DRN-3200116
The complaint
Mr C complained that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) didnt give him an 
account benefit he believed the account he had opened entitled him to receive.  
What happened
In July 2020, Mr C opened a new ISA. He took advantage of a special deal he had seen 
advertised in a financial magazine that could save new IISL subscribers up to £120 in 
service plan fees over the first year. 
Mr C thought he would be able to benefit from another account feature that additionally 
offered a free trade each month. 
So he was surprised and disappointed in February 2021 when IISL charged him £7.99 for a 
share dealing that he expected to be free of charge.   
When he complained about this to IISL, it said Mr C wasnt eligible for the free trade. It 
explained that customers received a free credit on the same day that their monthly charge 
was successfully taken. Mr C had signed up to a deal that exempted him from account fees 
for the first year, so it said he wouldnt receive the monthly free trading credit during that 
period. IISL confirmed that when he started paying fees (in August 2021) he would receive 
monthly trading credits. 
Mr C wasn't happy with this response so he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. 
He didnt think that IISL had unfairly applied the £7.99 charge. He explained his view that 
Mr C wasnt eligible to receive the full service package that IISL offered until he became a 
fully paid customer after the end of the introductory deal he had taken advantage of. 
So our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C said he didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. So 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr C feels strongly about this matter. But what he says isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. Theres information on our website which 
explains the Financial Ombudsman Service approach. I have to look at all the available 
information and decide what I think is fair and reasonable.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant to the outcome. I havent commented on everything Mr C has said during the course 
of this complaint where theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our investigator has 
said in response already. But I will deal with all the main points that have an impact on the 
outcome of his main complaint. And I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help 
explain how Ive reached my decision.
I've seen a copy of IISLs account information leaflet dated 22 November 2021. And I think 
its fair to assume this gives me a reasonable insight into the account features and charges 
that applied when Mr C opened his account with IISL. 
This says as follows:
How service plans work - In return for your monthly subscription, we look after your 
assets securely and give you a monthly credit worth £7.99. 
This clearly shows that, for the monthly fee, subscribers got one free trade. I understand 
Mr C thought the deal hed signed up with meant that hed have the benefit of not having to 
pay a monthly fee and hed still receive the free trade credit. 
Unfortunately, neither party can provide a copy of the advert and so Im unable to determine 
whether the offer explained the free trade exclusion when no monthly fee is paid. In these 
circumstances, I must give more weight to the evidence available which explains the trade is 
reliant on a monthly fee being paid.
And it follows that, as Mr C wasnt paying a monthly fee at the time, he wasnt eligible for and 
so didnt receive any monthly credit for a free trade.
The £7.99 fee is the advertised amount shown for the trade Mr C was charged for. So 
I havent seen enough overall to be able to say that IISL did anything wrong when it failed to 
match Mr Cs expectation that he wouldnt have to pay the £7.99 fee incurred. 
Its not in dispute that the deal Mr C signed up to offered him a potential saving of £9.99 per 
month in account fees. So I can see why he might have been tempted to take advantage of 
this. 
Taking everything into account, I cant fairly say that IISL has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
So this is why Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
Whilst this isnt the outcome Mr C is hoping for, I hope that setting things out this way is 
useful in explaining the conclusions Ive reached. 
 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman