DRN-4211054
The complaint
Mr T complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance (Oodle).
What happened
In April 2022 Mr T acquired an eight and half year old car with 97,000 miles on the odometer 
at a cost of £10,668. Mr T financed his purchase under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle.  
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr T undertook to make and 
advance payment of £400 followed by 53 monthly payments of £299.24 making a total 
repayable of £16,259.72 at an APR of 23.2%.
In December 2022 Oodle and the credit intermediary paid Mr T £330 (£165 each) for repairs 
he says he had to have undertaken on the car.
In April 2023 Mr T complained to Oodle that the engine had developed a fault and he had 
been advised by two separate garages that it would need to be replaced.
In May 2023 Oodle issued Mr T with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL 
Oodle said that in the absence of an independent report confirming the engine had a fault, or 
was developing a fault, at the point of sale it was satisfied it was under no obligation to 
compensate Mr T along the lines he was looking for.
Mr Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view and so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr T has very strong feelings about this complaint, and I can confirm Ive read and 
considered everything he has submitted. However, I trust that Mr T will not take the fact 
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are 
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Mr T acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Oodle is the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for dealing with complaints about 
their quality. Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements such as the one Mr T 
entered into. Under the agreement there is an implied term that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into 
account the description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. I think 
in this case those relevant circumstances include, but arent limited to, the age and mileage 
of the car and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general 
state and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
In Mr Ts case the car was used, with a cash price of £10,688. It had covered 97,000 miles 
and was approximately eight and half years old when he acquired it. So, the car had 
travelled a substantial distance and its reasonable to expect there to be some wear to it 
as a result. Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new car. As 
with any car, there is an expectation that there will be ongoing maintenance and upkeep 
costs. There are parts that will naturally wear over time, and its reasonable to expect these 
to be replaced. And with second-hand cars, its more likely parts will need to be replaced 
sooner or be worn faster than with a brand-new car. So Oodle wouldnt be responsible for 
anything that was due to normal wear and tear.
First, Ive considered if there was a fault with the car. Ive seen the two reports provided by 
Mr T, one from a garage that I will call H dated 16 March 2023 identifying a fault with the big 
end bearing and crankshaft and one from a garage that I will call P dated 28 March 2023 
identifying a fault with the little end bearing. This leads me to conclude that in March 2023 
there was indeed one or more faults with the car. So, Ive gone on to consider if the car was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T.
Neither report provided by Mr T says whether the identified faults were present or developing 
at the point of sale. Furthermore, in March 2023 Mr T had been in possession of the car for 
almost a year and had, based on Hs report, been able to add 5,000 miles to the odometer 
(or substantially more based on an invoice from P dated 17 October 2022). 
Given this and given that Mr Ts car passed its MOT on 12 April 2022 with no advisories, Im 
satisfied that on the balance of probabilities the faults with the car are ones that a 
reasonable person might expect to see with a car that is nine and half years old and which 
has travelled over 100,000 miles and are ones that are due to wear and tear rather than as a 
result of the car being of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. And this is regardless of 
whether the car has been serviced in line with the manufacturers standards or not.
So based on all the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr T was supplied with a car 
in April 2022 that was of unsatisfactory quality and Im satisfied that Oodle need do nothing 
further in respect of Mr Ts complaint.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman