DRN-3351735
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the refusal of a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy 
with U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance (UKI).
What happened
At the end of December 2020, Mr C made a claim under his policy with UKI, as he wanted to 
take tribunal proceedings against his employer. 
UKI initially accepted the claim and asked one of its panel of solicitors to assess the 
prospects of making a successful tribunal claim. The solicitors considered the various 
tribunal claims that might be possible, including disability discrimination and failure to make 
reasonable adjustments for Mr C. In February 2021, the solicitors said there were no 
reasonable prospects of any claim against Mr Cs employer succeeding and so the claim 
was not covered under the policy. 
Mr C was not happy with the solicitors assessment and asked to be able to use his own 
solicitors. In July 2021, he also made the second claim for cover to take proceedings against 
the organisation involved in his professional training, for refusing to extend the time for him 
to complete his training in accordance with the recommendations in his occupational health  
report.  Mr C also told UKI of some more recent issues with his employer. 
UKI said the legal assessment stood but also that the solicitors assessment had brought to 
light that Mr Cs employer had started its sickness policy process against Mr C on 24 
September 2020, two days before he took out the policy. UKI says the policy only covers 
claims arising out of events which occur during the period of insurance and as this started 
before the policy was taken out it is not covered for this reason. UKI also said the second 
claim was linked to the issue which started on in September 2020, as the occupational 
health report was obtained as part of that sickness management process. 
Mr C is very unhappy about this and says that no disciplinary process was instigated on 24 
September 2020. He also says the date of the insured event, is when his employer refused 
to provide reasonable adjustments in December 2020; and his second claim is not linked to 
this. I understand Mr C started legal proceedings and has been funding these himself. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied that UKI was entitled to refuse both the claims. 
Mr C does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
Mr C is unhappy about the second claim being considered at the same time as the complaint 
about the first claim, as he says they are not linked. He is also unhappy that the Investigator 
initially communicated to UKI that he was inclined to uphold his complaint. He says he was 
not told this at the time and didnt have an opportunity to comment on UKIs response. In any 
case UKI simply reiterated its position and the Investigator changed his mind, without any 
new information. 
Mr C also asked for additional time to provide further information. This has been granted and 
no further information has been provided.
Preliminary matters 
Mr C says the second claim is not against his employer and is a separate cause of action 
against a separate body. UKI disputes this. However, given there are two separate claims, 
potentially about separate proceedings against different respondents, it is not appropriate for 
me to address both claims in this decision, as potentially they could have different outcomes. 
If Mr C wants us to consider further the refusal of the second claim, it will be set up as a 
separate file. I am not making any finding about the handling and refusal of that claim in this 
decision which will only address the complaint about the refusal of the first claim.  
The Investigators initial assessment of the complaint he asked for further information from 
UKI about why it was refusing the second claim. The Investigator indicated that the 
information he had at that stage would suggest the second claim was not linked to the first 
and might therefore be covered. UKI responded and confirmed why it thought they were 
linked but also that, in any event, there would be no cover for a separate claim, as it would 
not amount to an employment dispute as the organisation involved was not Mr Cs employer. 
Based on this the Investigator then considered all the evidence and issued his formal 
assessment of the complaint. Exploratory communications such as this, before a formal 
assessment of the complaint, are part of our usual process. Either party can then appeal the 
Investigators assessment and ask for an Ombudsman to consider everything afresh, as     
Mr C has done here. An Ombudsmans final decision is the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is the first claim covered?
Mr Cs policy provides cover for legal expenses in pursuing various claims, including 
employment tribunal claims. As with all insurance policies, this is subject to various terms 
and conditions, including that: 
the date of incident is during a period cover was in force.
It also says: 
We dont cover claims arising from or relating to Incidents that begin before cover 
started.
And the policy defines the date of incident as being:
For civil cases, the date of the incident that leads to a claim. If more than one incident arises 
at different times from the same cause, the date of incident is the date of the first of these
incidents.
These terms are presented reasonably clearly in the policy and I do not consider that they 
are unusual or unfair. Most insurance is intended to cover unforeseen events so will normally 
only cover issues that arise during the period of cover. 
Mr C had been off sick from work. On 24 September 2020 a meeting took place with him 
about his sickness and I understand the employers attendance and sickness policy was discussed and stage 1 of that policy was initiated. This is not necessarily a disciplinary 
process but is a formal process, which Mr C was aware of before the start of the policy. 
I agree with UKI that this date would be reasonable deemed to be the date of incident 
relevant to the policy term above. I say this because, it is not the date of the legal cause of 
action that is relevant  so as Mr C has said he probably couldnt have taken proceedings 
against his employer in September 2020  - but it is the date of an incident, or the first in a 
series of incidents, which are related to or give rise to the claim. The claim is in relation to his 
treatment over his sickness record and how his employer handled his absence from work 
and getting him back to work. The instigation of the sickness procedure started on 24 
September 2020 and I am satisfied that his claim was related to that meeting. UKI is 
therefore entitled to refuse cover for the claim.  
While UKI initially paid for the legal assessment, I do not think it can be criticised for 
accepting the claim initially and not identifying this date earlier than it did. Mr C suggests that 
this was only used as a reason to refuse his claim as a result of his complaint about the 
solicitors assessment. The timing is not in dispute but I do not consider that there is any 
reason that UKI should be required to disregard the policy term set out above. The claim is 
not covered as it was related to a meeting with Mr Cs employer which started before the 
start of the policy. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman