DRN-3989356
The complaint
Mr S complains Al Rayan Bank PLC made changes to its digital banking that meant he was 
no longer able to access his account.
What happened
Mr S has an ISA with Al Rayan. He says he recently discovered that his account has been 
made dormant and hes been asked lots of questions and to provide lots of documentation in 
order to access his ISA  in part so he can transfer it elsewhere. Weve told Mr S that hell 
have to raise this as a separate complaint as its a new issue, so Im not going to deal with 
those issues in this decision.
Mr S says Al Rayan made changes to its digital banking in February 2020 following which its 
customers were told theyd have to authenticate  in order to access their account online  
using a smartphone app. Mr S says he owns a smartphone but for reasons hes given us he 
cant use apps and doesnt want to. He says Al Rayan told him in April 2020 that he could 
instead access his account using a hard token that it would provide. Mr S says Al Rayan 
told him hed been sent a hard token in the post, but he never received it. He complained to 
Al Rayan about being unable to access his account using his laptop in September 2020.
Al Rayan says it tried to speak to Mr S in October 2020 to understand why he was having 
problems accessing his account online. Al Rayan says that Mr S didnt want to speak to 
them and that it ultimately issued a final response saying that it couldnt do more without 
speaking to him. Al Rayan gave Mr S a number he could call to obtain a balance and obtain 
access to his account and said he could refer his complaint to us. So, thats what Mr S did.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and said that they thought Al Rayan 
could have done more, but then closed the complaint when we didnt hear back from Mr S 
for a while. They did so in May 2021.
Mr S got in touch with us recently and, as a result, we re-opened his complaint. Having done 
so, one of our investigators spoke to Mr S and contacted Al Rayan. They said that they 
thought Mr S had been caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience for which £100 in 
compensation was fair. But they also thought that Mr S could have done more when Al 
Rayan wanted to speak to him to understand why he was having problems. Mr S disagreed 
with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said his account had 
become dormant as a result of him not being able to access it online and that £100 didnt 
fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. He also said hed lost out on 
interest. So, Ive looked into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Al Rayan made changes to the way its customers accessed their accounts  it did so in 
order to implement strong customer authentication. The changes meant most of its 
customers using an app to authenticate themselves. That wasnt an option for Mr S as he 
has difficulty using apps  hes told us why  and didnt want to use them anyhow. For 
customers that dont own a mobile phone  either because they cant use one or, for 
example, live in an area with limited mobile reception  or who cant or dont want to use an 
app  as in Mr Ss case  Al Rayan offered an alternative, namely a hard token. Thats a 
piece of hardware  typically the size of a keyring  that generates random one-time 
passcodes that can then be used to authenticate.
Mr S says Al Rayan never sent him a hard token, but more importantly its clear that when 
he spoke to Al Rayan about how hed access his account online Mr S couldnt follow what he 
was being told. He says the agent he spoke to kept on using jargon, for example, and that 
he got nowhere even after having spent almost two hours speaking to Al Rayan. I accept 
this. And, in the circumstances, I agree that Al Rayan could and should have done more. 
There was, however, then a breakdown in communication for which it wouldnt be fair to hold 
Al Rayan solely responsible. Had that not happened, I think that Mr S would have been able 
to access his account  either online or over the phone, for example  much sooner.
Mr S has only recently contacted us and Al Rayan again. I accept that in the meantime hes 
not been receiving as good an interest rate as he could have done and that his account has 
also been made dormant. But for the reasons Ive just given, I agree with our investigator 
that it wouldnt be fair to hold Al Rayan responsible for either of these things.
Putting things right
Al Rayan has caused Mr S unnecessary distress and inconvenience and should pay him 
£100 in compensation for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Al Rayan Bank PLC to 
pay Mr S £100 in compensation in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman