DRN-4232939
The complaint
Mr L complains Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account. He would like his 
free night voucher and compensation.
What happened
The facts which led to Mr L bringing this complaint to our service are well known to both 
parties, so I am not repeating them in full here. 
In summary Mr L had a credit card account with Creation. For an annual fee the card 
provided points and a free hotel stay voucher given a qualifying spend of £10,000 a year. 
Creation gave Mr L 60 days notice of the closure of his account. Mr L complained to this 
service. Creation made an offer to Mr L to refund his pro rata fee as well as his credit 
balance. Mr L has had this refund. They said he didnt qualify for the hotel voucher as he had 
not reached the required spend. 
Our investigator thought the offer was fair but agreed that Mr L had spent a long-time 
chasing Creation to get the information he needed and awarded £50 compensation for 
Mr Ls inconvenience. Creation agreed. 
Mr L disagreed with the outcome and asked for a final decision, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Creation can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Ls account. The terms explain that Creation can close an account for any reason by 
giving 60 days notice. I understand this is disappointing for Mr L however, by providing the 
full notice period here I cant say Creation have acted unfairly.
Annual Fee
Creation have agreed to refund Mr L the pro rata fee for his card. Both Mr L and Creation 
have agreed this is fair in the circumstances and I agree.
Hotel voucher
Where Mr L and Creation disagree is in relation to the voucher. Mr L wants Creation to give 
him a voucher for a free night stay in a hotel. His argument is that he nearly achieved the 
necessary spend, he was less than £300 short, and he would have achieved the spend had 
the card not been withdrawn part way through the qualifying period. He has said that 
Creation should reduce the qualifying spend or alternatively that as he achieved 99% of the 
spend, he should be awarded 99% of the voucher. Mr L has also provided information as to 
the amount he has lost as a result of the voucher not being awarded. He has sent evidence 
that he has booked accommodation in a hotel abroad and he would have saved around 
£350.
I appreciate that Mr L is extremely disappointed at the loss of his hotel voucher. But Mr L 
hasnt accrued enough points to be entitled to a hotel voucher.  I can see that Creation are 
entitled to close the account with 60 days notice  Ive already said I think Creation have 
acted fairly. Mr L has said that withdrawing services and benefits is an unfair term and gives 
an imbalance of power. I know that Mr L is upset he missed out on the voucher, but Creation 
have given him 60 days notice of their intention to close his account  which is fair and in 
line with the account terms which Mr L agreed to. In addition, Creation dont have to give him 
notice of their intention to withdraw the card benefits. I also dont think withdrawing services 
or benefits is an unfair term, otherwise businesses wouldnt be able to withdraw from 
agreements with customers. Having said that I realise that the withdrawal of the benefits led 
to a detriment in this instance. Which is why Creation have offered a pro rata refund of the 
card fee. I know he will be disappointed, but Im satisfied that Creation havent acted unfairly 
here so I wont be asking them to do anything else.
The investigator awarded Mr L £50 compensation for failures of communication that Creation 
had admitted to in the FRL. Creation have agreed with this compensation. I have considered 
the amount of compensation and the circumstances, and Im satisfied £50 is a fair amount of 
compensation for the failures in communication, and I see no reason to change it. 
Putting things right
Creation have already paid Mr L the pro rata refund of his card fee. Mr L should receive £50 
for the failure in communications Creation has already accepted.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I partially uphold the complaint. I direct Creation Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr L £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman