DRN-3588755
The complaint
Mrs P says that she and her husband were mis-sold a timeshare. Because the purchase 
was funded in part with a payment on her credit card, issued by National Westminster Bank 
Plc, she says that she has a claim against the bank in the same way as she has a claim 
against the seller.
What happened
On 7 August 1999 Mr and Mrs P applied for membership of the Atlantic Leisure Club. Their 
application was approved, and they bought a one-week timeshare from Esmerelda Resorts 
Limited (described as the founder member) for a total of £6,208. Part of the purchase price 
- £2,500  was paid using Mrs Ps NatWest credit card. 
In July 2019 Mrs P contacted NatWest through her representatives. She said that she and 
Mr P had been misled into buying the timeshare. She therefore had claims against the bank 
under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She sought a full refund 
of the sale price plus interest at 8% a year. 
In particular, Mrs P mentioned the following matters:
She and Mr P had been told they were buying an investment product.
The sales process was a lengthy and stressful one. 
Properties were not available as they had been told they would be. 
Management fees had risen more than they had been led to believe would be the case.
NatWest did not accept that it had any liability. It said that a claim could not be brought more 
than six years after the sale. In this case, that meant that any claim should have been 
brought by no later than 2005.    
Mrs P referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld  for the same 
reason as the bank. Mrs P did not accept that assessment, however, and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, statements made by a supplier in relation to a 
transaction financed or proposed to be financed under pre-existing arrangements between a 
credit provider and the supplier are deemed to be made as agent for the creditor.  
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier. 
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Mastercard, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements. I am satisfied there 
were such arrangements here.
Mrs Ps primary case is that she has a claim for misrepresentation against H. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation or on breach of contract cannot generally be brought after six years from 
the date on which the cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced 
Mrs P into buying the timeshare were made on or before 29 September 1999, when the card 
payment was taken. Mr and Mrs P would have found out quite quickly if they were not 
getting what they paid for. 
Mrs P did not however raise any complaint until around July 2019, nearly 20 years after the 
sale. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against 
Esmerelda Resorts for misrepresentation or for breach of contract would be outside the time 
limit in the Limitation Act. 
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
Sections 140A to 140D came into force on 6 April 2007, more than seven years after the 
timeshare sale. They replaced similar, but not identical, provisions under sections 137 to 
140, which dealt with extortionate credit bargains. I do not believe however that a court is 
likely to make an order under either regime. The credit card account was not opened as a 
result of anything connected with the sale of the timeshare.
I should stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mrs P could bring a claim against 
Esmerelda Holdings or whether she has a claim under section 56 or section 75. They are 
however legal provisions that I must take into account in deciding what, in my opinion, is fair 
and reasonable.
Nor do I have power to make an order under section 140B  that is reserved to the courts. 
Again, though, I must have regard to the relevant provisions of the Consumer Credit Act in 
deciding what I think is fair. I am satisfied however that the bank has treated Mrs P fairly in 
this case.  My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require National Westminster Bank Plc 
to take any further steps to resolve Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman