DRN-3623420
The complaint
Mr C and Miss M have complained about poor customer service and lack of communication 
by Holbrook Property Finance Limited in relation to a mortgage application. They are also 
dissatisfied about the way their complaint was handled.
To settle the complaint, Mr C and Miss M would like Holbrook to respond in full to all the 
points raised in the compliant, rather than cherry pick, and to receive redress to 
compensate them for the egotistical way Holbrook has behaved, and for wasted time and 
stress. 
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in far less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence 
between the parties, and in the investigators letters dated 21 January 2022 and 15 July 
2022. 
All parties have a copy of that letter, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I 
will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are 
published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr C and Miss 
M being identified. 
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to over a thousand pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some 
instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome.
I must also explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both 
consumers and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions which Mr C and Miss M would 
like answered to their satisfaction, its not my role to put those questions to Holbrook or for 
us to act as a representative or go-between on this case.
Briefly, Mr C and Miss M were moving home. They consulted Holbrook for mortgage advice, 
but werent happy with the service they received. They say incorrect information was put on 
an application form, in relation to employment status and in respect of earnings. They were 
also unhappy that Holbrook conducted hard credit searches which showed on their credit 
histories. Mr C and Miss M were also dissatisfied about the level of communication from 
Holbrook, saying they had to chase Holbrook multiple times for updates and to correct 
mistakes that were made. They felt the mortgage adviser they were dealing with wasnt 
sufficiently competent to deal with the application. Furthermore, after they complained, they 
dont feel Holbrook properly addressed their concerns.
Ultimately Mr C and Miss M went to another broker, which arranged a mortgage for them.
Holbrook didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr C and Miss M brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. After reviewing what had happened, and after issuing two long letters 
setting out his findings, our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was 
satisfied the employment status was correct and that, although Holbrook had mistakenly put 
net profits on an application as £16,800 rather than a correct amount of £15,800, the 
proposed lender had confirmed this wouldnt affect the lending decision. The investigator 
also noted that Miss M had confirmed that £16,800 was the correct figure.
The investigator was also satisfied that Holbrook hadnt carried out any credit searches, but 
that these were done by the potential lenders. Ultimately it was up to lenders to decide 
whether or not to offer a mortgage, and so the investigator couldnt hold Holbrook 
responsible for the lending decisions made by the lenders.
The investigator also explained that Holbrook had eight weeks to respond to a complaint and 
he was satisfied Holbrook had responded appropriately to the complaint.
Mr C and Miss M didnt agree with the investigators findings, and asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, Im not going to address each and every point Mr C and Miss M have 
complained about; the investigator went through the transaction in detail in his letters of 
21 January 2022 and 15 July 2022. Rather, I have looked at the application and the service 
provided as a whole, in order to determine whether or not any redress is justified. But I 
confirm Ive read and taken note of everything Mr C and Miss M and Holbrook have 
provided.
Having done so, Im not persuaded, other than a small error, that Holbrook has done 
anything wrong. Holbrook has acknowledged that an incorrect figure was put on an 
application, where net profits of £16,800 was inserted rather than £15,800. However, I also 
note that Miss M confirmed in an email that the net profits were £16,800, so I can see where 
the confusion arose. Im satisfied that Holbrook was entitled to rely on the information 
provided by Mr C and Miss M as being correct. If that information wasnt accurate, that 
wasnt Holbrooks fault.Other than that, Im unable to identify any errors by Holbrook. Im satisfied Holbrook didnt 
run any credit checks, and neither Mr C nor Miss M has been able to provide this service 
with evidence that it did. It would be unusual for a mortgage broker to run a hard credit 
check, as this is something lenders usually do.
Im also satisfied that, when one lender wasnt prepared to lend, Holbrook explained that this 
could be appealed. It was ultimately up to the lender to decide whether or not to offer a 
mortgage and, if so, how much. A second lender also wasnt prepared to lend, and the fact 
that Mr C and Miss M were ultimately able to obtain a mortgage with that same lender via 
another broker doesnt mean that Holbrook did anything wrong on their application. 
The mortgage lenders Holbrook sourced were appropriate to meet the circumstances and 
needs of Mr C and Miss M. In addition, the timescale over which these events transpired 
wasnt excessive, given that it was necessary to apply to a second lender when the first 
lender wasnt able to offer the mortgage required, even after an appeal.
In relation to the complaint about poor communication, Im not persuaded that Holbrooks 
service fell short here. I think the response times from Holbrook to emails sent by Mr C and 
Miss M were good, and Holbrook also kept Mr C and Miss M updated about what was 
happening. Overall, Im not persuaded Holbrook failed properly to communicate with Mr C 
and Miss M about their application.
Businesses are allowed, as the investigator explained, eight weeks to respond to a 
complaint. Holbrook responded swiftly to the complaint, within two days, and so well within 
that timescale. Once a final response letter had been issued, if they were unhappy with what 
Holbrook had said, Mr C and Miss M then had the option to refer their complaint to our 
service within six months. They did so four days after the final response was sent. 
Mr C and Miss M have complained about the way Holbrook dealt with their complaint. 
However, complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity, and so its not covered by our rules. 
Therefore, even though Mr C and Miss M think Holbrooks handling of their complaint fell 
short of their expectations, its not something I am able to comment on.
Conclusions
Moving home is a stressful experience, and I fully understand  and can see from what 
theyve told us  that Mr C and Miss M were completely invested in making sure things went 
smoothly. But having reviewed everything that happened in detail on the basis of the 
evidence, other than one small error where Holbrook relied on incorrect information provided 
by Mr C and Miss M and which had no effect on their application, I am not persuaded 
Holbrook did anything wrong, either in its administration of the application or in its 
communication with Mr C and Miss M. 
My final decision
I understand Mr C and Miss M will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman