DRN-2028400
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank) mis-sold 
them a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a 
joint mortgage in 2001.
 
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C say the policy was mis-sold. They paid £56.56 per month and it covered Mr 
C only for accident, sickness and unemployment.
 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Cs and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Our adjudicator 
said that as Mr C was self-employed, the circumstances when he could make a claim were 
quite limited. Our adjudicator felt that Northern Bank shouldnt have recommended the policy 
without pointing out that it may not meet all of Mr Cs and Mrs Cs needs.
 
Northern Bank didnt agree with our adjudicators view. So this complaint has been passed 
to me to decide how it should be settled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
 
Ive considered what Northern Bank has said but Ive still decided to uphold Mr Cs and Mrs 
Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Northern Bank recommended the policy to Mr C and Mrs C, but I dont think it was suitable 
for them. And I dont think Northern Bank clearly pointed this out to them. I agree with the 
adjudicator that theres not enough information to show that Northern Bank explained how 
the policy terms and conditions would apply to Mr Cs and Mrs Cs employment 
circumstances. And I think its likely that better information about the policy terms would 
have put Mr C and Mrs C off having PPI.
 
Heres why I say this. Mr C told us he had been self-employed as a farmer for 10 years at 
the time of the sale.
 
Looking at the policy document Northern Bank has provided, I think it would have been more 
difficult for Mr C to make a claim (as a self-employed person under these policy terms) than 
it would have been for an employee. Thats because Mr C and Mrs C wouldnt have been 
able to receive any payment from their business if he was too ill to work, In other words, 
because he was a self-employed person, it looks like Mr C would have had to wait until his 
business had failed completely and was making no money at all before making a claim. I 
think this is an onerous term and unlikely to happen based on his job at the time. So, I think 
the policy terms put him at a disadvantage when it came to making a successful claim under 
the policy. 
 
Ive taken into account all of Northern Banks comments. Ive noted that this policy was sold 
at a meeting and Northern Bank says its advisor presented the policy as optional at the time 
of sale and made a recommendation for the cover based on Mr Cs and Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time.
 
But as an advised sale, the onus was on Northern Bank to draw Mr Cs and Mrs Cs 
attention to features of the cover that impacted on their particular situation. I cant see 
enough information to persuade me that Northern Bank did enough to make clear to Mr C 
and Mrs C significant policy details that affected them.
 
So what Northern Bank says doesnt change my conclusion. I think it likely Mr C and Mrs C 
wouldnt have bought the policy if theyd understood its impact on their particular 
circumstances. 
So, I think Mr C and Mrs C has lost out and Northern Bank needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
Northern Bank Limited should put Mr C and Mrs C in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI.
 
I understand the policy is already cancelled so Northern Bank Limited should:
 
 Pay back to Mr C and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the PPI
 
 Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
 
 If Mr C and Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Northern Bank Limited 
can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Northern Bank Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Northern Bank Limited must give Mr C and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and I direct Northern Bank Limited to 
take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman