DRN-2435444
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the settlement figure provided to him by Everyday Lending Limited 
(Everyday), when he wanted to pay off a personal loan early. He feels the figure calculated 
was incorrect.
What happened
In September 2018 Everyday agreed to lend Mr C £10,000. The agreement Mr C signed was 
for 60 months, with a repayment amount of £395.52 a month. Mr C paid 13 monthly 
payments of this amount to Everyday  and then let it know hed like to settle the loan early.
Because of this, Everyday provided Mr C with details of the early settlement figure. It said 
Mr C would need to repay £9,768.95 to settle the loan. This figure was worked out as 
follows;
18,589.44  this would have been the amount payable under the loan agreement if it 
was still paid monthly, for the full 60 months;
Minus a rebate of £8,820.49 for the fact the loan was being settled early.
Mr C felt the settlement amount provided was too high. In Everydays final response to Mr 
Cs concerns, it said that it had calculated the early settlement figure correctly, and in line 
with the relevant laws and regulations. It also said the early settlement terms were made 
clear in the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr C took out. So, Everyday said it hadnt 
done anything wrong.
Everyday went on to say that in November 2019, after receiving the early settlement figure, 
Mr C paid it £8,820.49. But this wasnt the right figure to pay the loan off  he should have 
paid the £9,768.95 detailed. As there was a shortfall in the settlement of the loan, it said if Mr 
C still wanted to settle the loan early, he could ask for a new settlement figure for the 
remainder of the loan, and it would provide this.
Mr C remained unhappy with Everydays response. He noted that in Everydays explanation 
of the loan settlement, it had referenced 58 days worth of interest that he had to pay. Mr C 
said he wasnt told of this interest when he took out the loan agreement, so he didnt think it 
was fair for Everyday to say this was payable.
Because Mr C remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered Mr Cs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that Everyday had calculated the early settlement figure as it was supposed to. Our 
investigator also noted that he could see the information Everyday had provided about 58 
days of interest had caused confusion. But he was satisfied the total settlement figure that 
had been given to Mr C was the right one.
Mr C didnt agree. Mr C said he had been told when he first took out the loan agreement, 
that he would not be charged to settle the loan early. And, he felt the 58 days interest 
mentioned above, was a charge for this, that Everyday was saying it was entitled to ask Mr 
C to pay. Mr C said the amount he had paid Everyday of £8,820.49 was enough to settle the 
loan, minus the 58 days interest he felt he should not have to pay.
Because Mr C didnt agree, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Ive reviewed Mr Cs signed loan agreement  to see what was agreed at the time the 
borrowing was taken. From doing this, I can see that Mr C took out a £10,000 loan, over a 
60-month period  with the total amount payable to Everyday being £23,731.20, if he paid 
the money back over the 60 months.
The terms of the loan agreement also discussed early settlement as an option. These terms 
can be found at clause 10 of the loan agreement. This says that Mr C is entitled to repay his 
loan early  and once Mr C let it know of his intention to repay early, in writing, Everyday 
would need to calculate the early repayment figure  taking into account the statutory rebate 
Mr C may be entitled to. 
So, Ive needed to consider whether, when Everyday provided Mr C with the early settlement 
figure, it provided the settlement amount payable in line with the above, as well as the 
relevant law and regulations. And, having looked at the evidence provided to me, Im 
satisfied Everyday did do this.
Mr C did write to Everyday, letting it know of his intention to settle the loan early. And at that 
point Everyday added up the loan payments Mr C had already paid to it, in the 13 months in 
which he was paying the amount monthly.  
And it worked out the amount Mr C had left to pay under the agreement, if this was paid 
monthly until the end of the loan term. The amount that would have been left to pay, if Mr C 
kept paying the balance off monthly would have been £18,585.44. 
But, as Mr C was looking to pay the loan off early, Everyday needed to calculate a statutory 
rebate that was due to Mr C. 
To explain, a rebate is to take into account the interest that no longer needs to be paid 
because the loan is being settled early. To be clear, it isnt that no interest needs to be paid 
on the loan at all. Interest does need to be paid, as per the loan agreement, whilst it is 
running. But, because the loan is being repaid early, interest that will have been calculated 
to be paid over the full 60 months wont be due  because the loan agreement is no longer in 
place. The only interest due would be that payable before the loan is settled.
The Consumer Credit (Early settlement) Regulations 2004 provides a mathematical formula 
to work out what any rebate would be. It makes sure borrowers, such as Mr C, dont pay 
back more than they need to.
The above amount of £18,585.44 owed if the loan had gone to full term, will have included 
interest on the original borrowing. And, so, Everyday needed to calculate how much of what 
was left to pay was interest, that Mr C would need longer need to pay. Everyday worked this 
rebate out to be £8,820.49. That left Mr C with £9,768.95 to pay.I appreciate Mr C feels the above amount is incorrect. But Everyday has explained it 
calculated the early settlement figure using the above method, detailed in the regulations, as 
I would have expected it to do. And, I cant see any evidence to suggest this wasnt how it 
worked the settlement amount out. Given this, Im satisfied Everyday acted reasonably in the 
early settlement figure it told Mr C he would need to pay.  
Mr C has explained that Everyday mentioned a payment of 58 days interest when providing 
him with the early settlement figure. I can see that when Everyday initially gave the 
settlement figure to Mr C, it didnt explain the settlement figure like this. But in its final 
response letter then mentioned 58 days interest. I do think this caused some confusion  
and I can understand why. But Im satisfied Everyday wasnt making an additional charge in 
respect of settling his loan early. So, Im satisfied this doesnt change the outcome of Mr Cs 
complaint.
As above, I havent seen anything that makes me think the early settlement figure wasnt 
calculated using the statutory method detailed earlier in my decision. I think Everyday was 
looking to explain to Mr C that until the settlement figure was paid, the loan would still be 
accruing interest. But, once settlement, no more interest was being charged. 
Mr C did pay a lump sum off the loan  he paid £8,820.49. But, as this wasnt the right 
amount to settle the loan, Im satisfied there is still an outstanding balance to be paid. The 
early settlement figure of £9,768.95 expired in December 2020 (as it took into account the 
balance of the loan at that time). And so, should Mr C still wish to repay the loan early, he 
will need to ask for a further settlement figure.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont 
require Everyday Lending Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman