DRN-1694984
The complaint
Mr P complains that the car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Service (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2017 Mr P acquired a new car via a four-year hire purchase agreement. In 
February 2018 Mr P reported to his local manufacturer approved garage that the car was 
misfiring, and that the demister had to be extremely hot in order to work. The car was looked 
at under its warranty, but the garage was unable to replicate the faults.
However, in March 2018, Mr P took the car back to the garage due to a noise it was making 
which was coming from the brakes. The garage found that the discs in the rear brakes were 
corroded and repairs were carried out under the warranty.
In May 2018 Mr P again returned to the garage as the car was juddering when pulling off 
and the rear brakes were squealing. The garage confirmed the juddering and an update was 
carried out. The rear brakes were found to be corroded and new discs and pads were fitted.
In September 2018 the radio and Bluetooth started to randomly drop, so Mr P returned to the 
garage. Four updates were confirmed as being required.
Two days later Mr P complained that the car was slowing down on slip roads and there was 
an issue with gear changes. The car was inspected, and further updates were required.
In November 2018 Mr P contacted BMWFS and complained that the car was making a noise 
when reversing, and he also told it that the car had required several early repairs. He said he 
now wanted to reject it.
BMWFS disagreed that Mr P could reject the car. It said that he had the car in his 
possession for one year and hadnt informed either it, or the broker, that he had been having 
problems with the car. BMWFS said that it was for Mr P to prove that the current faults with 
the car had been present at the point of sale.
In January 2019 Mr P reported that the cars alarm kept going off randomly and, at this point, 
the retailer did offer to buy the car back. However, Mr P declined to sell the car back as the 
dealerships offer would have left a significant shortfall on the settlement amount under the 
agreement. Mr P said he wanted to reject the car.
In June 2019 the car was back at the garage as Mr P was experiencing issues with the 
steering, and a strong smell of fumes when applying the brakes. He says he was advised by 
the garage not to drive the car. Mr P says the car has now been off the road since October 
2019.
Mr P was unhappy at BMWFSs view that he couldnt reject the car and so he complained to 
this service. Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She said 
she didnt think the car had been of satisfactory quality form the point of sale.
Our investigator said that there had first been issues with the car four months after Mr P had 
acquired it. After this repair there had followed a number of visits to the garage for various 
faults, which had included further repairs to the rear brakes. She said that a new car would 
reasonably be expected to be fault free and not require repair and maintenance for some 
time. She also said it appeared that the root cause of the problem with the brakes didnt 
appear to have been identified.
Our investigator said it would be fair for Mr P to reject the car; for the agreement to be 
cancelled with nothing further to pay; the deposit with interest to be repaid; any payments 
made since October 2019 to be reimbursed and for Mr P to be compensated by receiving a 
reimbursement of one months payment for having to deal with the faulty car.
MBFS didnt agree with our investigators view. It said Mr P hadnt report any faults with the 
car to itself until after a year had passed from the point of sale, that repairs had been 
accepted by Mr P from another garage, but the dealership hadnt had an opportunity to 
investigate and that, as the issues with the car in September 2018 were different, proof was 
required these would have been present at the point of sale.
As the parties didnt agree the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When  looking  at this complaint  I need  to have  regard  to the relevant  law and 
regulations,  but I am not bound  by them  when  I consider  what  is fair and 
reasonable.
As the hire purchase  agreement  entered  into by Mr P is a regulated  consumer  
credit  agreement  this service  is able to consider  complaints  relating  to it. 
BMWFS  is also the supplier  of the goods  under  this type of agreement,  and 
responsible  for a complaint  about  their quality.
Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  there  is an implied  term that when  goods  are 
supplied  "the quality  of the goods  is satisfactory".  The relevant  law says  that the 
quality  of the goods  is satisfactory  if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable  
person  would  consider  satisfactory,  taking  into account  any description  of the 
goods,  price  and all other  relevant  circumstances.
The relevant  law also says  that the quality  of the goods  includes  their general  state  
and condition,  and other  things  like their fitness  for purpose,  appearance  and 
finish,  freedom  from minor  defects,  safety,  and durability  can be aspects  of the 
quality  of the goods.
Here,  the car was new,  so I think  that a reasonable  person  would  have  expected  the 
car to be fault free and that it would  be durable,  and that issues  with repair  and 
maintenance  wouldnt  arise  for a reasonable  period  of time.
BMWFS  says  that as Mr P complained  to it after he had the car for 12 months  and, as 
the issues  with the car have  been  varied,  he needs  to show  that any current  faults  
with the car were  present  or developing  at the point  of sale.  While  I appreciate  there  
is no independent  inspection  of the car I have  seen  the various  Job Cards  created  
each  time the car was taken  to the garage  for investigation.  And I think  that its fair to look at the issues  with the car as a whole  rather  than individually,  although  I also think  
there  is evidence  that there  is a fault with the rear brakes  that doesnt  appear  to have  
been  resolved  yet.
Looking  at the evidence  I dont  think  a reasonable  person  would  have  expected  this 
number  of issues  to arise  with a new car in this space  of time.So,  I dont  think  it can 
be reasonably  said that the car is durable.  I think  the multiple  investigations  for the 
problems  Mr P has suffered  with the car, which  have  led to repairs  and updates,  
means  that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of sale.
It isnt disputed  that Mr P didnt  take the car back  to the retailing  dealership.  He says  
this was due to the distance  between  his home  and that garage.  However,  Mr P did 
take the car to a manufacturer  approved  garage  for the car to be looked  at under  its 
warranty.  Ive also seen  that the head  office  of the manufacturer  was aware  of the 
problems  Mr P was experiencing  with the car. In these  circumstances,  Im not 
suprised  that Mr P didnt  keep  BMWFS  and the dealership  in the loop.  And while  I 
appreciate  this means  the retailing  dealership  hasnt  had an opportunity  to see the car 
I dont  think  that means  its unfair  for Mr P to now reject  it. The car was investigated  
by engineers  that specialise  in that particular  make  and so I think  it very unlikely  that 
the dealership  would  have  reached  any different  conclusions.  
Mr P says  that he stopped  using  the car from October  2019  as he considered  it 
unsafe  to do so. Ive seen  that he had use of the car prior to that point.  Mr P also says  
he was advised  not to use it after it went  into the garage  in June  2019.  I think  that as 
the car was exhibiting  issues  with its brakes  and steering,  including  a smell  of fumes,  
that the decision  not to use the car was reasonable.  There  had been  ongoing  
problems  with the cars  brakes  and so I think  most  people  would  have  been  
concerned  about  safety.
So, for the reasons  given  above,  Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint.
Putting things right
I think its fair for Mr P to reject the car and for BMWFS to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr P
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Reimburse Mr P his deposit together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement
Reimburse Mr P any monthly payments made under the agreement since October 
2019, together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
until the date settlement
Pay Mr P the equivalent of one months payment under the agreement as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience of having to deal with the faulty car
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ps credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Im asking BMW Financial 
Service (GB) Limited to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr P
End the agreement with nothing further to payReimburse Mr P his deposit together with interest at the yearly rate of 8%simple from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement
Reimburse Mr P any monthly payments made under the agreement since October 
2019, together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
until the date settlement
Pay Mr P the equivalent of one months payment under the agreement as 
compensations for the distress and inconvenience of having to deal with the faulty 
car
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ps credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 03 November 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman