DRN-3582372
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted his account and withheld his funds. Hed 
like his funds released and compensation for the impact on him. 
What happened
Mr G had an account with HSBC. 
On 14 May 2021 HSBC put a block on Mr Gs account after a credit from a third party Ill call 
H. 
HSBC asked Mr G for evidence of the credit, and on 18 May 2021 Mr G supplied his 
documentation. But, the bank wasnt satisfied with the evidence supplied by Mr G. So held 
on to his funds and kept his account restricted. 
Mr G complained to HSBC about the withholding of his funds. He explained that it was 
causing him significant hardship, he needed the funds to pay for a new property and it was 
causing him stress. 
HSBC reviewed Mr Gs complaint  but didnt uphold it. They explained theyd acted fairly in 
restricting his account and withholding his funds. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with their response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into his complaint. HSBC explained theyd made an offer of 
£50 compensation. But our investigator didnt think this was fair, and they thought HSBC 
should do more. They thought HSBC had sufficient evidence to show Mr Gs funds should 
have been released to him by 15 August 2021. And they should pay 8% from 15 August 
2021 to the date of release. Our investigator also thought the service provided to Mr G by 
HSBC during the account restriction wasnt what theyd expect. So, they should also pay him 
£300 compensation. 
Mr G accepted our investigators outcome, but HSBC didnt confirm their position. However, 
on 26 July 2022 HSBC issued a cheque to Mr G providing him the balance of his account. 
But the bank didnt accept the other directions in our investigators view. 
As HSBC havent accepted its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered HSBCs actions in blocking Mr Gs account. HSBCs terms are clear in 
detailing their ability to review accounts and suspend them when necessary  and I think 
they initially followed these terms and conditions fairly. However, although I agree HSBC 
were entitled to review Mr Gs account I need to think about whether the review was 
completed as quickly as Id expect.
HSBC blocked Mr Gs account on 14 May 2021, and he provided evidence on 18 May 2021. 
But, HSBC didnt contact H until 1 July 2021. And after this they failed to chase up the third 
party to establish whether Mr G was entitled to his funds. This led to Mr Gs funds not being 
released to him until July 2022. I think that HSBC could have completed Mr Gs review much 
more quickly. I say this because Id have expected them to have contacted H soon after 
receiving the evidence on 18 May 2021  and not wait until 1 July 2021. And I dont think its 
reasonable for HSBC to fail to ask H for updates once the information was provided. 
Im satisfied, as our investigator argued, that HSBC should have completed the review of 
Mr Gs account within two months, and therefore Mr Gs funds should have been provided to 
him by 15 August 2021. I also think the length of time Mr Gs funds were withheld beyond 
15 August 2021 caused Mr G significant inconvenience and anxiety  including substantial 
worry about whether his funds would be returned to him.  
Ive moved on to consider the communication HSBC had with Mr G during the account 
review  and whether they were clear in explaining to Mr G what they expected from him and 
the impact on his account activity. And Im afraid I think HSBC could have been much 
clearer in their communication with Mr G. 
Ive firstly considered HSBCs inconsistency in the advice they gave Mr G about whether his 
direct debits would be processed. HSBC have explained that Mr Gs direct debits were 
blocked from 14 May 2021 onwards  and they made this clear in a letter to Mr G on 
2 June 2021. But, prior to this letter they told Mr G on more than one occasion, over the 
phone, that his direct debits would successfully be processed. I appreciate that Mr G had 
several conversations with different customer service agents at HSBC, which 
understandably led to some inconsistencies in information provided. But, whether his direct 
debits will be paid was something very important to Mr G  and its something Id expect 
HSBC to get right. Although the failure of the direct debits to go through didnt cause Mr G 
direct financial loss, he was caused inconvenience and stress from being required to make 
new arrangements to pay them in a short timeframe. And this could have been avoided if 
HSBC notified Mr G sooner that his direct debits wouldnt successfully go through. 
Ive also thought about whether HSBC were clear in asking Mr G what evidence he needed 
to supply, and whether hed provided everything that was required. HSBC accept that Mr G 
provided the documents requested to a local branch on 18 May 2021. Ive listened to a 
phone call Mr G had with HSBC on 2 June 2021 during which they advised Mr G he needed 
to attend a branch and provide further documents. However, this wasnt in fact the case. And 
Mr G had already supplied everything they needed. Im satisfied this caused Mr G further 
anxiety, in being concerned that the documents hadnt been reviewed appropriately. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think HSBC should have reviewed Mr Gs account 
more quickly, and by the 15 August 2021 at the latest. I therefore think they should pay Mr G 
8% on the funds restricted from 15 August 2021 to when they were returned on 
26 July 2022.
Im satisfied that the bank caused Mr G anxiety and inconvenience in holding on to the funds 
after 15 August 2021. And they caused additional inconvenience through poor 
communication, including asking Mr G to provide documents hed already given to them and 
giving inconsistent advice on the status of his direct debuts. Ill be directing HSBC to 
compensate Mr G £300 for the impact caused to him. My final decision
My final decision is I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr G 8% on the £6,441.65 from 15 August 2021 to 26 July 2022
Pay Mr G £300 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman