DRN-4205768
The complaint
Mr E complains West Bay Insurance Plc charged him an unfair premium for his motor 
insurance.
What happened
Mr Es vehicle was insured by West Bay.  He complains it charged him an unfairly high 
premium by incorrectly including a claim when setting his premiums. 
In October 2022 West Bay responded to a complaint. It didnt accept it had overcharged 
Mr E. It said he had received the cheapest price available across its products. In December 
2022 it provided a further complaint response. It apologised for a claim record being set up 
in error  and for Mr E having to chase up its removal from an industry claims database. 
West Bay confirmed the claim had now been removed. It said Mr E provided with 
confirmation to provide to his new insurer. It paid him £125 compensation. 
Mr E accepted the compensation, but feels he suffered a financial loss. He says his premium 
unfairly increased from about £90 per month to £140, at his April 2022 renewal, because 
West Bay unfairly factored in the incorrect claim record. 
Our investigator didnt ask West Bay to do anything differently. She wasnt persuaded it had 
included the incorrect claim record wrong when setting Mr Es premiums. He didnt accept 
that outcome, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr E and West Bay have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be 
key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided.
West Bay says the claim wasnt included in the premium. Its provided its records of the 
claims that were factored in when setting the premium. Im satisfied none of the three are the 
disputed claim. West Bays also provided the statement of fact from the renewal. Again this 
doesnt refer to the disputed claim.  Ive considered everything provided but Im not 
persuaded the claim was a factor when West Bay set the premium. 
I accept Mr Es frustrated as he went on to find cheaper cover with a different insurer. 
However, that doesnt necessarily mean West Bay had been unfairly taking the disputed 
claim into account. Insurers take different factors into account and weigh risks in their own 
way. So different insurers often offer very different premiums to the same policyholder and 
vehicle. 
Mr E says he accepted the £125 compensation for poor service relating to the removal of the 
claim record from the database. So I havent considered if that was a fair amount to 
recognise the distress inconvenience caused to him by that issue. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman