DRN-3827533
The complaint
Mr S complains that esure Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance
policy.
Where I refer to esure, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include claims-
handlers and others insofar as I hold esure responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a saloon car, first registered in 2010.
For the year from late October 2021, Mr S had the car insured on a comprehensive policy
with esure.
By the early summer of 2022, the car had a recorded mileage of about 173,000 miles.
Unfortunately, a third partys lorry hit and damaged the nearside of the car. Mr S contacted
esure.
Later, esure got a report on the accident damage to the nearside rear door and wheel arch
and including the wheel. Based on that report, esure said the car was a total loss. According
to esure, the pre-accident valuation had been £3,138.00 less £138.00 for pre-existing
damage, that is £3,000.00.
Mr S complained to esure that it was under-valuing his car. By a final response, esure turned
down the complaint. It said the pre-existing damage was £276.00 but it had deducted
£138.00 (half of £276.000). It said it was sending a cheque for £3,000.00 less the policy
excess.
Mr S brought his complaint to us in early August 2022. He added a complaint that esure had
told him incorrectly that the nearside rear wheel was buckled and needed to be replaced. He
told us that the wheel wasnt buckled. He told us that he had got the car returned to him. He
told us that he had put a new tyre on the wheel it and it was back on the car. He said that he
was still driving the car with damage on one side. 
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that
the valuation of £3,138.00 was fair but that the deduction of £138.00 was unfair. She
recommended that esure should pay Mr S £138.00.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S  
and to esure on 8 November 2022. I summarise my findings:
The investigator had sought to look separately at the valuation of the vehicle and the 
deduction for pre-existing damage. But Id looked at the overall valuation net of the 
deduction.
The net figure of £3,000.00 was within the range of the trade guide figures (and 
higher than two of them). So I wasnt minded to conclude that esures valuation 
treated Mr S unfairly.
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from esure, my provisional decision was that 
I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more 
in response to this complaint.
Mr S disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
The car does not have any offside damage.
The prices used to value are not what someone would pay.
The value offered already contained the cost to him for keeping the car.
He has still had no payment.
esure hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules. The effect of one of those rules is that a consumer must first have made the
complaint to the regulated financial firm and waited for up to eight weeks for a final response
to that complaint before we can investigate it.
When an insurer is assessing the pre-accident market value of a car, we expect the insurer
to use the retail figures published in the trade guides. We expect the insurer to take into
account the condition of the car before the accident.
If the car was carrying old damage, then we would expect the insurer to take that into
account. But in the case of an older vehicle, we take the view that minor damage often goes
unrepaired, so its not fair to deduct the whole of the estimated cost of repair from the value
of the car.
We usually find the trade guides are persuasive evidence because they are based on
research of likely selling prices. advertisements are less persuasive because they often
contain asking prices that are higher than negotiated selling prices.
The esure policy terms included the following:
Things you need to know
We will decide which method we use to settle your claim.
If we settle your claim as a total loss, the car will become our property.

We wont pay more than the market value of your car at the time of loss, less the total 
excess payable
The policy terms said that esure would provide a courtesy car unless and until esure decided 
the insured car was a total loss. I havent seen any evidence that Mr S complained to esure 
that it should pay him in lieu of the cost of a courtesy car. But he accepted the courtesy car. I would expect esure or the car rental company to ask the third party or his insurers to 
reimburse the cost of the courtesy car for the two weeks Mr S had it. Similarly, I would 
expect esure to ask the third party or his insurers to reimburse its outlay to Mr S.
Ive noted the make, model, age, specification and mileage of Mr Ss car.
Ive looked at Mr Ss evidence of the value of his car.
For a vehicle like his at the time of the accident, Ive seen retail figures in the trade guides as
follows:
Cazoo £2,768.00
Glass £2,930.00
CAP £3,495.00
I find Mr Ss evidence less persuasive than the trade guides.
From the photographs taken after the accident, I see that the accident caused damage to the
nearside rear door and wheel-arch and wheel. One of the photographs shows the wheel
removed from the vehicle and without a tyre.
On balance, I accept that Mr S complained to esure that it shouldnt have said the wheel was
buckled and included the cost of a replacement in its assessment that the car was beyond
economic repair.
From the photographs, I find that the nearside rear wheel was badly damaged in the 
accident. I dont find that esure treated Mr S unfairly by including the cost of a replacement
wheel in in its assessment that the car was beyond economic repair.
From the photographs taken after the accident, I see that the car had damage to both offside
wheels and to the offside corner of a bumper. These aspects of damage dont relate to the
reported circumstance of the accident causing damage to the nearside. So I dont find it
unfair that esure took the offside damage into account in assessing the pre-accident value of
the vehicle. 
The investigator sought to look separately at the valuation of the vehicle and the deduction
for pre-existing damage. But Ive looked at the overall valuation net of the deduction.
The net figure of £3,000.00 is within the range of the trade guide figures (and higher than
two of them). So I dont conclude that esures valuation treated Mr S unfairly.
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to increase its valuation of £3,000.00.
I expect esure to stand by its valuation. But its final response had said that it would send a
cheque and Mr S could cash it while pursuing his complaint. Mr S couldve pursued that 
option. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to pay Mr S interest. 
From what he has told us in August and September 2022, Mr S told esure he wouldnt cash 
its cheque, but he got the car back from the repairer and hadnt received the cheque. The policy terms provide that if esure settles the total loss claim, then the car becomes its 
property. As Mr S has kept the car, I would expect esure to make a salvage value deduction 
from the valuation of £3,000.00. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman