DRN-1058666
 
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy Harwood Claims Management Limited (HCM) has charged a fee, after she 
received compensation from her lender for excessive commission that had been paid.
What happened
In February 2018, Ms G signed a letter of engagement (LoE). This gave HCM authority to 
submit information requests to her lenders to see whether she had any payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies. But it also gave authorisation for HCM to negotiate and settle any 
PPI claims with her lenders.
 Initially one of the lenders said it hadnt identified a PPI policy. HCM asked Ms G for further 
information after which the lender confirmed in March 2018 that Ms G did have PPI policies 
on two credit cards.
Ms G signed a Letter of Authority (LoA) the same month which authorised HCM to submit a 
claim to this lender. 
In May 2018, the lender said the claim for one of the policies had been successful and an 
award of compensation was made. HCM submitted a request for its fee. And Ms G paid it.
 But the lender said the other PPI policy hadnt been mis-sold. HCM complained, on behalf 
of Ms G, to the Financial Ombudsman Service about this decision. And arranged for
Ms G to complete and sign the necessary forms. 
 In January 2019 the Financial Ombudsman Service agreed the policy hadnt been mis-sold 
but said that there had been excessive commission applied at the time on this policy, and 
that Ms G should be compensated for this. In February 2019, Ms Gs lender sent a letter 
confirming this and the amount of compensation Ms G would get.
 In March 2019, HCM sent its invoice for payment to Ms G for its fee as the second claim 
was now successful.
 But Ms G said shed told the lender she didnt want to carry on with the claim so didnt feel 
the fee being asked for by HCM should be paid. She also said as the compensation was 
about commission, it wasnt for the PPI claim, so HCM wasnt entitled to its fee. She referred 
her complaint to us.
 Our investigator said HCM had submitted the claim to the lender and could charge its fees 
as the claim had been successful. 
 Ms G didnt agree as she had said she didnt want to pursue the claim. And that HCM had 
been aggressive in pushing her into making a claim and pursuing her for its fees. She has 
asked for an ombudsman to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and I will explain why.
 The agreement Ms G signed, with HCM in March 2018 was on a No win No fee basis. This 
means HCM charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work 
they actually did. So, any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. 
Where a claim was successful, HCMs fee may be more or less than the value of the work 
they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
 In its terms and conditions HCM set out its fee as being 25% plus VAT, and included 
monetary examples as to what a customer would receive. 
 Ive see the LoA Ms G signed in March 2018 to instruct HCM. The LoA was specific to 
Ms Gs lender and I can see that it highlighted the policies were in relation to credit cards. 
 The LoA authorised HCM to
 .act as my sole representative.and to pursue all aspects they consider necessary 
in relation to my dealings with the firm. This Letter of Authority relates to the products and 
accounts I have, or have had with you..
Ms G in signing the LOA also agreed:
   . that in addition to the present letter of authority I will need to provide further 
informationdoing so will enable the Lender to assess and determine the complaint..
Ms G accepted when the first claim was successful that HCMs fees were due but disagreed 
about the second claim. 
In November 2014 the Supreme Court made a decision in the case of Plevin v. Paragon 
Personal Finance. They found that if a business had high levels of commission there was a 
duty to disclose the commission, as it created an unfair relationship. These rules came into 
force on the 29 August 2017. 
So when a PPI claim is made its considered whether the policy was mis-sold. In Ms Gs 
case both the lender and Financial Ombudsman Service said the second claim hadnt been. 
But it was also considered as to whether it was a Plevin complaint and the commission that 
had been paid was looked at. 
For Ms G it was identified that excessive commission had been applied to her PPI policy.  
And a compensation payment was made for this. HCM asked Ms G to pay its fee as outlined 
in its terms and conditions as the claim was now successful.
Ms G has said she had asked that the claim wasnt pursued and felt pressured into making 
the claim. 
I can see that after Ms Gs lender said her second claim hadnt been mis-sold HCM told her 
it didnt agree with the lenders decision and recommended she complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. As HCM were representing Ms G this is something Id expect a claims 
management company to do.
In its letter HCM did refer Ms G back to its terms and conditions. And that if the agreement 
was cancelled it had the right to charge reasonable costs for the work it had done. In the 
letter it does add that this was a gentle reminder. 
I know Ms G thought she was being pressured into making her claim to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service .But I dont think it was unreasonable for HCM to highlight the possible 
costs she could incur if she chose not to do this and instead cancel the agreement. I havent 
seen any evidence that Ms G asked for the claim to be cancelled. But I can see that Ms G 
completed the forms for HCM to bring her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
So, I think HCM has followed the instructions agreed to by Ms G when she signed the LoA 
and when she agreed for HCM to represent her in her Financial Ombudsman Service 
complaint. 
Ms G has said that HCM has been aggressive in the pursuance of its fee. And that the 
success of her claim wasnt because of the PPI claim HCM had submitted. But both the 
letters from her lender and Financial Ombudsman Service link the high level of commission 
paid to her PPI policy. So if HCM hadnt submitted the claim, this award wouldnt have been 
made. Ms Gs claim was successful.
So Im satisfied HCM can charge its fee. And so its entitled to attempt to collect it. 
Ms G has said she asked for a copy of HCMs terms and conditions but she didnt get them. 
But the LoE she signed in February 2018 says:
 You should only sign this document if you have read our Letter of Engagement and Terms 
and Conditions and agree to the content of both documents..
So I think its more likely than not that Ms G has had sight of HCMs terms and conditions.
In HCMs terms and conditions it says:
All invoices must be paid within 30 days of issue
 I can see that when Ms G told HCM she hadnt yet received her compensation payment it 
agreed to extend the payment period. Which I think was fair and reasonable. And HCM has 
been clear in its terms and conditions about what actions it would take to recover its fees if 
they remained unpaid.
 So I can understand Ms Gs frustration as she didnt think the fees should be paid. But as 
Ive outlined above I think HCM can charge its fee so I cant say HCM should stop pursuing 
Ms G for the outstanding amount.
 
 
 
 
  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2019.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman