DRN-1633014
 
Complaint
Mrs N says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs N took out a PPI policy with a hire purchase agreement in 1999. Mrs N paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her repayments in 
case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ns case. 
Ive decided that this PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ns credit agreement had a section for PPI. It set out its cost separately to the cost of 
the hire purchase  the PPI was not part and parcel of the lending. There was a box Mrs N 
could sign if she wanted PPI, which could be left blank if she didnt want it. Mrs N signed 
specifically for PPI, separately to signing for the loan itself. So I think that AXA made Mrs N 
aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs N, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. It 
did have to give Mrs N clear information about the PPI.
The agreement set out the cost of the policy and the amount it covered. So I think Mrs N 
wouldve understood how much she would need to pay for PPI if she chose it.
It is possible that AXA didnt point out all the main things the policy wouldnt cover. But Mrs N 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.Adam Charles
Ombudsman