DRN-2416161
The complaint
Mr K complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) reduced the cover under his home 
emergency policy but refused to reduce the premium to reflect this.
What happened
Mr K had a home emergency policy with BG covering his boiler, central heating, plumbing, 
drains and electrics for repairs and emergency call outs. It also provided for an annual 
service of the boiler. The policy had an excess of £60 in respect of repairs. Mr K says in 
March 2020 BG emailed him to advise that in response to Government guidelines in respect 
of Covid-19 it was reducing its services to cover emergency call outs only, until further 
notice.
Mr K complained to BG saying the premium should be reduced to reflect the reduction in 
cover provided. He said because of the email he hadnt contacted BG but had arranged his 
own plumber to deal with a minor leak from a radiator. This cost £60, the same as the 
excess on the policy with BG. 
BG rejected Mr Ks complaint. It said it was required to re-evaluate its services due to 
Government guidelines regarding essential work and travel. It said no refund was due as the 
policy still provided for essential work or emergency visits. And although the repair to the 
radiator wouldnt have been classed as essential it would have been dealt with when no 
restrictions were in place subject to the terms of the policy.
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said she 
didnt think Mr K had been treated unfairly. She said there was no financial disadvantage as 
the plumber had charged the same as the excess under the policy for the radiator repair. 
She said BG would still attend for an emergency and it would need to assess any other 
situation in order to respond appropriately. And there wasnt any evidence that it wouldnt 
have done this had Mr K contacted it. She said that once Covid-19 restrictions had been 
eased BG did attend to carry out the annual service of the boiler.
Mr K said whether he was financially disadvantaged or not wasnt relevant. BG had said not 
to contact them unless it was an emergency and hed paid for a policy that wasnt just for 
emergencies, so he hadnt been supplied with the product hed purchased. Our investigator 
said unlike the purchase of goods the purpose of insurance policies was to provide peace of 
mind and where a claim isnt made at all a refund of premium wouldnt be expected. 
As Mr K doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I can understand Mr Ks disappointment about the potentially reduced service, but I dont 
think BG has treated him unreasonably or unfairly. Ive considered the terms and conditions 
of the policy in coming to my decision. These set out what is and isnt covered by the policy 
including how services will be provided. A section headed Reasonable timescales says:
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, 
unless something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let 
you know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
I think the Governments guidance in respect of essential work and travel in relation to the 
Covid-19 pandemic were beyond BGs control. And the decision to only attend emergency 
call outs in response to the guidance was reasonable. This sort of exceptional circumstance 
is provided for in the terms and conditions of the policy and BG has acted in line with them.
Mr K accepts that he didnt contact BG about the problem with the radiator and that it wasnt 
an emergency. As the repair cost the same as the policy excess, I dont think Mr K has 
suffered any financial disadvantage in BG not being able to attend. 
If hed contacted BG, I think it would have offered to carry out the repair when Covid-19 
restrictions allowed it to, as it did when it carried out the annual service subsequently. Had 
there been any other none emergency issues I think these would also have been covered by 
BG when it was possible to do so. 
I think Mr K did receive the cover hed paid for given the exceptional circumstances applying 
and he hasnt lost out because of any error by BG, so I wont be asking it to do anything 
further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman