DRN-4054026
The complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of Mrs P that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited
delayed in repairing their boiler, under her home emergency cover, and failed to deal
adequately with the claim. The matter was mostly dealt with by a claim handling company
though for convenience Ill refer to DAS throughout. It was responsible for the actions of its
agents  the claim handling company and any engineers it had instructed.
What happened
On 26 January 2022 Mr P contacted DAS because their boiler had broken down. DAS sent
out an engineer the next day. Despite saying they would arrive before 1.30 pm they didnt
arrive until after 2 pm. The engineer said the boiler needed a new gas valve but couldnt
repair it that day.
Mr P made several calls to DAS, and spoke to a manager who he said advised that he could
be reimbursed for buying an electric heater. It was agreed an engineer would come on
29 January.
The engineer arrived, again after the time period advised and didnt carry out repairs. Mr P
said the engineer abused him.
On 1 February an engineer arrived 30 minutes before the end of the time period given. He
again said he couldnt repair the boiler and that a new gas valve was needed. On 2 February
Mr P received a voicemail message from DAS advising that he could instruct his own
contractor and it would refund any repair up to £200.
Mr P attempted to find a contractor to carry out the repair but without success. He contacted
DAS again, who advised him on 4 February that it couldnt find any local engineers to carry
out the repair but the network manager had authorised a repair from the boiler 
manufacturer this was for 14 February. On that date a contractor arrived at 1.00pm and 
carried out the repair, fitting a new gas valve and another part.
Mr P made complaints that DAS failed to respond to the emergency and kept fobbing him
off. It took 17 days to repair the boiler leaving him and his family and guests in sub zero
temperatures. He advised that he had spent many hours awaiting for engineers to arrive and 
on the phone trying to chase matters up.
Initially after the first visit DAS advised Mr P that the claim wouldnt be covered as
Mr and Mrs P had two boilers. It also said that as one boiler was working and they still had
heating and hot water to part of the property, this did not constitute a full breakdown. It did
however point out that it had authorised Mr P to instruct his own contractor at a cost of up to
£200 and it would be willing to pay any such costs on receipt of an invoice. It had also paid
for the contractor repair on 14 February 2022. It said that Mr Ps complaints about the
behaviour of the engineer had been taken on board and fed back internally.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman service our investigator pointed out that the policy
doesnt have an exclusion for two boilers  just if the combined output exceeded 70 kwh.
DAS responded that the combined output was 66kwh so the claim was covered. It also said
that on review the emergency cover was for the failure of the main heating system in the
home, so again the claim should have been covered. It offered to pay compensation of £150,
and any contractors invoice.
Mr P supplied an invoice but this related to a previous claim and for work done in December
2021. He said he still hadnt been reimbursed for the heater he had bought.
Our Investigator said that DASs offer of compensation was reasonable.
Mr P didnt agree and said this failed to take into account the time had had spent on phone
calls and waiting for engineers visits. He felt that DAS and its agents had been deliberately
obstructive and abusive.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that DAS should pay Mrs Ps costs of up to £60 for 
temporary heating. 
DAS accepted my provisional findings.
Mr P responded to my provisional findings as follows:
He doesnt accept that it was agreed for an engineer to attend on 29 January  this was 
imposed on them by DAS.
He sent us a voice recording of the abuse he says he received.
The boiler problem was misdiagnosed. The contractor who repaired it flicked a small 
switch that had slipped, he did not fit a gas valve.
He sent us an online feed concerning DASs conduct towards other customers which 
shows the agent has a history of obstruction.
He still hasnt received payment for the previous repairs he had carried out.
He believes I should consider the inconvenience the claim caused him as well as his 
wife, since the policy includes family legal protection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings, set out below in italics. Where any wording was 
previously in italics I have also underlined it.
jurisdiction
I should advise Mr P that the policyholder in this case is Mrs P. As a matter of jurisdiction, I
only have the power to make compensation awards or require other action, in respect of
Mrs P. Regrettably this means that as the majority of the time spent and inconvenience fell
on Mr P I cant award him compensation for that. I can award compensation to Mrs P in so
far as the delays and inconvenience affected her.the claim
I think that Mrs P was caused inconvenience and upset in the way her claim was dealt with.
On reviewing the information provided I can see that the first engineer noted that there were
two boilers at the property. I believe it is two properties but linked. I think that the second and
third visit by the engineers were to establish whether in light of that, there was policy cover.
But, while he wasnt promised a repair I also think that it wasnt made clear to Mr P in his
various calls why the repair wasnt being carried out. The second visit was to establish what
the situation as but after that the contractors refused to attend again meaning the process
had to be started again with a new contractor.
I do think that if DAS agent had considered the policy terms properly, a repair might have
been able to be organised sooner. But I dont think they were being deliberately obstructive.
It is the case that part of the property had a working boiler. And Mr P was given the 
opportunity to contact his own contractor which is what I would expect DAS to provide. It is 
unfortunate that Mr P was unable to find anyone, but I do note that DAS did take the claim
back on board and organised the eventual repair.
engineers conduct
Mr P says he was abused by one of the engineers. DAS hasnt admitted this but
nevertheless apologised. Without being present at the time it is difficult for me to make any
finding about this. I note DAS agent apologised and fed back the matter internally. Whilst I
understand Mr P is unhappy with this, bearing in mind my comments about my power to
award compensation, I dont think I can take this matter any further.
compensation
I think Mrs P should awarded compensation for the delay in getting the boiler repaired at the
property and for being misled about the policy cover. As Ive said I cant award
compensation to Mr P for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. But I have to take
into account that DAS was proceeding in this case as if no cover was actually available for
Mrs P in light of their views on the presence of a second boiler. So it seems likely that the
case wasnt given the priority it would have got if Mr and Mrs P had been totally without
heating or hot water. In the circumstances of this case and bearing in mind our awards in
similar cases I think DAS should increase the compensation payment to £250.
cost of invoices
Mr P has produced an invoice for repairs he had carried out to his heating system. However
this invoice is dated 7 January 2022, and is for work carried out on 10 December 2021. I
believe this relates to a previous claim so is not part of this complaint.
Mr P also says they had to spend £60 on temporary heating, which a manager advised him
he could do. I havent seen that invoice and the particular phone call, on 28 January 2022, in
which he says that was promised hasnt been provided. Ive seen a note of the call which
doesnt mention this. Nevertheless I think thats reasonable, so if Mr P provides the invoice 
DAS should reimburse him up to £60 for this.
Ive now listened to the phone call of 28 January with a manager, which Im grateful to Mr P 
for providing. The manager repeatedly said he couldnt guarantee that a repair would take 
place the next day as it was to be a diagnosis in light of the first contractor identifying that 
there was a second boiler and some heating/hot water available. Nevertheless the manager 
said he would ask if the contractor could bring the part and if possible fit it under the fixed fee 
arrangement, again with no guarantees. The appointment was agreed in the sense that it was put to Mr P and he accepted it. The manager also confirmed Mr P could buy temporary 
heating for up to £60. Mr P has sent details of the payment to DAS, so it can now pay this.
Ive listened to the recording of a part of the engineers visit. There may have been an 
abusive term used but its not clear and the recording is of only a small part of the 
conversation. When I said DASs agent apologised I meant the claims handling company 
who did apologise both in writing and over the phone. In the letter of 23 February 2022 they 
said, I am truly sorry for any distress that may have been caused.  I still dont think I can 
take that point any further than it has been taken. 
According to the report sent to Mrs P by the manufacturers service department in respect of 
the visit on 14 February 2022 it said, Fitted new gas valve and G10. So according to that a 
new gas valve was fitted.
Ive seen the online comments previously. I cant take them into account as they involve 
other customers and I have no idea of their circumstances. My focus is in respect of DASs 
actions in respect of Mrs P, its policyholder.
I reiterate that the previous repair to their system that Mr or Mrs P paid for is not part of this 
complaint.
I take on board Mr Ps comments about the policy giving family protection. I accept that the 
family are entitled to benefit from certain parts of the policy. Mrs P is the policyholder and the 
complainant, but I accept that any inconvenience suffered by or by her family on behalf of 
her deserves an award of compensation.
Nevertheless, and I have given this careful consideration, I wont increase the compensation 
award beyond the figure set out in my provisional decision or award costs for Mr P waiting in 
and for dealing with the claim and complaint. The repair took 19 days from the date of 
notification of the claim. And a policyholder has to accept some inconvenience in any case 
waiting in for appointments, even if the engineer comes slightly after or near the end of the 
time period advised. I think two of the appointments here shouldnt have been necessary. 
But the family had access to temporary heating in that time and some access to hot water.
I am satisfied nevertheless that the family suffered a lot of inconvenience within a relatively 
short period of time, which is why I think a payment of £250 is fair and reasonable.   
Putting things right
DAS should:
pay Mrs P £250 compensation.
pay Mrs P £60 for the purchase of temporary heating. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Ray LawleyOmbudsman