DRN-2435969
The complaint
This complaint is about two attempts Ms H made to transfer the life time mortgage she held 
with OneFamily Lifetime Mortgages Limited (OF) to a new property. Both attempts were 
unsuccessful, for differing reasons, resulting in the mortgaqe being repaid, and an early 
repayment charge (ERC) being levied. Ms H says OF breached its contractual obligations 
and should refund the ERC.
What happened
The above summary is in my own words. The basic background to this complaint is well 
known to both parties so I wont repeat the details here. Instead Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Ms H has cited decisions weve made on previous cases. Every complaint we receive is 
considered and decided on the individual circumstances of that case, and except on very 
rare occasions, our decisions dont set precedents.
From what she has said in her extensive submissions, I get the impression Ms H believes 
OF had a contractual obligation to transfer her mortgage to another property, or provide a 
new mortgage to replace the first if the sale and purchase happened at different times. Im 
afraid she has rather mis-directed herself in that regard. 
The starting point here is that no one is entitled to borrow money and lenders arent obliged 
to lend it, even where theyve lent before. Thats demonstrated in section three of Ms Hs 
original mortgage offer from 2017, where it says:
If you buy a new home, you may be able to transfer your lifetime mortgage to your new 
home, or you may be able to get a new lifetime mortgage. (my emphasis)
That position is reinforced in section seven, where the offer says:
If you move to a new property that is suitable to OneFamlly, you can move your 
mortgage. (again my emphasis)
I dont know how much of the original offer Ms H assimilated. OF set the terms of the offer 
out in a manner that met the requirements of the regulator; it was for Ms Hs mortgage 
broker to ensure she understood and was happy with what it said.
Any request to borrow again, or transfer an existing mortgage to a different property, is a 
new lending decision for a lender, and is subject to its lending policy and criteria  and the 
consumers individual circumstances - as they stand at the time the request is made. 
Also, mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; theres no set timetable for how long it 
can take for a lender to reach a position where it has all the information it needs to make a 
lending decision. 
The first potential purchase
This started in November 2018. OF had concerns about changes in the financial status of 
Ms Fs husband who, whilst not a party to the mortgage, would be resident in the property 
Ms F was looking to buy. I wont go into any further detail about that, in order to preserve Ms 
Fs privacy. 
Its not for me to second guess or otherwise interfere with OFs judgement in this regard. It 
was up to OFs underwriters (and in this case solicitors) to decide if and when they had 
enough information about Ms Fs husbands status to make a lending decision. By 
4 January 2019, OF had decided it could sanction a transfer of the mortgage to the property 
Ms H wanted to buy. By then, however, she had aborted the purchase. 
Ms H has indicated to us that this was because she could not meet the vendors deadline for 
exchanging contracts. But OF says Ms H told it in a phone call the day before that shed 
been put off buying it after seeing the results of her own survey on the property. Ive listened 
to a recording of that call, and Ms H does tell OF that she has decided of her own volition not 
to buy the property, for reasons entirely unrelated to OFs handling of the application. Also, 
far from being dissatisfied with the service shed received up to that point, Ms H thanked the 
caller for the good news that the lending had been agreed, and said shed now be looking for 
a new property.
In all the circumstances, and based on all of the information Ive been given to consider, Im 
not persuaded the first purchase fell through because of acts, omissions or delays on OFs 
part.
The second potential purchase
This started in late January 2019, and ended in March 2019, when OF concluded that the 
property Ms H was now proposing to buy wasnt acceptable security. Lenders can, but arent 
obliged to, make their lending policy known to the public at large. They can if they wish 
regard the policy as commercially sensitive. 
Also, Ive no regulatory function; its not my role to decide what OFs lending policy (or any 
lenders for that matter) on acceptable properties should be. If OF is reluctant to lend on 
properties with flat roofs, thats a matter for its commercial judgement. But it should apply 
that policy fairly, and here Im satisfied it did. 
Ive seen a copy of the lending policy document OF made available to its brokers. Its criteria 
are broken down into three categories; acceptable, not acceptable and considered on a 
case-by-case basis. In the section on construction, it specifies that properties with flat roofing 
that exceeds 25% will be considered on a case-by-case basis. In Ms Hs case, the percentage reported by the valuer was 51%. OF decided it wasnt 
acceptable; that was OFs judgement to make (not Ms Hs and certainly not mine) and one 
that reflected a fair application of its lending policy.
What I would say here, is that OF made rather heavy weather of its administrative steps and 
procedures before it made both lending decisions. So whilst Im satisfied the lending 
decisions were fair, I think they could have been reached sooner. OF has accepted that and 
offered compensation; Ill come back to that shortly.
Im aware that by the time the second application had been turned down, Ms H had sold her 
existing property. Shed redeemed the existing mortgage, paid an ERC, and moved into 
rented accommodation temporarily. Those were her decisions; and she made them knowing 
that OF had yet to make its lending decision. 
I cant know for certain, but its possible she did so on the basis of the mistaken belief (to 
which I alluded earlier) that OF was contractually obliged to lend again, thus paving the way 
for the ERC to be refunded. If thats true, then thats regrettable, but it doesnt make OF 
responsible for the decisions Ms H took, or the cost she incurred as a result.
OF has offered Ms H £1,000 for the shortcomings in its service. Taking a step back from the 
detail and looking at everything in the round, I find that to be more than generous in all the 
circumstances. I leave it to Ms H to decide if, on further reflection, she wishes to accept that 
offer. If she does, then she can either contact OF directly or let our investigator know and he 
will tell OF.
Ms H doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor OF will 
be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might 
impose, Ms Hs right to take legal action against OF over the subject matter of this complaint 
wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman