DRN-3921180
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a fee-paying 
Platinum packaged bank account in June 2005. They have said that they were told that they 
needed to take out the account to get an overdraft facility.
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the sale of the Platinum account and they didnt think that Lloyds 
had mis-sold it to them. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with this and therefore their complaint was 
referred to me for a final decision. I should highlight that this complaint is only about the sale 
of the Platinum account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs H were given a clear choice in taking this 
account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened
Firstly, I should say that Mr H did hold a fee-free account with Lloyds prior to this sale. 
Therefore, I think that he would reasonably have been aware that free accounts were an 
option. 
Mr and Mrs H say in their complaint to this service that Mr H was told that he had to take out 
the Platinum account in order to get an overdraft. I think though it is more likely that what Mr 
H recalls (as it was sold as a sole account to him) is that having a Platinum account was a 
way of getting a £250 interest free overdraft, which was not available on a normal account. I 
also can see that he drove at the time and likely had a mobile phone so I think that these 
benefits might have been attractive to him. Moreover, looking at the available evidence it 
seems as if no account fee was charged until around two years later. So I think Mr H agreed 
to the account initially because he was given some sort of introductory offer whereby he 
would get the account for free and in effect get a cheaper overdraft facility than wouldve 
been available on a normal fee free account.
So in the circumstances, I think that it is more likely that Mr H agreed to the Platinum 
account because of the benefits that it came with. 
From my understanding of Lloydss sales processes at the time of sale, I think that a 
personal recommendation was made and therefore it had to ensure that the account was 
right for Mr H based on his circumstances at the time. 
I note that Mr and Mrs H say that at the time of the sale, Mr H did not need mobile phone 
insurance, breakdown cover and travel insurance. But even if I accepted that this was the 
case, given the banking benefits that the account came with and given the fee free 
introductory offer, it looks like Mr H was still able to obtain savings by having the account 
initially. So I cant say that the recommendation was inappropriate.
Mr H at the time of the sale may not have been told everything about all benefits that the 
account came with. But I cannot see anything specific that Mr H was not told about, that I 
think wouldve altered their decision to take out the account.
Mr and Mrs H may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe that they havent benefitted 
from the account. I can also understand that given how the benefits changed over time and 
given that a fee was re-introduced in 2007, the account may have become less useful to 
them. But this does not mean that the account was sold incorrectly initially. 
So having thought about the information provided and listened to everything Mr and Mrs H 
have said, I dont think that the Platinum account was mis-sold in the first instance.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman