DRN-2908685
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds) handling of a claim
made under her buildings insurance policy. And references to Lloyds include its agents.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs L noticed an extension on her house appeared to be showing signs of cracking.
Mrs L arranged for her own structural engineer to carry out an inspection. They concluded 
the extension was suffering from subsidence. Mrs L contacted Lloyds to lodge a claim and
shared a copy of the report from her structural engineer. Mrs L says when Lloyds surveyor
came to her house, they didnt complete any further inspections.
However, shortly after the visit, Lloyds sent Mrs L a letter saying her claim had been
declined. It said it was relying on the exclusion that doesnt provide cover for defective
materials, design or faulty workmanship. It relied on this clause as a result of the comments
in the structural survey that the depth of the foundations ought to be deeper than 1.4m given
the proximity of nearby trees and vegetation.
Mrs L disagrees with this. She says when she took the policy out, she only received a two-
page policy document and this exclusion wasnt mentioned. She also questions on what
basis the claim can rightly be declined, saying the single storey extension foundations are
1.4m deep  the same as the house (which doesnt appear to be suffering from subsidence)
and in light of the fact Lloyds engineer didnt carry out an inspection of the extension. In
addition to this, Mrs L reminded Lloyds that the plans for the extension had been approved
by her Local Authority, and the foundations were considered to comply with Building
Regulations. However, Lloyds continued to be of the opinion the claim should be declined.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 April 2021. Heres what I said:
Its not in dispute that the extension is suffering subsidence as a result of clay shrinkage
from nearby trees. What is in dispute is whether Lloyds have acted fairly in declining Mrs Ls
claim. For ease, Ive copied below the relevant clauses from the policy that Lloyds is relying
on:
Whats covered
Loss or damage caused by:
Subsidence or ground heave of the site on which the buildings stand
What isnt covered
Loss of damage:
Arising from the use of defective materials, defective design or faulty
workmanship.
Mrs L considers Lloyds incorrectly declined the claim because the extension was signed off
by her Local Authority as having met the Building Regulations in force when it was built.
Lloyds expert argues the Building Regulations arent being applied correctly, saying theyre
a minimum requirement, not a requirement in themselves. Lloyds maintains says the
extension foundations were not cast deep enough to avoid the influence of the nearby
vegetation. They quoted from British Standard Basis of Design, referencing section BS8004
which says:
Movements may result from cause not connected with the loads applied but he
foundations (Cooling and Ward 1948). The causes of ground movement are as
follows: a) seasonal changes or the effects of vegetation leading to shrinking and
swelling of clay soils In the design of foundations the possibility of movements
unconnected with the application of load should be considered and, when necessary,
steps should be taken to minimize any damage that may result from these causes
Ive considered the comments in section BS8004 of the British Standard Basis of Design.
From what Ive seen this is a code of practice providing recommendations for the design and
construction of foundations. However, it refers generally to taking account of the subsoil and
nearby vegetation in the area of the build but didnt specify a required depth for foundations.
Ill turn now to the report provided by Mrs Ls engineer which commented on the depth of
foundations. It concluded the foundations should have been deeper than 1.4m given the
proximity of existing trees and vegetation when the extension was built, quoting guidelines
applied by an organisation involved in the building of new homes. The report also noted that
the soil is shrinkable, with a medium volume change. I understand in circumstances like
this, the Building Regulations outlined a minimum foundation depth of 900mm.
Both sides accept the extensions foundations are 1.4m, so deeper than the minimum depth
set out above. This, along with the fact the application for the build was approved by the
Local Authority would indicate to me that BS8004 was followed. On this basis, I dont
consider this a persuasive argument from Lloyds that the foundations were of an insufficient
depth.
Lloyds maintains the design should have calculated for the foundations to be deep enough
to not only support the load of the extension, but also take account of nearby vegetation. It
seems to have reached this view by relying heavily on the conclusions of the report 
commissioned by Mrs L.
Lloyds says using the guidelines applied by an organisation involved in the building of new
homes, the foundation depth ought to be at least 2.5m deep as the nearby trees were
present when the extension was built. As the foundations for Mrs Ls extension are 1.4m
deep, Lloyds considers the design to be defective.
Lloyds relied on the guidelines applied by an organisation involved in the buildings of new
homes to decline Mrs Ls claim. I note Mrs Ls extension wasnt built as a new home or by
that organisation. As a result, Im not persuaded those guidelines apply to this extension. For
this reason, I dont think those guidelines are relevant to the claim for the extension and I
wont consider them further.
In light of the above conclusion about the guidelines Lloyds relying on, Ive gone on the
information Mrs L has provided about the extension.
Mrs L provided a completion letter and certificate from an inspector approved by her Local
Authority in June 2015. This stated the single storey extension had been satisfactorily
completed in accordance with Building Regulations (section 51 of the Building Act 1984 and
The Building (approved Inspectors etc) Regulations 2010). The certificate was sent to Mrs
Ls Local Authority. The letter said: all works are now considered to have been satisfactorily
completed in accordance with the building regulations.
On balance, Im not persuaded Lloyds is entitled to rely on the guidelines it has. I do not
consider it has demonstrated that the extension did not comply with the Building Regulationsin force at the time. I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached in that Lloyds has
not sufficiently demonstrated the exclusion its intending to rely on applies and should
consider the claim. Therefore, Im intending to direct Lloyds to accept Mrs Ls claim for the
extension and settle it in line with the remaining policy terms.
I also consider that Lloyds decision to unfairly decline the claim has caused Mrs L some
upset and worry during the handling of the claim. Lloyds acknowledged this and offered her
£50. Like the investigator, I consider £200 to be a fairer amount to reflect the occasional lack
of communication and confusion caused by Lloyds, along with what I consider to be the 
upset caused by unfairly declining her claim.
I asked both sides to provide any further comments they wished to make before I issued a 
final decision. 
Mrs L accepted my provisional decision. Lloyds disagreed. It said the trees near Mrs Ls 
property had been present for a number of years and should have been taken account of 
when the extension was designed. Lloyds also referred to Building Regulations from 2010, 
saying the extension should have been built so that it did not move for reasons foreseeable 
to a designer... It argues that the vegetation was easily visible and should have been 
foreseeable. 
Lloyds also referred to two sections of the Approved Documents issued by the Government, 
arguing that the foundations depth of 1.4m wouldnt be sufficient to satisfy the guidance set 
out in these sections. It also suggested that the guidelines I concluded were not relevant 
should be considered, although not in isolation. Finally, Lloyds suggested the inspection 
appointed by Mrs Ls Local Authority had not carried out sufficiently detailed checks of the 
extension before signing it off, and it should not be held responsible for this. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Lloyds additional points about the Building Regulations. However, having 
done so, these new comments dont lead me to reach a different conclusion to that outlined 
in my provisional decision. 
In considering Lloyds comments about the Building Regulations, Ive reflected on the 
section it quoted:
Ground movement
A2. The building shall be constructed so that ground movement caused by
(a) Swelling, shrinkage or freezing of the subsoil; or
(b) Land-slip or subsidence (other than subsidence arising from shrinkage), in so far 
as the risk can reasonably be foreseen will not impair the stability of any part of 
the building
Lloyds primary argument here is that as the vegetation was visible and had been for a 
number of years, the designer of the extension ought to have directed the foundations to be 
dug deeper than 1.4m. However, Lloyds also noted the Regulations set out how a structure 
could be designed. They are not intended to be instructions that must be followed, rather 
requirement A2 is a broad aim and the guidance in the Approved Document sets out ways to 
achieve it. And, as Ive said in my provisional decision, the regulations in force at the time 
the extension was built required a minimum depth of 900mm. Ive also considered the sections from the Approved Documents Lloyds has provided. Again, 
both of these sections indicate a minimum depth for foundations and recommendations that 
they are dug deeper if there are trees nearby. The foundations for Mrs Ls extension at 1.4m 
were more than 50% deeper than the minimum depth required as set out in the Approved 
Documents referenced by Lloyds. As a result, Im satisfied the guidance has been followed. 
While Ive given consideration section A2 above, Ive also considered Lloyds suggestion the 
inspector appointed by Mrs Ls Local Authority did not carry out sufficiently detailed checks. 
However, in weighing up their comments against the information already on the file, I note I 
havent been provided with any evidence to support Lloyds suggestion these checks were 
not carried out in line with expectations. Im mindful that following this inspection a 
completion certificate was issued in respect of the extension. Its not for this service to judge 
the Local Authority. However I consider Mrs L was entitled to rely on the completion 
certificate and understood based on this being issued, the extension had been built to an 
appropriate standard. 
I dont consider Lloyds recent comments on the Building Regulations, or the inspection 
carried out by Mrs Ls Local Authority, are sufficient in persuading me to reach a different to 
conclusion to that set out in my provisional decision. For the reasons given in both here and 
in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied Lloyds has not demonstrated that the extension 
did not comply with the Building Regulations in force at the time.
In summary, I am still not persuaded Lloyds has demonstrated that the extension did not 
comply with the Building Regulations in force at the time it was built. I also consider Lloyds 
has not sufficiently demonstrated the exclusion its intending to rely on applies and I require 
it to settle Mrs Ls claim, in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Ive not received any further comments from either side about the compensation I intended 
to require Lloyds to pay Mrs L £200 to the reflect the occasional lack of communication and 
confusion caused by Lloyds, along with what I consider to be the upset caused by unfairly 
declining her claim. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ls complaint against Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited. I require it to 
settle Mrs Ls claim as directed above and pay her £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman