DRN-3886425
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly applied a 
default to her account.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 18 November 2022, and this is what I 
said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so 
far, I intend to uphold this complaint. Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give 
everyone a chance to reply. Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 16 
December 2022. But unless the information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to 
be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly applied a 
default to her account.
What happened
Mrs J holds a Barclaycard account in her name and relied on her husband to make her 
monthly payments from his bank account.
Mrs Js husband made a series of on-line payments towards the end of 2020. However, 
these payments werent credited to Mrs Js Barclaycard account. This led to Barclaycard 
sending overdue statement letters. Mrs J thought these letters were a mistake and took no 
action. This is because Mrs Js husband said the payments had left his account.
In December 2020, Barclaycard sent a further overdue letter informing Mrs J that she had 
missed three payments. They asked her to get in touch to avoid the card being permanently 
cancelled.
As no payments were received in January 2021, Barclaycard sent a further letter marked 
Your account is overdue - please get in touch straight away. They informed Mrs J that 
missed payments were being reported to credit reference agencies. Also, that a default 
notice, which would give her 28 days to fully clear outstanding arrears, would be sent if 
payments continued to be missed.
Mrs J spoke to Barclaycard representatives in late January and early February 2021 to 
explain that she had made payments and they had all left her husbands account. 
Barclaycard confirmed payments had been returned and said they would investigate. They 
asked for copies of Mrs Js husbands bank statements. There was a delay and redacted 
copies were not received until 21 April 2021.   
As Barclaycard hadnt received any payments, they sent Mrs J a default notice on 26 March 
2021. This notice said Mrs J had broken the agreement and gave her a deadline to fully 
clear the arrears.
As Mrs J didnt have confidence to make any further payments, she requested her account 
and the default action be put on hold until the payments were found. Mrs J gained the 
impression that this was agreed. However, Barclaycard continued to request payments and, 
as these were not actioned, Mrs Js account was defaulted on 21 May 2021.
In June 2021, Mrs J was informed of the result of the investigation and shown that the 
missing payments had been refunded straight back to her husbands account. Mrs J 
complained as the default went ahead when she thought there was a hold on her account.   
Barclaycard said that Mrs J was informed that the payments hadnt been received and the 
default was correctly applied.
Mrs J complained to our service. Our investigators view is that Barclaycard should remove 
the default from the account and bring it back within their internal collections department. 
She said this is because they shouldve put the account on hold and explained to Mrs J in 
more detail what the situation was with her account. Also, that Mrs J should be awarded 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused when chasing responses and 
updates.
Barclaycard do not fully agree. They accept the award of £100. However, they say that prior 
to the default action, it wouldve been clear, because of the reference on Mrs Js husbands 
statements, that the payments had been re-credited, and this confirmed information given in 
February 2021. They therefore question affordability, the intent to pay and the 
appropriateness of lifting the default. 
This case has therefore been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As Mrs Js account had outstanding payments, Barclaycard werent obligated to suspend 
interest, charges or recovery action. However, Ive considered whether it would have been 
fair to do that. 
It looks like the reason the payments were missed until April 2021 was because of the 
arrangement between Mrs J and her husband. Thats not something Barclaycard could fairly 
be held responsible for. Ultimately Mrs J is Barclaycards customer and they sent her 
statements which made the situation with the account clear. Also, refunds were showing on 
Mrs Js husbands statement and if Mrs Js husband didnt tell her about these then, again, 
thats not Barclaycards fault. So, I think Barclaycard is entitled to apply interest and charges 
to these missed payments until April 2021 and that they remain on her credit file.
But at the point that Mrs J called Barclaycard, I think things became slightly confused. Call 
recordings show that Mrs J requested a hold on her account to allow for a payment 
investigation to be completed. Barclaycard representatives didnt provide clarity on whether 
the account was on hold or not. Also, they didnt give an update on the investigation or 
specify a completion timeframe. This lack of clarity and Mrs Js call comments persuade me 
that she was under the false impression that the investigation was on-going and a hold was 
in place. In addition, Mrs J was told that letters would continue to be sent automatically, 
however I cant see that it was explained that she needed to respond to these to avoid a 
default.Also, contact notes show that Barclaycard conducted both a preliminary and full investigation 
which confirmed the refunds. However, I cant see that an outcome was communicated to 
Mrs J until after the default was completed. Furthermore, when discussing the investigation 
and the eventual outcome, Mrs J sounded eager for it to be completed and surprised the 
refunds had been missed. 
Im satisfied that there was a lack of clarity and that this led to confusion. I think Barclaycard 
could have done more to communicate this more clearly for Mrs J. Had they have done so 
and had they have completed the investigation before the default was registered, then I think 
Mrs J would have paid what was needed to avoid the default. I say this because she has 
confirmed as much to this service. Mrs J has said that if the default is removed then she can 
afford to start paying back whats owed but would like to do so on a monthly basis rather 
than a one off sum  which seems fair to me in the circumstances here.
I accept there is an unanswered question about why Mrs Js husband struck out the refunds 
on submitted statement in which some of his account information can be seen. Also, I can 
see that there would be questions as to why Mrs J was relying on her husband to pay her 
account. However, Mrs Js husbands redacted bank statements were only submitted to view 
relevant debits and credits and therefore it wouldnt be right or fair to draw any conclusion 
about Mrs Js intent from his submission. 
Furthermore, Mrs Js husbands payments did leave his account and although I dont have 
the transaction details, the rejection reason was the reference used. Therefore, I think it 
unlikely that there was a plan for these to be returned unpaid. Also, whilst I do not know Mrs 
Js wider financial circumstances, on the calls she sounded eager to resolve the situation 
and surprised that the refund had been processed after all. And she has told this service that 
she is able to start paying back whats owed too. So, Im not persuaded that there was any 
intent to avoid payment.    
So, with all this in mind, I dont think its fair for Mrs Js account to be defaulted, or for her 
account to be charged interest and fees between 21 April 2021 and 21 May 2021. The 
reason for these dates being mentioned is 21 April 2021 is the date Barclaycard were 
provided with information to conduct an investigation and the 21 May 2021 is the date the 
default occurred. Nor do I think Barclaycard should report any adverse information after this 
time either.
Finally, it is not in dispute that the service provided to Mrs J could have been better with 
regard to communication clarity, which caused Mrs J to make a number of calls. I therefore 
agree that £100 compensation is fair for the inconvenience and distress caused.  
My provisional decision 
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint. 
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to:
 refund any interest and charges applied between 21 April 2021 and 21 May 2021;
 remove any adverse information recorded between April 2021 and May 2021 
including the default;
 bring back the account from any third-party collection agent (if this is the case) so 
that Barclaycard itself can agree a way forward with Mrs J in terms of payments, and;
 pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenienceIll look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 16 December 
2022. Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set 
out above.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence before the 
deadline.
Mrs J didnt agree with the amount of compensation and said: 
I am rather disappointed that the proposed compensation value is only £100, especially 
considering that Barclays Bank has consistently denied their unprofessionalism in dealing 
with this matter. In the last two years, they have put me in a bad credit rating and due to that 
I was unable to sort out my mortgage at a favourable rate, could not get loans or increase 
credit. Furthermore, by instigating a bad debt which resulted a debt agency putting a default 
on me. Given the above, I am now requesting you to reconsider the compensation value of 
£100 to a more appropriate compensation for a stress and anxiety caused as well as a 
financial situation I have been put in.
Barclaycard said:
"If Ms J is willing to agree to the outcome proposed and the default is removed, the account 
would be returned to the contractual terms. This would mean monthly repayments are 
required in line with the contractual terms and conditions. If Ms J is unable to meet the 
minimum payments as shown on the monthly statements, she would need to contact us to 
discuss a repayment arrangement. Wed need to review Ms J income and expenditure 
before agreeing to any reduced repayment arrangements and her credit file would reflect 
any missed payments or repayment arrangements which occur after the default is removed. 
If Ms J is unable to maintain sufficient repayments, the account could default again in the 
future. Contractual interest and charges would also resume once the default is reversed. If 
Ms J contacts us to confirm shes unable to meet the minimum payment, we can arrange for 
these to be stopped and a repayment arrangement discussed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Thinking about everything again and in light of Mrs Js comments, I re-considered the 
compensation award.
I first looked at the time between late 2020 until 21 April 2021 and I didnt think 
compensation would be fair for this period. This is because Im satisfied that Barclaycard 
were entitled to apply interest, charges and to report missed payments to credit reference 
agencies. Also, the payments were missed due to the arrangement between Mrs J and her 
husband. And, I dont think it is fair to hold Barclaycard responsible for events in this period 
as they sent Mrs J statements which made the account position and payment situation clear. 
In addition, refunds were showing on Mrs Js husbands statement and if Mrs Js husband 
didnt tell her about these then thats not Barclaycards fault. And, Barclaycard didnt receive 
information to conduct an investigation until 21 April 2021.
I then looked again at the period 21 April 2021 to 21 May 2021 together with the information 
on file about the impact of the default.  I still think the default couldve been avoided with 
better communication and clarity from Barclaycard, however I also had to take the following 
points into consideration:Mrs J had been relying on her husband to pay her account and Barclaycards investigation 
discovered he struck out clearly displayed refunds on his submitted statements. And, there 
remain unanswered questions about the necessity of placing a hold on Mrs Js account to 
undertake an investigation into refunds that werent missing. Consequently, Barclaycard 
question Mrs Js ability and intent to repay the amount owed. Also, there is limited 
information on file to understand the impact of the default on Mrs Js financial affairs. 
So, although a request for a greater level of compensation is understandable in a case 
where the decision is for a default is to be reversed, which I acknowledge must be both 
inconvenient and stressful, it is difficult to make an award for this when considering the 
above-mentioned wider circumstances.
However, there was a lack of clarity and it was necessary for Mrs J to chase responses. So, 
I consider the £100 award proposed by Barclaycard for distress and inconvenience to be fair 
and reasonable.
Finally, regarding agreeing a way forward with Mrs J, in terms of payments once the default 
is lifted. As pointed out by Barclaycard, this would mean monthly repayments are required in 
line with the contractual terms and conditions. And, I think the following request, requirement 
and statement from Barclaycard is reasonable should Mrs J be unable to meet the minimum 
payments as shown on the monthly statements:
Mrs J would need to contact us to discuss a repayment arrangement. Wed need to review 
Ms J income and expenditure before agreeing to any reduced repayment arrangements and 
her credit file would reflect any missed payments or repayment arrangements which occur 
after the default is removed. If Ms J is unable to maintain sufficient repayments, the account 
could default again in the future. Contractual interest and charges would also resume once 
the default is reversed. If Ms J contacts us to confirm shes unable to meet the minimum 
payment, we can arrange for these to be stopped and a repayment arrangement discussed.
So, taking everything into consideration, I will be directing Barclaycard to lift the default and 
pay £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard to:
 refund any interest and charges applied between 21 April 2021 and 21 May 2021;
 remove any adverse information recorded between April 2021 and May 2021 
including the default;
 bring back the account from any third-party collection agent (if this is the case) so 
that Barclaycard itself can agree a way forward with Mrs J in terms of payments, and;
 pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman