DRN-3830354
The complaint
Mr L complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled a car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L took out a car insurance policy provided by AA. A few days after the policy cover 
started, AA wrote to Mr L asking for certain documentation in order to validate the 
information Mr L had provided when taking out the policy.
After undertaking the necessary checks, AA wrote to Mr L saying it was giving 7 days notice 
of its intention to cancel the policy. It provided a pro-rata refund for the unused period of 
cover. It did so because it said Mr L hadnt disclosed a speeding conviction when he took out 
the policy.
Mr L complained to AA, and then to our service. Our investigator didnt think AA had acted 
reasonably when it cancelled Mr Ls policy. AA didnt agree, and requested an ombudsmans 
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded that while I thought AA could 
fairly cancel Mr Ls policy, its reasons for doing so werent in line with a reasonable 
approach. I said:
In its submissions to our service, AA has said that it doesnt believe the provisions of the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 apply to Mr Ls case. It 
says that a condition of Mr Ls policy allows it to cancel the policy in the event that material 
information hasnt been properly disclosed.
The relevant condition referred to by AA says:
You must take reasonable care to ensure that the information provided by you or on your 
behalf in relation to Your AA Car Insurance is provided honestly, fully and to the best of your 
knowledge... Failure to do so may result in your insurance being cancelled or treated as if it 
never existed or your claim being rejected or not fully paid.
I note this condition, but dont agree with AAs assertion that this condition means that its 
actions dont need to be in accordance with the provisions of CIDRA. Its only fair for AA to 
rely on this condition if it acts in the way its required to by the legislation  it would be 
unreasonable to allow an insurer to act outside of the statutory approach to 
misrepresentation on the basis of its own policy terms and conditions. My starting point here 
has therefore been to consider what CIDRA says AA could do in these circumstances. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
In this case, a number of relevant points dont appear to be disputed by Mr L and AA. Ill list 
these below:
Mr L was asked a clear question about any motoring convictions when taking out the 
policy.
Mr L didnt disclose a speeding conviction that he was aware of.
Mr L didnt take reasonable care to check the details before taking out the policy. He 
should have noticed the speeding conviction hadnt been disclosed.
If properly disclosed, AA would have offered the policy, but at a higher premium.
All of this means Im satisfied Mr Ls misrepresentation was a qualifying one. He didnt take 
reasonable care in failing to disclose, when asked, if he had any motoring convictions. If hed 
properly disclosed the speeding conviction, AA would have offered the policy on different 
terms.
AA accepts that Mr Ls misrepresentation was careless. I dont need to consider this any 
further. As this is treated as a careless misrepresentation, Ive looked at the actions AA 
could take in accordance with CIDRA.
As no claim has been made, AAs options under CIDRA following the misrepresentation 
being established are outlined in Schedule 1 of the Act. In summary, they were:
To leave the policy in force, but any claims made on the policy would be settled on a 
proportionate basis.
To give notice of its intention to cancel the policy, and provide a pro-rata refund of the 
premium paid.
It seems to me that AAs actions were in line with the second of these options. AA wrote to 
Mr L and said the policy would be cancelled 7 days from the date of the letter. Its refunded 
the unused portion of the premium.
So on balance, Im satisfied AA could fairly cancel Mr Ls policy in these circumstances as 
this is what CIDRA says it can do. Its reliance on the policy term referenced above doesnt 
lead to a different outcome from what would have happened if it had followed the process 
outlined by CIDRA.
AA said rather than offer the policy on alternative terms or make a proportionate settlement 
of future claims, it cancelled the policy because it considers those who fail to disclose 
information to be a higher risk. I dont think I need to consider this, as CIDRA doesnt outline 
that an insurers decision whether to leave the policy in force or cancel has to be based on 
evidence  its entirely at the insurers discretion.
Ive also considered whether its fair for AA to record this as an enforced cancellation by the 
insurer on the various systems and databases accessible to insurers. Mr Ls concerned that 
in doing so, hes obliged to disclose this when taking out insurance on an ongoing basis, and 
that this affects the premiums he pays.Im satisfied AA can fairly record this as an enforced cancellation. CIDRA, and the relevant 
policy term, says an insurer can cancel a policy in the way its done so here where a careless 
qualifying misrepresentation has been made. It follows that its reasonable for an insurer 
taking that action to record the cancellation in accordance with how the policy was cancelled 
 in this case at the insurers discretion.
The responses to my provisional decision
Both AA and Mr L responded to my provisional decision. AA said it had nothing further to 
add to the points Id raised.
Mr L said AAs decision to cancel the policy was what he considered to have been 
unreasonable. He said hed inadvertently ticked an incorrect box on an online form and didnt 
pick up on the error, but was given no opportunity to rectify the mistake before the policy was 
cancelled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sympathetic to Mr Ls situation here, and note the impact the cancellation will have on 
him in the future, due to the need to declare it on an ongoing basis. I dont dispute, and 
neither does AA, that he made an inadvertent error and didnt pick up on this at the time. 
However, this still suggests he didnt take reasonable care, and so he made a careless 
misrepresentation.
I also agree that AA could have acted differently  but that doesnt mean its actions in 
cancelling the policy were wrong or unreasonable. I acknowledge AAs point around their 
policy being to cancel policies where a misrepresentation has been made, even if theyd 
have offered cover. We wont usually tell an insurer how they should do business, and AAs 
actions here were in line with what it can do under CIDRA. 
Having reviewed all of the information available to me again, and considered the further 
points raised by Mr L, I do conclude that AA acted reasonably when it cancelled the policy. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman