DRN-3612420
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nelson Insurance Company Ltd turned down his claim on his Private 
Hire Taxi insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R was driving along and saw smoke coming from his car, so he pulled over and called 
the fire brigade. The fire brigade attended the scene and Mr R claimed on his policy for fire 
damage. 
Nelson reviewed the claim but turned it down. Nelsons engineer assessed Mr Rs car and 
found the smoke had been cause by oil deposits on the engine which hadnt been cleaned. 
Nelsons engineer also said there wasnt evidence of actual fire or flame damage. Because 
of this Nelson turned down Mr Rs claim. Mr R didnt think this was fair and complained. 
Nelson reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. They said the engine failed due to not 
being maintained, in particular the oil deposits not being cleaned off the engine. Mr R didnt 
agree and referred the complaint here. He said hed serviced his car recently and had a 
mechanic who had assessed the car and said it was fire damage.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that 
Nelsons engineer had reviewed the car and determined no fire had occurred, he also found 
the fire brigades report from when they attended the scene had referred to it as a false 
alarm. Mr R didnt agree he said his mechanical specialist had said a fire had occurred so 
thought his claim should be paid. 
As Mr R didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy covers him in the event of a fire, in this case Nelson has said a fire hasnt 
occurred but has also relied upon an exclusion which says:
We will not pay for:

4  Wear and tear, mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer 
breakdowns, failures and breakages caused by hacks, viruses or 
malware.
For an exclusion to apply I first need to be satisfied an insured event has occurred, Mr R has 
said his car had a fire and as Nelson have applied the exclusion, Ive considered whether its 
done so fairly. 
I dont doubt that Mr R had smoke coming from his bonnet, however the cause of the smoke 
and damage to the engine appears to be from oil build up which hasnt been cleaned. I say 
this because Nelsons engineers report says:
The damage appears consistent with reported accident circumstances, 
but there is no evidence of actual Flame Fire. The rear plastic on top of 
engine cover is heavily covered in oil deposits this has caused the 
plastic cover to melt. Close examination of the wiring loom and 
connections and bonnet sound pad displays no evidence of fire damage. 
This is down to lack of maintenance and having the engine block 
cleaned of oil deposits (see images)
The report also includes photos to support the statements made. Ive also reviewed the 
report Mr R has provided which says:
The damage after reviewing the vehicle REG. was from fire 
damage when engine was burnt-out 
Ive reviewed both reports and Im more persuaded by Nelsons. I say this because its more 
detailed, accompanied by photos and is completed by a qualified engineer. The report Mr R 
has provided is a handwritten note without any photos or explanation in support. So, when 
reviewing the two reports Im not persuaded that Nelson have acted unfairly by turning down 
Mr Rs claim. It therefore follows that Im not going to tell them to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman