DRN-2254203
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A was involved in an accident and reported the incident to the police and his insurer, 
Admiral. Admiral looked into the claim but felt that it couldnt defend Mr A if the matter went 
to court and settled liability on a split liability basis which meant Mr A had a fault claim. 
As Mr A wasnt happy about this he complained to Admiral. It looked into things and 
accepted that it got a few things wrong. Admiral acknowledged that it didnt call Mr A back 
when it said it would and that it couldve been more proactive around possible CCTV 
evidence. But Admiral didnt think that it got liability wrong or that it could defend Mr A at 
court. So Mr A complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A and although he sympathised with his position he 
didnt think that Admiral had done anything wrong. He explained that without any 
independent evidence supporting Mr As position he didnt think Admiral had acted 
unreasonably.
Mr A didnt agree. He maintained that he wasnt at fault for the accident; that the coming 
together of the cars was very minor and couldnt have caused any injury to the occupants of 
the other car; and that other evidence shouldve been gained from the police officers who 
attended amongst other things. So the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr As frustration as he clearly believes he shouldnt be held at fault in any 
way for the accident and that the level of damage caused was very low, and he was at the 
scene so I can understand this. But although I can understand why he has complained and 
why he believes he wasnt at fault I have to be fair to both sides. And I dont think Admiral 
has acted unreasonably here. I know that this will be very disappointing for Mr A, but Ill 
explain why.
Our investigator has explained it isnt the role of this service to decide liability, which is a 
matter for the courts. But we do look to ensure insurers have acted in a fair and reasonable 
way. 
Admiral, like most motor insurers, have a clause in the contract that allows them to take over 
the settlement of the claim. This gives it the right to decide whether to proceed to court or 
settle a claim as it has in this instance. And court proceedings are uncertain and expensive, 
so insurers are cautious about going to court and wasting money and the courts time 
unnecessarily. They look to consider the costs involved and the likelihood of success in 
making these decisions.
But, as our investigator explained, it isnt the role of this service to decide liability, which is a 
matter for the courts. But we do look to ensure insurers have acted in a fair and reasonable 
way in deciding to settle matters. And make a reasonable assessment of the claim based on 
a clear understanding of the available evidence and circumstances surrounding the claim. 
With this in mind, I have carefully considered how Admiral handled Mr As claim. 
Admiral initially looked to fully defend Mr A. But as the other side didnt  agree it went on to 
settle the matter on a split liability (50/50) basis. And as the two drivers were merging into 
one lane that doesnt seem an unreasonable position. 
It is very difficult to gauge who was at fault for an accident when two lanes merge into one. 
And when Admiral considered all the evidence it didnt think it could fully defend Mr A. This 
was because it didnt have any independent evidence to support him. And when its 
investigator interviewed him he wasnt aware of a few key things around the circumstances 
of the accident (for example he wasnt aware of the coming together of the cars or that the 
other car was alongside him before impact). I know Mr A feels that he didnt get the 
opportunity to sign his statement and questions its accuracy. But Ive listened to the first 
notice of loss call when Mr A describes the accident and it is clear that the other driver 
blamed him as much as he blamed them.
As Ive already outlined I cant decide liability as that is a matter for the courts and I cant say 
that Admirals final position is unreasonable. It tried to defend Mr A and appointed an 
investigator to gain Mr As account; looked to see if the police had any evidence to assist; 
and looked to see if there was any CCTV evidence or independent evidence  but 
unfortunately there wasnt anything to support Mr As position.
I know Mr A believes the attending police officers couldve provided evidence to support him 
(and Admiral did look to get a police report, but there wasnt a full report provided by the 
police as this was a low-level traffic incident). But the attending police officers didnt witness 
the accident in any event. They only dealt with events after the incident - although I agree 
that they couldve commented on the damage to the cars and about any physical injuries the 
third party sustained. 
However, it isnt disputed that the third party didnt feel any pain around the time of the actual 
accident. They went on to suffer pain a few days later, which often happens, and 
(importantly) they provided medical evidence to support their position. So I dont think 
Admiral acted unreasonably in accepting the minor injury claim from the third party.
Having considered all of this and trying to defend Mr A, Admiral eventually accepted liability. 
I know Mr A isnt happy about this, as outlined, but I think Admiral has considered all of the 
evidence it could gain before deciding liability. And I think the best outcome it couldve 
achieved in the circumstances is a 50/50 split which unfortunately leaves Mr A with a fault 
claim. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 Colin Keegan
Ombudsman