DRN-3026874
The complaint
Miss K complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) was wrong to apply
a damage charge when she returned a car that she had been supplied with under a hire
purchase agreement (Agreement).  
What happened
In August 2015 Miss K entered into an agreement for a used car costing £15,105. The car
was approximately three and half years old and had covered 41,495 miles.
Everything else being equal Miss K undertook to pay BMWFS an advance payment of
£2,200, 47 monthly payments of £207.89 followed by 1 monthly payment of £7,367.69 
making a total repayable of £19,338.52.
In May 2019 Miss K took the decision to voluntary terminate the agreement and return the
car to BMWFS  as was her right. At this point in time the car had covered 90,628 miles
against an agreed mileage (to that point in time) of 75,995  a difference of 14,633.
Following the cars collection BMWFS charged Miss K £690.68 (14,633 x 4.72 pence) for
excess miles travelled and £232 for damage  a total of £922.68.
Miss K paid the excess mileage charge (plus 68 pence) to leave an outstanding balance in
July 2019 of £231.32  in essence the damage charge of £232.
Miss K initially submitted that she shouldnt be held liable for this damage charge.
The damage charge was made up of the following:
left hand front alloy wheel  scratches exceeding 100mm £26
right hand front alloy wheel  scratches exceeding 100mm £26
left hand rear alloy wheel  scratches exceeding 100mm £26
left hand front door  paint chips to door edge £40
rear bumper  dent exceeding 15mm £114
Miss Ks complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
shouldnt be upheld.
Miss K responded to say that she was prepared to accept liability for the door and wheel
damage totalling £118, but not the rear bumper damage totalling £114.
The investigator considered Miss Ks response to her view but wasnt persuaded to change
her mind. Therefore, Miss Ks complaint was passed to me for review and decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in August 2021.
In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of any doubt, Im only considering Miss Ks complaint about the £232
damage charge given that she appears to accept that the excess mileage charge is valid,
and she has paid it in full plus 68 pence.
Under the terms of the agreement, Miss K is liable for certain other charges. This includes
charges for damage beyond fair wear and tear.
So, in this instance, Ive to decide if the damage relating to three of the alloy wheels, one of
the doors and the rear bumper is within or outside fair wear and tear.
In deciding whether the damage to three of the alloy wheels, one of the doors and the rear
bumper was outside fair wear and tear BMWFS had regard to the British Vehicle Renting
and Leasing Association guidelines (BVRLA).
Now had Miss K took possession of a new car or say a used car that was a year old and had
travelled 10,000 miles, I might have agreed that having regard to the BVRLA guidelines in
determining what was or wasnt fair wear and tear on the cars return would have been
entirely appropriate.
But in this case what Miss K acquired was a car that was approximately three and half years
old and which had covered 41,495 miles and which BMWFS expected to be returned
(everything else being equal) when it would be approximately seven and half years old with
77,495 miles on the clock. It should also be remembered that the car was returned when it
had travelled 90,628 and for which BMWFS charged Miss K £690.68.
So, in the particular circumstances of this case, I think that what BMWFS should have done
was taken a more pragmatic and holistic approach to the damage on return of the car when
deciding what was, or wasnt, fair wear and tear, rather than applying the BVRLA guidelines.
Now Ive looked at the photographs of the car provided by both BMWFS and Miss K. And
having done so I think its entirely fair for BMWFS to charge Miss K £78 for the damage to
the three alloy wheels. However, I dont think its appropriate for it to charge Miss K for the
damage to the door and the rear bumper. I say the latter because in my view the damage to
the door could be viewed as being relatively minor and entirely commensurate with the cars
age on its return.
Turning to the bumper Ive to say that I dont find the photographs provided by BMWFS to be
particularly clear or persuasive. I would also add that the photographs provided by Miss K,
appropriately time stamped, dont suggest any major damage to the bumper either. So, with
this in mind, I currently find that its not appropriate for BMWFS to charge anything for what it
says is damage to the rear bumper.
So, in summary, its my current view that BMWFS should reduce the damage charge its
seeking from Miss K to £77.32 being £78 for damage to the three alloy wheels less 68 pence
already paid by Miss K.Now I dont know if BMWFS has recorded any adverse information with third party credit
reference agencies in respect of Miss Ks agreement. But given how quickly Miss K paid the
excess mileage charge and given that I think Miss K acted both fairly and reasonably in
disputing the damage charge of £232 and not paying it, its my view that any recorded
adverse information should be removed. However, if Miss K doesnt pay BMWFS £77.32
within 60 days of any final decision issued by me being accepted by her, then I think its
entirely fair and reasonable for BMWFS to record this sum as being in arrears with third
party credit reference agencies.
Miss K responded to say that she accepted my provisional decision.
BMWFS didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date I gave for the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Miss K says she accepted my provisional decision and BMWFS didnt respond to it 
in the time I gave, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm 
them as final. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and that BMW Financial
Services(GB) Limited must:
Reduce the sum its seeking from Miss K to £77.32.
Remove any adverse information it might have recorded with third party credit
reference agencies in respect of Miss Ks agreement. But if Miss K doesnt pay it
£77.32 within 60 days of this final decision being accepted by her, then
it can record this sum as being in arrears with third party credit reference agencies if
it wishes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman