DRN-2955550
Complaint
Mr B says Clydesdale Bank PLC, trading as Virgin Money, mis-sold him four Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) policies with four loans. 
Mr B raises a number of points and he says the redress he received from the mis-sales 
hasnt been calculated correctly and he is due back more money than he got.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Virgin.
Background
I see that one of our adjudicators provided Mr B with a view about this complaint. They said 
that they didnt think the PPI redress had been incorrectly calculated, so we shouldnt uphold 
his complaint about either this or the wider points Mr B raised.
Mr B disagrees with this and has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done this, Im afraid Im not 
upholding the complaint. 
In 2021, Virgin upheld his complaint for the mis-sold PPI policies on his four loans ending 
5545, 6823, 6366 & 9824. Virgin made offer of £3,642.40.
Id like to place on record that I understand that Mr B honestly and genuinely feels aggrieved 
about the matters he has raised. Nevertheless, his complaint points are wide ranging and 
many are somewhat general observations, rather than specific things I can address for him. 
Ive therefore tried to narrow down the relevant issues, so I can give comprehensive 
answers.
General PPI mis-sale complaint points
A. Mr B says that Virgin ought to have proactively contacted him in or around 2011 to 
compensate him for the mis-sold PPI he himself later needed to raise complaints 
about. He basically implies that PPI was almost always mis-sold, therefore him 
complaining was not only unnecessary, but it meant it all took much longer than it 
needed have to sort things out and get compensation. However, as our adjudicator 
told Mr B, whilst we now know many policies were indeed mis-sold, many were not. 
And so Im afraid it was necessary for individual consumers (some were represented 
by others) to raise complaints if they felt they had been the subject of a mis-sale. 
Obviously, it would have been open to Mr B to raise any specific concerns he had at 
the time and I dont think its helpful to use what we know now and apply it to over 10 
years ago.
B. Mr B makes another somewhat general point about the redress he eventually was 
paid, being subject to interest added at a rate of 8%pa. This amounted to £3,642.40. 
He makes the point that he would have paid a higher rate of interest on his loans. 
That may be true, but we are bound, Im afraid, by the rules which say 8% is the 
figure to be used to calculate the interest. Mr B will have benefited from that 8% rate 
from the point of when the PPI was sold to him until when the redress was eventually 
paid. In short, the calculations used are in accordance with the rules. 
Specific loans
C. An associated point relates to the four loans he had  this is Mr Bs main complaint. 
Our adjudicator comprehensively set out why they thought the redress offered was 
calculated correctly for each loan and PPI sale. We know Virgin admits these loans 
were mis-sold, so I cant add much to that, other than to say I agree that Mr B has 
been correctly compensated for the four mis-sales, with interest added.
D. Again, connected with this, I see Mr B then said he didnt think hed been paid at all 
for certain aspects of the redress on the loans. Our adjudicator has shown he was  
and Im satisfied he was too, having seen documentary evidence. I do accept this 
aspect is complicated to a degree because of the type of PPI Mr B had, and the fact 
he frequently rolled-over some loans. He was therefore due back certain 
percentages of the PPI, given when the cancellation of the existing loan took place  
and the new one was taken out. But Ive looked at the figures used each time and 
they are in accordance with the normal approach we expect to see.
E. Its certainly unfortunate that Mr B was initially told the loans he had couldnt be 
traced. I do accept how frustrating this must have been, but I find no evidence of it 
being, as he suggests, a deliberate act. We do occasionally see such cases, 
particularly ones that stretch back a while and where loans have long since being 
paid off. Businesses are only required to keep records for certain lengths of time. 
Nevertheless, Mr B has been compensated in as much as the delays caused by not 
locating the loans initially, will have continued to be the subject of the 8% interest 
mentioned above. Clearly, this shouldnt have happened and Virgin ought to have 
done a better job here.
Wider financial difficulties
F. Mr B complained that had he never been mis-sold this PPI on the Virgin loans in the 
first place, he would not have subsequently endured more serious and widespread 
financial difficulties. Im really sorry to hear that Mr B ended up with these problems, 
but our adjudicator pointed to other serious financial problems Mr B seemed to have 
at the time, unconnected with these specific loans. I broadly agree with what Mr B 
has been told. The points made by Mr B are somewhat general ones again, with no 
evidence to show these four PPI policies caused the wider financial problems he had. 
Ive considered their size and duration and that Mr B himself points to similar 
disputes with other banks he was a customer of. I dont find that these four Virgin PPI 
policies caused the major problems he alleged. Whether they formed a very small 
contributory part is always debatable, but this isnt supported here by any hard facts 
or data, in my view.
In summary, I can see Mr B is very engaged in these complaints and feels strongly about 
them. However, I think the redress hes been paid was ultimately the correct amount and the 
interest used was correct also. Ive dealt with all the other issues above and I dont uphold 
any of the complaint points he made. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B.
Final decision
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I do not direct Clydesdale Bank PLC to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman