DRN-2944982
The complaint
Ms F complains that Santander UK Plc declined a cash withdrawal she tried to make at one 
of its branches.
 
What happened
Ms F wanted to make a cash withdrawal so called Santander to check how much she could 
withdraw. She says she was told £5,000. She visited a Santander branch to make a cash 
withdrawal of £2,000. She was asked what it was for by the branch staff and Ms F said it 
was for a medical report for an accident shed been involved in. The branch staff contacted 
the solicitor who was assisting Ms F with her claim and asked some generic questions. 
Following this, the branch staff were concerned that this may be a scam, so didnt authorise 
the withdrawal.  
Ms F complained. She said shed called to find out how much cash she could withdraw at 
one time before visiting the branch and wasnt told that she may need proof of what the 
money was for. She says as shes disabled it takes a lot of effort to get to a branch and she 
was very upset that she couldnt access her money.
Santander explained that the questions asked by its staff were to protect Ms F. It confirmed 
she was still able to use telephone banking or her debit card to access funds or make 
payments. It said no restrictions had been placed on Ms Fs account, but this transaction had 
been declined for Ms Fs security.
Ms F referred the complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. During 
this time, Ms F received further correspondence from Santander asking her to verify her 
identity to prevent her account being blocked. Ms F thought this was likely linked to the same 
issue so also raised it with our investigator. Our investigator raised this as a separate 
complaint.
Once hed considered the circumstances of this complaint, our investigator didnt think it 
should be upheld. He thought Santander was entitled to decline the transaction for the 
reasons it had given. Mrs F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. So, its been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to make it clear that Im only considering the complaint about the declined 
cash withdrawal. Its clear Ms F still has concerns about being asked for additional ID. But as 
Ive mentioned above, this is being considered as a separate complaint. 
Ms F has responded to our investigators opinion in great detail. Whilst Ive considered 
everything she said, Im going to limit my decision to just addressing the crux of her 
complaint - the declined cash withdrawal. I hope she realises I mean no disrespect by this, it 
simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
This type of large withdrawal mightve occurred before on Ms Fs account, but it wasnt a 
regular transaction. And given that it was a large amount, I think it was reasonable that the 
staff in branch had concerns and asked further questions of Ms F. 
When Ms F explained it was related to a personal injury claim, I think the branch staff were 
right to be concerned. Whilst Ive no doubt Ms F was being honest about the reason she 
wanted the cash, personal injury claims are a common theme which scammers use. So, I 
can understand why Santander had further concerns and questions.
Santander contacted the solicitor and asked generic questions regarding its claims. It didnt 
discuss Ms F or her personal circumstances with it directly so I cant see there has been any 
breach of Ms Fs information. After speaking with the solicitors, Santander wasnt satisfied 
with the reasons why Ms F wanted to withdraw the cash. As she couldnt provide any further 
information, such as an invoice, Santander declined the transaction. I understand this 
mustve been hugely frustrating for Ms F. but Im satisfied they were entitled to take this 
action under the accounts terms and conditions, and did it with Ms Fs best interests in 
mind. From what Ive seen no cash was actually due at this point anyway and Ms F wanted it 
as a back up in case it was needed. 
However, there wouldve likely been a number of ways she couldve paid for the medical 
report instead such as using a debit card or via a bank transfer using internet or telephone 
banking. Ms F says bank transfers are less secure, but I cant agree with that. Bank transfers 
have many security checks in place, and typically go straight to the recipient whereas cash 
can be lost or stolen whist being held.
I do understand its very difficult for Ms F to get into a branch, and shed made special 
arrangements to do so. And its clear she prefers to use cash for most day to day expenses. 
I think this is most likely what the cash was for (as well as for a potential medical report), but 
this doesnt reflect what she initially told the branch. Had she told the branch staff this, I think 
its more likely the withdrawal wouldve been authorised as it wouldnt have given staff as 
much concern as the reasons she gave.
Im aware Ms F did call telephone banking beforehand to find out what the maximum she 
could get was, however, this cant take into account circumstances where staff later become 
worried about possible fraud. I also think its worth noting that Ms F originally told staff it was 
to pay for a medical, and then later she said that the medical didnt yet need paying for. I 
suspect these inconsistencies, whilst not intended by Ms F, further concerned the branch.
Ms F is concerned that future cash withdrawals may be declined by Santander. However, 
Santander has told us that each future request will be treated individually. Large 
withdrawals, such as this one, which are unusual for an account may require questions to be 
answered or proof of what the money is for. Santander cant fully explain its security 
processes due to the sensitive nature of them. However, Im satisfied the checks it has in 
place are fair, and that its offered a number of other options for Ms F to make payments in 
the future without needing to leave her home. Ms F has said she prefers to use cash to pay 
for things. If this is the case, when she next visits the branch, she should be clear exactly 
why she is taking out the amount she requests. This is less likely to concern staff. 
Lastly, Mrs F says she no longer has her internet login details. If she contacts Santander, it 
should be straightforward to have this set up again. 
My final decisionWhilst I understand Ms F feels very strongly about this, I dont uphold her complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman