DRN-3128082
The complaint
Mrs D complains that she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance, 
(PPI), policy. Its been agreed that AXA France IARD, (AXA), should accept 
responsibility for the sale. For simplicity Ive referred to AXA throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs D took out the PPI at the same time as taking out a store card in 1997. The sale took 
place at the store. Following a successful claim, the insurance would have paid 15% of 
the outstanding balance on Mrs Ds store card a month had she been unable to work 
because of accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. And these payments would 
have been made until she could return to work or, if sooner, the balance had been 
cleared.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mrs D 
disagreed, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive followed this in making my decision in Mrs Ds case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), I 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Mrs D says she wasnt asked if she wanted the store card. And was never told that it was 
added. However, on balance, I think that Mrs D knew that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because I dont think that I can reasonably rely solely on Mrs Ds 
recollection of what happened over 20 years ago.
Ive seen the store card application form signed by Mrs D. This has a section in it dealing 
with PPI. I can see that there is a tick in the box in this section requesting PPI. Below this 
section is another section dealing with another type of cover. I can see that the box there 
hasnt been ticked. Its possible that Mrs D didnt complete the application form herself. But, 
in that case, I think its likely that the store assistant would have discussed these two types 
of cover with Mrs D before completing the form that way for her. 
Further, Mrs D would have had the opportunity to check the application before signing it and 
could have questioned the request for the PPI if she hadnt wanted it. And I can see that it 
appears that Mrs D has initialled over the tick for PPI. Because the sale was so long ago, I 
can understand why Mrs D no longer remembers this.
AXA didnt advise Mrs D to take the policy, so it would have been up to her to make the 
decision whether she wanted it or not. But AXA still had to give Mrs D clear, fair and not-
misleading information about the PPI so she could make an informed decision as to whether 
it was suitable for her needs. Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs D about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But she chose to take out the policy  so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover. And, knowing what I do about her circumstances at the time 
and the terms of the policy, she was eligible for it. And she wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limits  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition. 
And the monthly benefits, following a successful claim, would have been paid in addition to 
any sick pay or savings Mrs D may have had. So it could have been useful to her if 
something went wrong. So I dont think better information about it would have changed Mrs 
Ds mind and stopped her buying it. 
So I find that Mrs D hasnt lost out because of anything that AXA may have done 
wrong during the sale. Accordingly theres nothing that I require AXA to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman