DRN-3044515
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) 
relates to their request, which was turned down, for additional borrowing on their mortgage. 
As a result, Mr and Mrs F had to find a new lender and incurred an early repayment charge 
(ERC) to Virgin, which they feel is unfair. They also complain that their complaint was not 
looked into fairly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F obtained a mortgage with Virgin in October 2019. They said they particularly 
picked Virgin because they wanted the ability to port their mortgage and the option to take 
out additional lending in the future during the term of their mortgage.
Just prior to the national lockdown in March 2020, Mr and Mrs F found a buyer for their 
home but hadnt at that point found their new home. When lockdown restrictions eased, they 
were able to find a new property and through their financial advisor sought to obtain 
additional lending for the new property.
Virgin declined to deal with Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage advisor even though he had arranged 
the original mortgage with Virgin, which upset them as they then had to deal with Virgin 
themselves directly. They found the process slow as Virgins staff were working from home 
and were upset when Virgin told them that they had introduced a policy of not lending to 
anyone who was on furlough. At that time Mrs F was on furlough although she had a stable 
permanent position and her employers had indicated her job was not at risk. Mr and Mrs F 
also asked if the ERC might be waived if they were to change mortgage providers, but Virgin 
refused. Despite complaining and asking for their application to be reviewed, Virgin did not 
change their stance. Ultimately Mr and Mrs F switched mortgage providers and incurred an 
ERC.
Mr and Mrs F feel that Virgins furlough rule is very unfair especially as they say they 
satisfied all other criteria, even taking account of Mrs Fs furloughed salary, and that they 
were placed into a position through no fault of their own and in circumstances nobody could 
have foreseen.
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy with Virgins final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Virgin hadnt 
done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
 
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I do understand the importance of Mr and Mrs Fs house move and the reasons for it. And I 
can understand why, in the light of that, they feel Virgins decision is unfair. Ive taken 
account of their view and of course Virgins when considering whether they acted fairly and 
reasonably, and Ive had a look at and considered all the available evidence. 
There are a number of aspects to this complaint; the imposition and application of the 
furlough rule to Mr and Mrs F, the ERC charge, the refusal to deal with their mortgage 
adviser, and the manner in which Mr and Mrs Fs complaint was dealt with. Mr and Mrs F do 
not dispute the terms of the mortgage they had with Virgin and that contractually an ERC is 
payable. As they have said their complaint is, 
based around the circumstances that led to Clydesdale enforcing these charges, and 
the fact that as an institution they made no effort whatsoever to establish our viability 
as ongoing customers. This was not a new application for a mortgage, we were 
existing customers - with excellent credit scores, and able to provide proof of 
permanent employment.
The Furlough Policy
All of this took place during the Covid-19 pandemic; as we know, this had a huge impact on 
both consumers and businesses alike and which is something I have to consider when 
assessing any complaints. 
This service isnt the regulator; regulation is the responsibility of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Our service therefore doesnt have the power to make rules for financial 
businesses, or direct that they change their policy or procedures. 
We only look at what happened in the circumstances of the individual complaint and check 
that, in this case Virgin, followed its rules and procedures  as well as those set by the 
regulator and any relevant industry guidance and good practice - and applied them fairly.
It is understandable and reasonable for Virgin to make commercial decisions on the products 
it offers and especially so as a result of the uncertainty the pandemic generated within the 
financial markets, alongside its usual considerations. I think Virgin is entitled to make such 
decisions as it wishes concerning the operation of its business, and I am satisfied that is 
what it has done here in choosing to not take furloughed income into account when 
assessing affordability.
I think it is important to remember that the full impact of the pandemic was unknown, and 
many people were and have been affected financially. It is understandable that lenders were 
worried about their borrowers ongoing ability to cope financially in the face of a potentially 
prolonged economic uncertainty. That means, in my view, that it was reasonable for a lender 
such as Virgin to adapt their policies to reflect this changed position.
In addition, section 9 of the Mortgage Illustration makes it clear that although Mr and Mrs F 
had the right to port the mortgage, if they wanted to borrow more money, they would have 
needed to make a new mortgage application. In making a new mortgage application Mr and 
Mrs F would then need to be able, at that time, to satisfy Virgins lending, affordability and 
eligibility criteria. I think this shows that what Mr and Mrs F were trying to do achieve in 
porting their mortgage over was never in fact guaranteed. The issue which flows from this is whether Mr and Mrs F then met those criteria, not whether imposing the charge is valid or 
not. 
That brings me to the application of that policy to Mr and Mrs Fs own circumstances. I know 
they have said that Virgins own adviser thought the policy to be unfair. Virgin have made no 
comment about that, and so I can accept what Mr and Mrs F have said about that. However, 
I dont think that changes anything because the view or opinion of a front-line adviser cant 
undermine or set aside Virgins business policy. So, whilst I dont doubt the adviser may 
have thought it unfair, that doesnt make it unfair.
The more important question is whether or not this rule has been fairly applied to Mr and Mrs 
F. They have described it as an absolute rule, and I would agree, which means it is being 
applied to everyone. So, to that extent Mr and Mrs F arent being treated unfairly by 
reference to other customers. But should Virgin have departed from their policy to make an 
exception for Mr and Mrs F? I dont think so, because I come back to Virgin being entitled to 
make whatever policy they wish, and that is something I cant interfere with. Their reasoning 
for changing their lending criteria is based on sound principles, being that the financial 
markets had become uncertain, requiring them to adapt and change. So, whether or not Mr 
and Mrs F could have actually afforded the mortgage, doesnt circumvent the fact that it is for 
Virgin to decide their own lending criteria. 
The ERC Charge
The Mortgage Illustration that Mr and Mrs F agreed to when securing the mortgage sets out 
the ERC charges. It explains when an ERC will be payable and gives cash examples of how 
much at specific points over the term of the mortgage. Im satisfied that the ERC was clearly 
presented in the Mortgage Illustration and Mr and Mrs F do not dispute the existence of such 
charges or assert that they were unaware of them.
I understand that Mr and Mrs F feel they were placed into a position where if they wanted to 
proceed with their new home purchase it required moving to a new lender. And in so doing 
that triggered the imposition of the ERC. Whilst that is a significant amount of money for Mr 
and Mrs F, it is nevertheless something they agreed to. I appreciate that had it not been for 
the pandemic matters might have been different, but I dont think that is sufficient for me to 
say that Virgin, in imposing the ERC is acting unfairly. It isnt, it is merely sticking to the 
agreement made, and whilst Mr and Mrs F had quite obviously not done anything to cause 
the circumstances they find themselves in, neither had Virgin. 
Refusal to deal with the mortgage adviser 
I again can understand why Mr and Mrs F would have preferred their application to be 
manged by their financial adviser. The distinction here, is that Mr and Mrs F were making an 
application for additional lending on their existing mortgage rather than making a fresh 
mortgage application. Virgin are again entitled to make their own policy on how they deal 
with such applications, and I cannot see that requiring their borrowers to make the 
application directly is unreasonable.
The Complaints Procedure
I can empathise with Mr and Mrs F regarding their experience. Having said that, this element 
of complaint is not one I can look into. Im afraid that the rules which govern what I can and 
cant look into say that I can only look at an act or omission by a firm in carrying out one or 
more of the regulated or other covered activities our service has the jurisdiction to consider, 
and unfortunately complaint handling is not one of those activities, unless it is closely linked 
to the activity complained of, and this isnt. As such Im not able to tell Virgin how it should 
deal with complaints, nor can I make any order or award in respect of this, as our service 
doesnt regulate the banking industry. That is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority.I have also noted Mr and Mrs Fs view regarding the comments made by HM Government 
regarding furloughed workers and the encouragement given by Ministers to financial 
institutions. However, those pronouncements were not in the form of any binding rule and 
were for financial institutions to consider only.
So, although Mr and Mrs F will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Virgin 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman