DRN-4341910
The complaint
Mr R complains Santander UK Plc made an error on his credit card account leading to a 
charge he didnt recognise. Theyve then continued charging him interest and fees which he 
thinks is unfair.
What happened
Mr R received his September 2022 statement and paid £324.57 towards it. In his October 
2022 statement he saw hed been charged £7.37 in what he assumed was an error by 
Santander. So, he complained to Santander and not having received a reply, complained 
several more times. Mr R said he didnt get a reply until when he was abroad  sometime 
between end of January and the middle of February 2023  and in the meantime Santander 
continued to add late fees and charges.
In a letter dated 7 October 2022 Santander said the full amount of the statement was 
actually £342.57  not the £324.57 Mr R had paid. They said this meant interest had been 
charged, and although Santander hadnt made an error, they chose to waive this £7.37.
Mr R had continued to contact Santander, as he said he hadnt received this letter  and 
charges continued to accrue on his account. 
In a response of 12 April 2023 Santander decided not to refund any further charges or 
interest, explaining any interest charged since October isnt interest on interest. They said 
Mr R hadnt made payments to his account in January or February 2023. Santander added 
theyd reviewed each month since October 2022, and found outstanding balances are left at 
the end of each month  meaning legitimate interest is being charged. And, in months where 
payments werent made, fees have then been added.
Unhappy with this Mr R asked us to look into things. He let us know he wanted to move 
home but was now concerned about missed payments showing on his credit file and asked 
for these to be removed. He also asked for the charges to be removed, compensation, the 
case handlers conduct to be reviewed and an apology.
One of our Investigators considered things, but found overall Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong, so she wouldnt be asking them to take any of the actions Mr R mentioned.
Mr R didnt accept this. He said the charges were in dispute, Santander should have made 
sure he accepted the outcome, and it wasnt right for them to have added charges when hed 
acted in good faith at all times. As Mr R didnt accept our Investigators outcome the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear this situation has caused Mr R some frustration. I do though need to make it clear I 
can only require Santander to take the actions Mr R has asked for, if I find theyve made the 
error leading to these losses. In this case, Mr R now accepts he made a mistake in paying 
his credit card bill in September 2022. So, I dont need to consider that.
Instead, I need to consider whether Santander have treated Mr R fairly in continuing to apply 
interest and charges when Mr R says the amount owed was in dispute.
Mr R says he didnt get the letter dated 7 October 2022. Ive seen no reason to disbelieve 
him on this point. So, Ill accept he didnt get this letter  as he says, otherwise why would he 
have continued to write to Santander asking for an explanation of the charge.
Why the letter was delivered so late to him I cant say, but Ive seen no reason to think 
Santander sent the letter late. So, from Santanders point of view the amount was no longer 
in dispute  because theyd answered the complaint. 
Crucially, this also means I cant say Santander did anything wrong in notifying Mr R about 
the reason for the charge  nor was there any delay on their part in doing so. I appreciate 
Mr R didnt get the notification for some time, but I cant say this was Santanders fault.
In addition, the terms and conditions of Mr Rs credit card account  as with every credit card 
account  will require payments to be made. Mr R has told us he chose to withhold those 
payments because the amount was still in dispute.
On this point I think Mr R has been the architect of his own misfortune. Even if the account is 
in dispute the contractual terms and conditions require customers to make payments 
towards their credit card account. So, in circumstances where a customer chooses to 
withhold those contractually required payments  and the financial business applies fees, 
interest, charges and reports missed payments to the CRAs  we wouldnt generally say 
theyd be doing anything wrong as a result.
Mr R withheld his payments  and Santander have applied interest and charges because of 
this as well as saying theyve reported this information to the CRAs. In the circumstances, I 
cant say theyve done anything wrong.
I have noted in Mr Rs letter dated 2 October 2023 he says he acted in good faith at all times 
and thinks hes being penalised unfairly. Overall, Id have to find Santander did something 
wrong in order to uphold this complaint  and I havent seen they have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman