DRN-4332747
The complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) havent acted fairly in only offering to 
refund 50% of the premium paid when he was dual insured on his home insurance. 
What happened
Mr P says he took out a home insurance policy with AXA in 2020. He says during the sales 
journey he had to agree to automatic renewal but the information on the page said AXA 
would write to him around the time the policy was due to renew. Mr P says he didnt receive 
any communication from AXA in 2021 and he bought a new policy from another insurer. He 
says it was only in 2022, while looking for a policy, that he discovered hed been dual 
insured in 2021 as AXA had automatically renewed his policy. Mr P raised this with AXA, 
and they offered to refund 50% of the premium paid. Mr P complained about not receiving 
any renewal documentation in 2021. He says, had he received this, he either wouldnt have 
renewed or negotiated a lower price. 
AXA responded and explained they sent renewal documentation to Mr P in advance of the 
renewal date and, because the policy was set to renew automatically, the policy was 
renewed in 2021 as they didnt hear from Mr P to decline the renewal. They agreed with the 
decision to refund 50% of the premium on the basis Mr P was dual insured.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P. He agreed with AXAs decision to refund 50% of 
the premium. Mr P disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided AXAs offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr P 
will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Its understandable that Mr P didnt want to pay for two policies when he could only be 
indemnified once. So, Ive looked to see how this situation arose and whether AXA made 
any errors during the renewal process. 
I can see, when Mr P took out his policy, he had to tick a box authorising the automatic 
renewal of his policy. There doesnt appear to be any dispute about this. AXA confirm they 
didnt then receive any contact from Mr P to opt-out of automatic renewal. 
Then in June 2021  around a month before the policy was set to automatically renew - I can 
see AXA sent renewal documentation. This quotes a price of £481.11 and says the policy 
will automatically renew on 2 July. 
I understand Mr P says he never received this documentation. Ive seen the renewal letter 
and it contains the correct address for Mr P. In addition to this, AXA have also provided a 
screenshot of their system, and this shows an audit trail of the communications history. This 
shows a renewal letter was sent in June. So, while I dont doubt Mr Ps account of not having 
received the renewal documentation, I cant say AXA have made an error here as theyve 
demonstrated the renewal documentation was sent to the correct address. The renewal 
letter also explains AXA will collect the premium amount using Mr Ps latest payment card. 
So, a payment wouldve been taken from Mr Ps account around the time of renewal.       
The circumstances of this complaint therefore appear accidental. Mr P says the automatic 
renewal of his policy isnt the key issue of his complaint. If theres no mis-sale of the policy or 
no business mistake and its purely a case of Mr P accidentally putting himself in a position 
where he was dual insured, then Id expect normal industry practice to be followed. Thats for 
both businesses to refund 50% of their respective premiums. This would put Mr P back in a 
reasonable position  having effectively paid one premium to be covered once. This is 
because, in the event of a claim, both insurers would have 50% liability for it  so it follows 
they should receive 50% of the premium to match the risk theyre taking. Although neither 
business has made a mistake in this situation, its not fair for them to keep more than 50% of 
the premium when theyre not liable for more than 50% of the risk. So, in this case, AXAs 
offer to refund 50% of the 2021 premium follows normal industry practice and is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I acknowledge Mr P wants AXA to refund his full premium 
as he doesnt feel it was competitive in comparison to his other policy. But that wouldnt be 
fair in the circumstances of this case and goes against normal industry practice. Mr P could 
consider making a complaint to his other insurer, to recover 50% of the premium paid to 
them.
I can see Mr P says there was no subsequent communication confirming the automatic 
renewal or the price hed paid  and he feels correspondence confirming the policy has 
renewed should be a minimum expected standard. I do acknowledge Mr Ps point, but we 
dont have the power to direct a business on what their renewal process should be. In this 
case, AXA have sent renewal documentation which sets out key information to allow Mr P to 
make an informed decision on whether to renew the policy. So, I think AXA have given 
sufficient information here, even if their process doesnt include any subsequent renewal 
confirmation correspondence. 
I note Mr P says he also didnt receive the 2022 renewal documents. It is very unfortunate if 
the 2021 and 2022 renewal documentation wasnt received by Mr P but, again, Ive seen the 
renewal letter and its addressed correctly. And the audit trail from AXAs system shows this 
renewal was sent.   
 
I understand Mr P will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge his reasons for why he feels 
AXA should refund his full premium. But for the reasons Ive explained, that wouldnt be fair 
in the circumstances. I wish to reassure Mr P Ive read and considered everything he has 
sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I 
havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service.
My final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc have already made an offer to refund 50% of the 2021 premium to 
settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc should refund 50% of the 2021 premium to   
Mr P, if they havent done so already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman