DRN-1679184
 
The complaint
Mrs D complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance ("PPI") policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management 
company.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs D took out in 
December 1998. It was sold in store and covered her for accident, sickness and  
unemployment.
It's been agreed that AXA should take responsibility for the complaint. To keep things 
simple, I'll refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs D didn't agree 
saying, in summary, that:
She would have received generous sick pay which would have covered all of her bill 
payments.
She was told the only way she could have the store card was to take the PPI - she 
wasn't given the option to have the card without it.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs D's case.
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs D's complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mrs D aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding 
PPI.
Mrs D says she was told she had to have the PPI to get the card. And I accept that's 
possible. But its also possible Mrs D wanted the PPI but cant now remember agreeing to it 
given the time thats passed. I've looked at the paperwork that was completed at the time. 
The store card application form included a separate section headed Account Cover" and the 
instruction "only sign this box if you require Account Cover". Mrs D signed,
separately from the main application, to confirm that she wanted it. I cant say what was 
discussed, if anything, at the time of the application, but I think the paperwork made it clear that PPI was optional and I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect Mrs D to check over 
the document she was signing. The section about PPI was relatively brief, so I think Mrs D 
would have still been able to do this even though the card and PPI were taken out in a store.
So, overall, I think AXA made Mrs D aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take 
it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt look  like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she could have 
benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about 
these exclusions or limits would have affected her decision take out PPI.
I've taken into account that Mrs D would have received generous sick pay from her employer 
if she couldn't work due to sickness or an accident - she's provided evidence to show that 
she would have received 90% of her pay for 12 months. But, as noted earlier, AXA didn't 
recommend the PPI so it didn't need to check if it was suitable. The PPI would have covered 
Mrs D's card payments if she was unable to work due to sickness or an accident until she 
returned to work. This would have been in addition to any sick pay she received. It also 
covered her if she'd become unemployed. So it could have been a useful benefit despite her 
existing arrangements.
Overall, I dont think Mrs D has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman