DRN-1581194
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr W took out a PPI policy in 1993 at the same time as they applied for a secured
loan in one of the banks branches. The policy was in Mr Ws sole name and gave him 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S and Mr W disagreed so the complaint 
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I have based on my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, based on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time.  
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs S and Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs S and Mr W say they have no recollection of PPI being mentioned during the 
loan application. But theyve also said they cant remember anything about the 
application meeting. I can understand this given it was so long ago. Halifax no longer 
has the paperwork from the sale so I cant know how the PPI was presented and I 
cant know what was said in the meeting. Based on what I know about the banks 
sales process at the time, its secured loan application form would have given the 
options to select or to decline PPI side-by-side, and the cost of the PPI would have 
been set out separately. As it was added to their account, I think Mrs S and Mr W 
must have indicated they wanted it for Mr W. On balance, I think its most likely 
Halifax made it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs S and Mr W chose to take it out 
for Mr W.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check it was suitable. And it 
seems to have been right for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time. Mr W was entitled to 52 weeks sick pay, but the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to this and for up to 60 months for all accident and sickness claims. It also 
gave him up to 12 months unemployment cover. This would have allowed him to 
protect any lump sum redundancy payment giving increased financial stability at an 
already difficult time. Theyve said they also had around three months savings, but 
the PPI would have allowed them to use these to cover other living expenses whilst 
Mr W wasnt working, or to keep them intact for their future needs. They also said 
family would have helped but thats not suitable alternative protection. Its not 
guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change. So, overall, I think the PPI 
wouldve been useful for Mrs S and Mr W in addition to their existing means if Mr W 
was sick or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mrs S and Mr W all the information they needed 
before deciding to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear, but it was 
reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and it was apparently affordable. I dont 
know if the bank pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. However Mr W 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions. So I dont think 
better information about the policy wouldve changed their mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mrs S and Mr W have lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint for the reasons set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman