DRN-3588497
The complaint
Mr M complains about a loan provided to him by 1Plus1 Loans Limited, (1Plus1 Loans), 
which he says was unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this service on Mr Ms behalf 
by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being 
taken by Mr M.
What happened
1Plus1 Loans agreed a loan for Mr M on 17 December 2019. The loan was for £3,000. The 
loan was repayable by 36 monthly repayments of £143.84. The interest rate was 24.2%,            
(47.8% APR). If Mr M made each payment when it was due, hed pay £5,178.24 in total.    
Mr M said that the loan was to be used partly for debt consolidation and partly for Christmas.
Mr M said that 1Plus1 Loans failed to conduct thorough, appropriate and reasonable checks 
specific to his application and that it would have seen from its credit checks that he was 
dependent on borrowing.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He said, in summary, 
that considering Mr Ms credit repayment history, he thought it was unlikely that Mr M would 
be able to sustainably repay this loan over three years. And, although he thought that 1Plus1 
Loans had made proportionate checks, he thought that what the lender saw shouldve 
triggered it not to give this loan to Mr M.
1Plus1 Loans disagreed and responded to the investigators view to say, in summary, that:
- It had carried out checks as to Mr Ms income and expenditure, including obtaining a 
review of his bank statements and obtaining a credit check report. It noted that the 
investigator had said that it should have carried out additional checks on top of those 
checks, despite also saying that the checks it carried out were proportionate for the loan 
size. It considered this to be contradictory and asked what additional checks it should 
have carried out
- The majority of the investigators view focused upon Mr Ms previous credit history. It 
said that its underwriter questioned Mr Ms defaulted accounts and found that the 
answers were suitable to enable some of these to be consolidated.
- With reference to the bank statement review the investigator had conducted, it noted the
monthly credit commitments were £625 a month. But Mr M was due to consolidate two     
loans totalling £140 a month. It said it wasnt under any legal obligation or regulatory 
requirement to ensure that the funds provided to Mr M were used for their intended 
purpose. But even if Mr M had not consolidated these loans, the additional £140 a 
month factored into the surplus figure left over would still enable Mr M to sustainably 
repay his loan repayments each month. 
- The loan was made prior to Christmas and this accounted for a larger than usual part of 
Mr Ms non-essential expenditure. Mr M had also confirmed that the majority of his cash 
withdrawals were for non-essential expenditure.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M
and to 1Plus1 Loans on 23 June 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id said that where the evidence was incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it 
was here), Id reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what Id 
considered was most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Id noted that when 1Plus1 Loans lent to Mr M the regulator was the Financial Conduct 
Authority and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). 
1Plus1 Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of Mr Ms creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This 
meant that 1Plus1 Loans had to consider both the risk to it that Mr M wouldnt make the 
repayments under the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr M of not being able to make 
those repayments. 
In particular, 1Plus1 Loans had to consider Mr Ms ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation. 
The rules didnt set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
was down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wished to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what was appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed 
checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Id noted that 1Plus1 Loans had spoken to Mr M several times on the phone and gathered 
some information from him about his income and expenses before it agreed the loan. Id listened to recordings of these calls. Mr M said he lived with his partner and had a 
dependent who didnt live with him. He was a council tenant and paid monthly rent of £160. 
1Plus1 Loans asked Mr M a number of detailed questions about his spending and credit 
commitments. 1Plus1 Loans also carried out a credit check and saw bank statements for 
three of Mr Ms current accounts for a period of around three months. Mr M told it he would 
use the loan for Christmas and to consolidate a high cost loan which had been defaulted 
with a balance of around £884, a payday loan with a balance of around £180 and a revolving 
credit account ( I didnt have details of that balance). 
Mr M was entering into a significant commitment with 1Plus1 Loans. He would need to make 
monthly repayments of around £144 for a period of three years. So, I thought it was right that 
1Plus1 Loans wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about 
Mr Ms financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I thought that the checks Id 
described above allowed 1Plus1 Loans to form a detailed view of Mr Ms finances and I 
thought that the checks 1Plus1 Loans did were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, 
Id looked at the results of 1Plus1 Loans checks to see whether it made a fair lending 
decision. 
1Plus1 Loans affordability form showed that Mr Ms average total monthly income was 
around £1,538. This was from employment income and benefit income. 
Id noted that 1Plus1 Loans had calculated Mr Ms average monthly expenditure on living 
costs and financial commitments to total £1,149.58. So, it said that Mr M would be left with 
an average monthly disposable income of around £389.
1Plus1 Loans had used the results of its credit checks and other information to calculate    
Mr Ms credit commitments to be £485 (as shown on its application details spreadsheet). As 
the items within this amount hadnt been itemised, I wasnt certain how this figure had been 
reached. 
1Plus1 Loans provided this Service with a list of Mr Ms credit commitments from its credit 
checks. The list didnt show either the dates the credit was taken out or the original loan 
amounts. The list showed a relatively large outstanding high cost loan with a balance of 
£4,013 with monthly repayments of £158 to be made over 60 months. This loan appeared to 
have been taken out only around four months before Mr Ms application to 1Plus1 Loans as 
only four payments were shown on the checks. And around two months before the loan 
application, Mr M had taken out a payday loan with a balance of £180. One payment had 
been made for this and Mr M told 1Plus1 Loans he wanted to consolidate this loan. 
Mr M also had two active credit cards. As credit limits werent provided in the credit checks, I 
didnt know if the balances were near their respective credit limits. 
Mr M also had two active communications loans. He had another communications loan with 
a balance of £548 and the checks showed missed payments on this loan three and four 
months prior to the loan application. The account was also under review, but Mr M told 
1Plus1 Loans he didnt know the reason for this. Mr M was also mystified about a credit card 
account showing a balance of £330 and the last six payments showing as missed. 1Plus1 Loans also queried three defaulted accounts on the checks with Mr M. One 
communications account had been defaulted in 2016 and Mr M said he didnt know why this 
had happened. The second account had been defaulted relatively recently in March 2019. 
Mr M said this was his partners account and he told 1Plus1 Loans her credit was worse 
than mine. 1Plus1 Loans queried why the account was in Mr Ms name but he didnt appear 
to know the reason for this. The third default was in October 2019. This was another high 
cost loan taken out around a year earlier with a balance of £884 and monthly repayments of 
around £68. Mr M said he would consolidate this debt with the loan from 1Plus1 Loans. 
Mr M had also told 1Plus1 Loans about a further loan from a high cost lender for which the 
monthly repayments were £80. Hed said hed stopped paying for this loan for at least six 
months as his van needed repairs. It didnt appear that this loan was on the credit checks. 
And it wasnt clear whether the revolving credit account that Mr M told 1Plus1 Loans he 
would consolidate was shown on the credit checks.  
Altogether I thought 1Plus1 Loans credit checks ought to have caused it concerns as Mr Ms 
finances appeared to be under pressure. This was shown on its credit checks by Mr Ms 
relatively recent need for high cost credit as shown by at least two high cost (short and long 
term) loans taken out in the five months before the loan application, two defaults in the nine 
months prior to the loan application, and three other accounts with missed payments. Id 
noted that Mr M appeared mystified by some of the account balances and 1Plus1 Loans 
appeared to have accepted this. But I also thought 1Plus1 Loans might have tried to find out 
more about the mystery balances. It didnt appear from the phone call that 1Plus1 Loans had 
any real concerns about these and the relatively recent defaults and missed payments.
I also thought 1Plus1 Loans was likely to be aware that its credit checks might not have 
revealed the full extent of Mr Ms credit commitments (and the information received from    
Mr M and the bank statements it saw suggested that this was the case). A lender might only 
see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. 
Its checks might not necessarily be up to date. Also, not all lenders reported to the same 
credit reference agencies.
Mr M told 1Plus1 Loans he would be using part of the loan proceeds to consolidate three of 
his debts. From the information he gave to the lender about the debts to be consolidated, it 
was possible that less than half of the loan amount was being used for consolidation. I 
couldnt see from the information received from 1Plus1 Loans that it had made consolidation 
of the debts a condition of the loan. So, 1Plus1 Loans wasnt in control of making sure       
Mr Ms debts would be repaid. And it couldnt have been sure it wasnt putting Mr M in a 
worse position by increasing his overall debt. It appeared that the largest credit amount Mr M 
intended to consolidate was the repayment of his defaulted loan of £884. But it was more 
likely than not that Mr M wouldnt have been paying interest on that defaulted debt. In 
addition, Mr M would still have been left with a relatively large amount of debt to repay even 
if he did repay three of his debts with part of the loan proceeds. And he would need around 
£5,180 to repay 1Plus1 Loans loan over the loan term.  So, 1Plus1 Loans was extending  
Mr Ms indebtedness and prolonging his reliance on high-cost credit.
I also thought the relatively recent high cost borrowing shown on the credit checks might 
have suggested that Mr M was having problems managing his finances that a debt 
consolidation wouldnt have solved. The bank statements 1Plus1 Loans saw also suggested 
that Mr M had recently taken out other short term credit which hadnt appeared on its credit 
checks. I could see on Mr Ms bank statements that he had taken out two short term loans 
totalling £450 in September 2019 and two short term loans totalling £400 in November 2019. 
Id also noted that despite Mr M having received £3,100 into his account at the end of      July 2019, hed needed to borrow short term credit in early September 2019. In addition,    
Mr M was receiving loans from family and friends in each of the three months prior to the 
loan application ranging from £100 to £190 each month. I thought all this suggested he was 
reliant on short term credit and other loans to make ends meet and was most likely trapped 
in a cycle of borrowing to repay these. Mr M told this Service that hed received money from 
his family when he had no money. So, it appeared Mr Ms need for credit appeared to be an 
ongoing one and his finances werent stable. In view of Mr Ms regular need to borrow, I 
didnt think 1Plus1 Loans could safely assume that Mr M wouldnt borrow again after hed 
received its loan and there was a risk that Mr M would be unable to make repayments as 
they fell due over the life of the loan agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
Wed received statements from Mr M for his main current account for the three months prior 
to the loan. Id asked the investigator to ask Mr M for statements for his other two current 
accounts that 1Plus1 Loans said it had seen. But these havent been received. But I couldnt 
see from 1Plus1 Loans analysis of statements for all three bank accounts that the 
transactions on the other two accounts would have made a significant difference to my 
assessment.
Id reviewed the transactions for September 2019 to November 2019 on the bank statements 
wed received. As Id said above, Mr M was borrowing from family and friends and taking out 
short term loans to supplement his employment income and benefits income. Hed told 
1Plus1 Loans he was contributing £320 to a joint account for bills. But I could only see 
contributions totalling £100 in November 2019. And Mr M didnt appear to have enough 
money to pay all his financial commitments (such as his November 2018 high cost loan 
which was defaulted in October 2019, his two other defaulted accounts and two other credit 
accounts). I could also see payments to a debt collector and a buy now pay later account in 
October 2019. It also appeared that there wasnt an overdraft arrangement on the account. 
But I could see that Mr Ms account was overdrawn in September 2019 and early      
December 2019. And on some occasions when the account was on the verge of going 
overdrawn in October 2019 and November 2019, a member of Mr Ms family would deposit 
money into his account. Altogether, it appeared that Mr M was having problems managing 
his money.   
1Plus1 Loans calculated a monthly disposable income of around £389. Id noted that its final 
response letter said:-
Based on the income and expenditure on non-discretionary items noted within your
bank statements and the disposable income, the monthly repayment of £143.84 was
more than affordable to you and just as importantly, sustainable for the lifetime of the
loan. Considering an additional buffer of £100.00 this still left you with an average
figure of £245.05 each month to spend on discretionary items and due to
consolidating your other credit commitments this loan provided more monthly
disposable income for you.
But I was concerned that 1Plus1 Loans seemed to have accepted at face value that Mr M 
had a monthly disposable income of some £389 a month when the pattern of spending on 
his bank statements suggested that he was having difficulty managing his money without 
borrowing elsewhere. 1Plus1 Loans was required to do more than check the pounds and 
pence affordability of the loan. It was obliged under CONC 5.2A.12 (R) to also ensure Mr M 
would be able to repay his loan without borrowing to do so, or it having a significant adverse 
impact on his financial situation. Mr Ms recent credit history suggested a reliance on borrowing (from high cost lenders and 
family/friends) to support his day to day spending and I didnt think this pattern of borrowing  
provided any reasonable reassurance that Mr M was likely to reduce his discretionary 
spending in order to make his loan repayments to 1Plus1. I thought 1Plus1 ought to have 
realised that it appeared that Mr M was living beyond his means and relying on credit to fund 
his day to day spending. 
Id noted that Mr M had taken out a payday loan for £150 within a month after 1Plus1 Loans 
loan. I thought this was foreseeable.
So, on balance and for the reasons set out above, but subject to any further representations 
by Mr M or 1Plus1 Loans, Id said that I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I didnt think 
1Plus1 Loans had made a fair lending decision when it agreed to lend to Mr M based on the 
information it held and I intended to say that 1Plus1 Loans needed to put things right as 
follows:-
.
Putting things right  what 1Plus1 Loans needs to do
I understand that the loan hasnt been repaid. I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to 
repay the capital that he borrowed, because he has had the benefit of that money. But he 
has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him. So, 
1Plus1 Loans should:
  Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr M has 
made as payments towards the capital.
  If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments above 
the original capital borrowed, then 1Plus1 Loans should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen to the date of settlement*.
  If reworking Mr Ms loan account leaves a capital balance outstanding 1Plus1 Loans 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M.
  Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 
Loans should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for 
one.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision to say that he was happy with it.
1Plus1 Loans hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Given that Mr M and 1Plus1 Loans have given me nothing further to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint and require 1Plus1 Loans to take the steps set out above under the 
heading Putting things right - what 1Plus1 Loans needs to do.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order 1Plus1 Loans to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading Putting 
things right  what 1Plus1 Loans needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman