DRN-2101018
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management 
company.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. The policy was added to 
Mr Ts credit card account when he applied for the card by post. The policy covered him for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagreed 
saying, in summary, that:
He would have been entitled to full sick pay for an indefinite period.
His salary rose dramatically from the mid-1990s.
He would have looked for alternative cover if the level of commission had been 
disclosed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint because:
Nationwide has provided a copy of Mr T's postal application form. The form includes equally 
clear options to accept or decline the PPI. Mr T has ticked the box to show that he wanted 
his payments covered. Overall, I think Nationwide did enough to make Mr T aware that the 
PPI was optional and that he chose to take it.
Nationwide didnt advise Mr T to take the policy so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. But it did need to provide enough clear information for Mr T to decide for himself if the 
policy was appropriate for his circumstances. In response to our adjudicator, Mr T says he 
would have sought a policy elsewhere if the commission had been disclosed to him. This 
suggests to me that he did think he had a need for cover. And this is reflected in the 
successful claim he made in 2008. Nevertheless, I have considered his circumstances at the 
time and whether, if hed been given enough information, hed have thought he had a need 
for the policy.
Although he couldnt recall his precise employment at the time he took the PPI, he's told us 
that all of the employers hes worked for have provided full and indefinite sick pay. After 
careful consideration, I think its unlikely that Mr T would have received the level of sick pay 
he recalls. I say this because of what I know from experience and have seen of employee 
benefits across a wide variety of industries and sectors. Without any supporting evidence, I 
dont think I can fairly rely just on Mr Ts recollection to conclude he didnt need PPI. Its 
likely he could have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay from his 
employer if he couldn't work due to sickness or an accident. But the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to these benefits and for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim. So, 
particularly when his employee benefits reduced to half pay, it could have been a useful 
benefit. It also covered Mr T if he'd become unemployed.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr T chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced. So I think it unlikely  despite what he says now  that Mr T would have 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think he 
would still have taken out the policy.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr T, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Nationwide Building society does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman