DRN-2835061
The complaint
Ms M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to transfer both her ISAs to her new provider 
when she requested this in February 2020. It wasnt clear that these had separate reference 
numbers and HSBC should have transferred both ISAs held under the customer reference 
number she quoted.
What happened
An investigator at this service did not believe the complaint should be upheld, saying Ms M 
had only quoted one of her ISA reference numbers on the transfer form and HSBC were 
therefore only entitled to transfer that holding.
While Ms M had also quoted her customer reference number, which covered both ISAs, this 
did not mean HSBC should have transferred both separately-numbered ISAs. He accepted 
that Ms M had received a single statement covering both ISAs but didnt accept that this 
meant she had no reason to assume the ISAs had distinct reference numbers. This was 
because HSBC had sent numerous correspondence making clear that each ISA account 
had a separate reference number.
Ms M did not agree, and said:
There was a discrepancy between the ISA numbers and the one she put forward on 
the form, there being in a missing *1 at the end of the number. Given this, HSBC 
should have queried her request
Her covering letter also requested the transfer of all her ISAs
From a holistic perspective, HSBC did not do enough to make clear the differences 
between her customer number, the ISA references and the product codes
The investigator replied, saying:
The *1 simply referred to the product type and was not required in order to correctly 
identify the ISA account in question
It would have been useful for HSBC to have explained more clearly the relationship 
between the various numbers, but he didnt feel this was sufficient to uphold the 
complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, there is little I 
can add to his assessment (only a brief summary of which I have included above).
HSBC was only entitled to transfer the holdings of the ISA which Ms M quoted on the form. 
Had it transferred both holdings without the reference number of her other ISA, she would 
have had grounds for complaint. If such a complaint had come to this service, we would 
have upheld it.
The covering letter from Ms Ms new provider instructed HSBC to transfer her (ISA)s. This 
is obviously a generic letter and I dont accept that it spells out that all of Ms Ms ISAs should 
be transferred.
Overall, Ive seen no persuasive evidence to conclude that HSBC did anything wrong.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman