DRN-3814361
The complaint
Mr A complains that Allium Money Limited (Allium), has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he 
says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr A is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In July 2020, Mr A was sold a solar panel system (the system) by a company, which Ill call 
P. Mr A decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan 
agreement with Allium. The system was subsequently installed.
In August 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr As behalf under section 75 and section 140 
of the Act to Allium. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr A to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
Mr A could sell electricity back to the grid (via the Smart Export Guarantee - SEG).
Mr A could save significant sums on his electricity bills (by using electricity generated 
by the solar panels rather than buying it from the grid).
The benefits above would cover the loan repayments and leave them in profit.
The CMC also said that Allium had not carried out an appropriate affordability assessment 
and this made its relationship with Mr A unfair on him. 
Allium issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented, that it had done an adequate affordability assessment and there was no 
reason for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Our investigator didnt think that P 
had misrepresented the system to Mr A and that there was no reason to conclude Alliums 
relationship with Mr A was unfair on him.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
Consideration should be taken of how the document looks on face value on a screen 
on a laptop or other portable device.
Mr A is adamant he was led to believe the product would be self-funding and he 
would be making huge savings on his electricity bills. Mr A based his decision to 
purchase on representations made by the sales representative, and the CMC has 
other clients making similar accusations.
The quote is lengthy, confusing, and misleading. Negative entries are in small, 
unhighlighted text whereas positive entries are highlighted in large text and bold. 
There is a vast amount of technical information which is confusing for the average 
consumer.
The entries pertinent to Mr A making an informed decision are in text so small that 
even at 100% of the document size the text is illegible on a portable device and it is 
doubtful the document would have been at full size let alone a size where the small 
print was legible.
The CMC believes the positive figures were provided to Mr A and negative entries 
swiftly scrolled past. The CMC says it is illogical that Mr A would spend vast amounts 
of money he could ill afford with the knowledge the investment would take in excess 
of 10 years to see a return on investment.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75, and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
Section 140 allows the courts to award compensation where it thinks a relationship between 
a creditor and its customer is unfair on the customer. 
As Mr A paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Allium agrees that section 75 
and section 140 apply to this transaction. This means that Mr A could claim against Allium, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. And that he could claim against Allium if his 
relationship with it was unfair. So, Ive taken section 75 and section 140 into account when 
deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr A and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Allium.For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr A says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be self-funding, 
because the SEG payment sand electricity savings would cover the loan repayments and 
leave him with a profit. 
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Allium. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote. Ive considered these, along with Mr As 
testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to 
have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document tailored to Mr A that sets out key information about the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information of the system he was 
sold. Im satisfied that on balance the quote formed a central part of the sales process and 
that the salesperson went through it during the meeting  in line with Ps sales process at the 
time. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr As version of events when 
considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The CMC has made various comments about the quote and how it was presented. But I set 
out below where I think the quote makes certain information clear. That it was shown on a 
portal device like a laptop of tablet wouldve allowed the salesperson to zoom in on any parts 
that Mr A could not see clearly while the salesperson explained what it showed. I am not 
persuaded by the CMCs suggestion that positive entries were highlighted in clear bold text 
and wouldve been shown to Mr A, while negative entries were shown in small unhighlighted 
text and wouldve been scrolled past. The quote does not appear to be in a format that 
wouldve easily allowed that. Certain parts of the quote clearly and directly compare the 
costs and benefits of the system. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. The loan 
agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr A was told that the cost of the system was £8,455.00. The quote sets 
this out clearly, as does the credit agreement. The total amount of credit is £8,355.00. The 
monthly payment was £108.03, with 120 payments to be made in total. And the total amount 
payable including deposit and loan repayments was £13,061.58. 
Im satisfied that the two documents  the quote and the credit agreement  made it clear 
that although the cost of the system was £8,455.00, it would cost Mr A more than this as he 
had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan. Mr A has said that he was told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the SEG payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as Mr As recollections of his meeting with Ps representative to decide 
what is most likely to have been said. 
The quote included a page titled, Export Unused Energy to the National Grid. This clearly 
showed the amount Mr A could expect to receive from doing this in year 1 was estimated to 
be £72.79: 
I think Mr A wouldve been aware of this  it seems unlikely that the salesperson wouldve 
been able to hide this or not tell Mr A this information when the quote makes it so clear. This 
was shown very prominently and in large text on the page, which contained very little other 
information.
The quote set out all of Mr As repayment options. There were four options to choose from, 
with repayments over 12 months, 60 months, 120 months, or 180 months. Mr A chose to 
repay the loan over 120 months. This option was illustrated as follows:
This table clearly shows that the monthly loan repayment was expected to be £108.11, with 
the average monthly return each year being much less than this (a maximum of £29.44 per 
month in the tenth year), with the average monthly shortfall shown for each year. I think this 
table is fairly straightforward and that the salesperson is likely to have explained it to Mr A. 
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve told Mr A that the benefits of the 
system would cover the monthly loan repayments when this table clearly shows they would 
not. 
The following table in the quote showed the estimated income and savings over 30 years. 
The benefits would cover the cash price of the system by the end of year 22, and the total 
amount payable by Mr A of £13,061.58 would be recovered by the end of year 27.
This was clearly illustrated in the FAQ section of the quote as follows:
I think this graph makes clear that the annual loan repayments would exceed the benefits 
throughout the term of the loan. And that Mr A could expect to recoup or get back the full 
cost of the loan in benefits by around year 27. This reinforces what is shown in the previous 
table.
So, I think that the salesperson is likely to have gone through the quote and explained the 
costs and benefits of the system to Mr A. And that it ought to have been clear to Mr A that 
the systems benefits would not cover the cost he was paying until after approximately 27 
years. 
The CMC says, it is illogical that Mr A would spend vast amounts of money he could ill 
afford with the knowledge the investment would take in excess of 10 years to see a return on 
investment. However, Mr A would be receiving a return on his investment  generally the 
ratio of annual income (or benefit in this case) to total amount invested  from the start. I 
think it was clear from the quote that the total amount Mr A paid would not be recovered 
through the benefits until about 27 years after the system was purchased (based on the 
inflation assumptions set out in the quote). 
The quote also explained the assumptions used and that in reality the return may be higher 
or lower depending on actual [inflation] growth. While that was stated in small text, the 
quote illustrated potential savings and income using three simple graphs showing the 
benefits over 30 years would be £4,979 if there was no inflation, £8,485 if inflation was half 
what P had assumed from historic figures, and £15,190 if its assumptions proved to be 
correct. 
I have seen no evidence that persuades me that Mr A was in financial difficulty, could ill 
afford the system, or could not afford the loan at the time of sale. Im satisfied that Allium 
made reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the Mr A would be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way. So, I am not persuaded by the CMCs suggestion that 
an unfair relationship was created between Allium and Mr A due to how Allium considered 
whether Mr A could afford the loan.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these were fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2018 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. This was stated in the quote. I have looked at the actual yearly 
increases between the sale and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by 
P at the point of sale and I think this may explain why Mr A hasnt received the benefits he 
may have been expecting. Whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as 
high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr A entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr A to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman