DRN-3203440
The complaint
Mr P complains that Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) didnt give him 
clear and full information when he set up his Teachers Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(TAVC) plan. He says that if had he wouldve purchased added years within the Teachers 
Pension Scheme (TPS) instead.
What happened
In 1994, Prudential advised Mr P to take out a TAVC, as well as death benefit cover due to 
having inadequate life cover. He was 31 and says he had around four years pensionable 
service as a teacher. He began by contributing 3.83% per annum from his salary to the 
TAVC but says he increased this to 9% several months later, when he could afford it. 
In 2021, Mr P complained to Prudential saying, in summary, that he wasnt made aware past 
added years was an option. He said the application was completed by the adviser, with no 
reference to this, and that they made unrealistic projections for the TAVC.
Mr P also said that as he had gotten married a few years before seeking the advice, and he 
planned to have children, he was concerned about not being able to work due to ill-health. 
So he took out Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance and an Income Protection Policy 
(IPP) and had life cover as part of an endowment plan. He said he then met with Prudential 
to address his pension shortfall, which he recalls well due to sadly losing a family member 
shortly before. He said he made it very clear he wanted to retire at 55 but would have a 
13-year shortfall. And that he was told he could easily make this up with a TAVC. 
Mr P said that in 2013, aged 51, he retired early due to ill health from his TPS. And that he 
contacted Prudential who said he couldnt access his TAVC until he was 55, which wasnt 
unexpected as hed been advised it didnt have ill-health provision. He said he noticed hed 
have a shortfall between aged 60 when his IPP ends and 67 when he could take his state 
pension. And, in 2021, despite his TAVC having grown steadily since he started monitoring 
it, he lost confidence in receiving a reliable pension from it due to a large drop in value. 
Mr P said that if hed been told about added years he might have gone for a TAVC based on 
cost and projected value alone. But not if hed known that with added years he could have 
paid a nominal amount from the lump sum on ill health retirement to make his contributions 
up to 40 years service, as well having valuable death benefits. 
In response, Prudential said, in summary, that:
When joining the TPS Mr P was given literature on options to increase his pension, 
including through past added years. It only had to make a general reference to his 
other options and it was up to him to approach the TPS about these, as it wasnt 
allowed to advise on added years. Mr Ps TAVC application wasnt long and made 
him aware this was an option. Its reasonable to expect him to have read it and 
asked questions if anything wasnt clear, but he chose a TAVC.
Added years was expensive compared to the projected benefits of a TAVC. Mr P was 
31, so there was less time for him to spread the cost of those. And the extra benefits 
and contributions were fixed, whereas there was no cap on what he could achieve 
with a TAVC and it had flexibility. 
In 1994 there was more perceived value in an arrangement that depended on 
investment returns. Expected growth was high and annuity rates were better, so the 
expected return was more beneficial than added years. TAVC illustrations were 
based on assumed interest rates recommended by the regulator and werent 
unrealistic at the time. Mr Ps TAVC was invested in the with profits fund, with a 
broad spread of assets. And the booklet noted the value can go up and down and 
that there wasnt a guaranteed income. Mr P was also using the TAVC to provide life 
cover  which wasnt an option with added years  where the cost was deducted 
from his monthly contributions, reducing the investment value. 
The documentation explained Mr P could take his TAVC benefits before turning 60 if 
he retired due to ill health from the TPS. In 2013, Mr P called to say he was doing 
this, but didnt want to take his TAVC benefits until he was 60. He was told he might 
be entitled to an enhanced annuity from aged 55 and what would happen to the 
benefits if he died before and after taking them. And because of this call it didnt 
send Mr P the documents to take benefits when the TPS confirmed hed retired. 
It said that while it had offered Mr P £50 compensation for not giving him a copy of 
his review document sooner, its cancelled the payment as he said he didnt want it. 
Mr P replied to Prudential adding, in summary, that:
Hes wasnt given the TPS documentation to be aware of added years before 
meeting with it. And that if Prudential was able to rely on this it would defeat the 
point of it having to make its customers generally aware of added years.
The adviser identified a shortfall in life cover, he didnt choose the TAVC for this and 
wouldnt have done so above added years, as his priority was his pension shortfall.
While Prudential told him in 2013 that he might be entitled to an enhanced annuity at 
55, he was told he wasnt when he called back around 2017. So he decided to leave 
his TAVC until he turned 60, as it would have cancelled out what hed receive from 
his IPP. If he was entitled to an enhancement he would have considered it though 
and should still be able to access it, as it might have given him a better return when 
that ends. So he asked Prudential to look into the call and let him know what he 
would have been entitled to.  
Its offer of £50 when hed asked for the documents twice to help make his complaint 
is patronising and shows a lack of empathy.
Prudential told Mr P it had given its response. So Mr P brought his complaint to our service.  
He confirmed he doesnt want to complain about the underperformance of his TAVC. And, in 
relation to added years Mr P said, in summary, that a blank tick box on his application could 
be overlooked. There was no typed statement at the end confirming added years had been 
mentioned or anything to that effect in the handwritten Summary of Your Financial Review 
section. He only had sight of the application to sign it, so his access was limited and he 
couldnt reflect on it. And he said he follows everything up to ensure he is fully covered, so 
he would have done the same with added years and opted for this if hed been told about it.
One of our investigators looked into it and said they werent persuaded Mr P was told about 
added years. And that if he had its likely he would have purchased those, given one of his 
main objectives was to ensure protection for his family, which added years provides in a 
superior way to AVCs.
Prudential didnt agree, adding that the questions on Mr Ps application form showed there 
were other ways to make retirement provision and were such that the adviser would have asked if Mr P was contributing to added years. It said the unticked box means he wasnt. 
And that as Mr P signed the form it shows he was aware of added years. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. 
Since doing so, Mr Ps said that the maximum number of added years he could buy during 
the 24 years until he intended to retire was just under 11. He said that while paying 9% into 
TAVC would achieve the 13-year shortfall, added years would allow him to make up 11 
years and be risk free, take a lump sum and have ill health provision. And that the superior ill 
health benefits would have been the deciding factor. 
I asked Prudential for information from the time Mr P increased his TAVC contributions. In 
response, it said this took place in 2000 and, while it doesnt have Mr Ps application form 
from the time, it provided a specimen of what it says this would have looked like. 
I let Mr P know Im not minded to ask Prudential to do anything. This is because I think its 
likely he was made aware of the past added years option when he joined the TPS and by 
Prudential, both in 1994 and 2000. I also said that, in any case, Im not persuaded Mr P 
would have bought past added years instead, as I think that resolving his pension shortfall 
was an immediate concern in contrast to a possible risk of ill health. The expected returns of 
AVCs was high. Whereas buying past added years would have left Mr P with a five-year 
shortfall, as he would have only been able to buy eight and intended to retire at 55. 
I also said I can see Mr P asked Prudential to investigate the call he had with it in 2017, 
saying that if he was in fact entitled to an enhanced annuity then he would have considered 
taking it, but it didnt respond. I said Mr P should let us know if he wants me to address this, 
as Id need more information from Prudential to do so.
Mr P made a number of submissions in response. And Ive summarised what I consider to 
be his main points as follows: 
In 1995, Prudential asked all teachers joining the TAVC to confirm theyd been made 
aware of PAY in response to claims it hadnt been. Mr P provided examples of TPO 
determinations and decisions given by our service, which he says support that the 
1994 application form, like his, didnt adequately alert applicants to past added years. 
He added that the TPO said this as recently as February 2015. 
As he was just looking to increase his contributions in 2000, he wouldnt have noticed 
every aspect of the amendment form beyond the sections that related to that. Mr P 
said his actual form doesnt exist and it isnt fair to rely on the specimen Prudentials 
provided. Where this doesnt exist weve always said that it cant be considered.
Mr P said the nature of his ill health means he has a duty to be truthful and do the 
right thing. He said that, in particular, he excessively adheres to social conventions. 
And that hes sought to put in place guarantees that if something should happen to 
him then hed be covered. He said this led to him taking out IPP, as well as other 
cover that was unfit for purpose. So ill-health provision wasnt just a concern or 
general goal, but an obsession of his. 
He was aware that if he needed to retire early due to ill health, while his IPP would 
cover him until he was 60, hed be left with a reduced pension because he couldnt 
contribute to his TAVC beyond that. So, ill health provision was a goal for him, which 
is why he asked the adviser about it. The TPS would have offered to make good all 
outstanding payments up to the age of 60, meaning he wouldnt miss out beyond 
when his IPP ended. 
Only being able to purchase eight past added years wouldnt have deterred him. It 
would have been just as affordable as the TAVC, which was based on investment return and not linked to final salary. So, had he gone on to secure promotions and 
significant pay rises, he cant see how it could keep up with the benefits that buying 
past added years could give. This means he was advised based on speculation, as 
the adviser had no idea what Mr Ps final salary or the implications of the 13-year 
shortfall would be for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made a number of representations and, while Ive considered them all, Ive only 
commented on what I think is key to reaching my decision here. And, while I know Mr P will 
be very disappointed, Im not asking Prudential to do anything. Ill explain why.
Mr P hasnt said that he wants me to consider the conversation he had with Prudential in 
2017, where he recalls being told he wasnt entitled to an enhanced annuity. So I havent 
considered this any further. 
I think its likely Mr P would have been given the scheme booklet when he joined the TPS, 
even if he no longer recalls this. This would have explained the options he had to contribute 
to his pension, including past added years. So I think he was given information to make him 
aware of these before he took out the TAVC. In any case, Ive also thought about whether 
I think its likely, on balance, that Prudential made Mr P generally aware added years was an 
alternative in 1994 when his TAVC was set up and when he later increased his contributions. 
I can see Mr Ps application form from 1994 had a section dedicated to asking about any 
other pension contributions and arrangements he had. And within this it asked if he was 
currently making additional contributions under the TPS. One of the options given to do so 
was past added years and, in the event Mr P was contributing to these a tick was required, 
but it was left blank. 
Mr Ps said he wasnt asked this, the adviser filled out the form and he was just asked to sign 
it. Hes also said the box being left blank means it could have been overlooked. But, while I 
appreciate his comments and what hes said about why his recollections from the time are 
heightened, Im also mindful it was 28 years ago. And I dont think this question is likely to 
have been overlooked by the adviser considering its the first in a section thats half a page 
long and the application form is only four pages. I also think the nature of the question, 
asking if Mr P was contributing to the TPS via methods including past added years, shows it 
was an option. I think its likely the adviser would have asked Mr P this when going through 
the sections with him, filling it in, making him generally aware about added years in doing so. 
And that his signature shows its likely he read the form and was made aware of its contents.
Mr Ps referred to decisions from TPO to support that he doesnt think this question was 
enough to make him aware of added years. But hes brought his complaint to our service. 
And the rules under which each scheme operates are different. I determine complaints in 
accordance with Part XVI and Schedule 17 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(as amended) and the DISP section of the FCA Handbook. TPO decides complaints in 
accordance with rules made under the Pensions Schemes Act 1993. So, while we may 
reach similar outcomes, this isnt necessarily the case. 
I also note that the two most recent decisions given by TPO and our service that Mr Ps 
given as examples, refer to the same, or at least a similar, question about past added years 
as his 1994 application form. And both conclude that it cant be said the customer wasnt 
made aware of added years. In any case, I dont think the decisions Mr Ps mentioned, that were given based on their own circumstances, are of great assistance here. No two cases 
are identical and its for me to reach a decision based on the individual merits of Mr Ps 
complaint. And, for the reasons Ive given above, I cant safely conclude he wasnt told 
added years was an option in 1994. 
Turning to Mr Ps application in 2000 to increase his contributions, while Prudential doesnt 
have his completed amendment form from the time, it has provided a specimen of what it 
says this would have looked like. Mr P said it isnt fair to rely on this. But I think its likely the 
form he filled out would have been the same, or very similar, to this. Ive seen others from 
around the time and in my experience they do look like this. So I think its fair and 
reasonable to rely on it here. 
I can see that in a section headed Declaration on the final page of the form it says I have 
been made aware of the booklet entitled A guide to the Teachers Pensions Scheme with 
regard to the Past Added Years option. This is the last bullet point and its right before 
where Mr P would have had to sign the form. And I think he would have had the opportunity 
to read this before signing and increasing his TAVC contributions. So I think its likely Mr P 
was also made aware added years was an option in 2000.
Mr Ps said he wasnt looking at other ways to top up his pension, so he wouldnt have 
noticed every aspect of the form beyond the sections about increasing his contributions. But, 
regardless of whether Mr P paid much mind to this section and why, Prudential only had to 
make him generally aware added years was an option, which I think its likely to have done 
for the above reasons.
In summary, Im not satisfied Mr P wasnt made aware of the past added years option by 
Prudential in 1994 and 2000.
Even if I was persuaded Mr P wasnt made aware of past added years  which Im not  
I cant say he would have bought these instead of taking out his TAVC. Ive taken into 
account what Mr Ps told us about the way his health impacts him  which I cant imagine 
was easy to do  in particular that hes said ill health provision was an obsession of his. And 
the reasons hes given as to why he feels he would have purchased added years instead. 
But I have to consider what I think is likely to have happened at the time, without the benefit 
of hindsight. At the time of the advice Mr P had already made some ill-health provision in 
recent years. And hes said his pension shortfall was his priority and reason for seeking the 
advice. This is because he wanted to retire at 55 but had identified a 13-year pension 
shortfall. So, while I dont doubt what hes said about how he viewed providing for ill-health, 
I maintain that I think its likely his pension shortfall was more of an immediate and certain 
concern for him to resolve at the time.  
TPS had a maximum number of years service a member could build up  often 40 years. 
Any plans the member might have had to retire early werent usually considered. So, if a 
member joined the scheme full-time at aged 28 instead of 20 but intended to retire before 
the normal retirement age, as in Mr Ps case, they would still only be able to buy eight past 
added years. Mr P seems to accept this means that, with his intended retirement age of 55, 
the maximum number of years service he could have achieved with past added years was 
35 rather than 40, leaving him with a five-year pension shortfall still in that case. 
Ive taken into account that Mr Ps said that, overall, he would still have opted for past added 
years though as there was no investment risk, it would have provided a lump sum and been 
just as affordable as the TAVC. But, given resolving his shortfall was his main priority at the 
time, I think the prospect of being left with a five-year shortfall still in that case  just under 
40% of the 13-year shortfall he was looking to resolve  would have felt very significant. And, when also considering the expected returns of AVCs was very high at the time and Mr Ps 
said he was advised he could easily resolve the full shortfall with a TAVC, I cant safely say 
that I think he would have purchased added years instead.  
I appreciate Mr P says the adviser acted on speculation, as he cant see how the TAVC 
could keep up with the benefits buying past added years could give when accounting for 
promotions and pay rises. But the adviser wasnt expected to make such a comparison. As 
mentioned, the adviser was acting on the understanding that the projected returns for AVCs 
was very high at the time. Mr P would have been given an illustration for his TAVC. And the 
projected benefits from it might not have been easy for Mr P to compare with buying past 
added years if hed gotten a quote for that from the TPS himself, if it wasnt produced to the 
same age with the same level of contributions. 
In summary, Im not asking Prudential to do anything. I note it offered Mr P £50 
compensation for failing to initially send him his review document. Mr P should contact 
Prudential directly if he now wishes to accept this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision I dont think Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited needs to do anything to settle Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman