DRN-3854799
The complaint
Ms R complains she was mis-sold an investment she made in two bonds issued by Basset &
Gold Plc (B&G plc). She says she was led to believe that her investments were protected
by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), but now knows that was not the
case. She would like to be compensated for the loss of capital suffered by the investment
due to her being misled.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bonds
Ms R invested in a B&G Plc 3 Year Fixed Monthly Income Bond and a B&G Plc 5 Year Fixed
Monthly Income IFISA Bond. For a period of time, sales of these bonds were dealt with by
Basset Gold Ltd (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bonds. BG
Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bonds. And it was responsible for
advertising and marketing the bonds. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to
discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Basset Gold Finance Ltd (BGF)  an independently authorised business, which was not
connected to Gallium  took over from BG Ltd at some point in 2018. Gallium says this
happened before the appointed representative agreement between it and BG Ltd came to an
end and has made submissions on this point  albeit inconsistent ones. For the remainder of
this background section I have referred to BG Ltd as the business Ms R interacted with, but
the point of dispute is noted and I will consider in my findings whether Ms R actually dealt
with BGF instead.
Ms R and the investment in the bond
Ms R invested a total of £13,500 in the bonds.
BG Ltds log of applications records the following:
Investor Tags Legal Tags
Type Date Type Date
High Net Worth 
Investor2016-12-17 
09:10:30Completed Investor 
Questionnaire2016-12-17
09:12:12
KYC Completed 2017-01-15
19:29:37
B&G T&C Confirmed 2017-06-18
07:46:57
The certificates for the bond Ms R actually invested in records the application dates as 18
June 2017 for the 5 year bond and 19 January 2018 for the 3 year bond.
Ms R has limited recollection of the application process but told us:
I found out about Basset and Gold through the internet. I completed the application
online. Subsequently, I had a few telephone conversations withBasset and
GoldInitially, I invested with Basset and Gold because of the high interest rate they
were offering, which is the reason most people invested, seeing as Bank/Building
Society interest is so negligible.
Ms R says she was retired at the time of investing in the two bonds and had previously
invested in similar investments. She says she told BG Ltd at the time of investing that these
previous investments had failed and was told not too worry as there was no danger of these
new investments going the same way.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Ms R
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
From the available evidence, it is not completely clear how Ms Rs application was made
but she says it was made online.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of BG Ltds online application process. These show
the online application journey that potential investors underwent. This consisted of two
stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on
how to test whether the investments were appropriate for the potential investor. The first was
certification. The second was the appropriateness test.
Galliums response to Ms Rs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Ms Rs complaint. It said Ms R had been given sufficient information
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Ms Rs
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also
considered what Gallium describes as its position statement, which sets out general
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Ms Rs complaint and concluded it should be upheld.
They said, in summary:
They had thought about whether Ms R would have qualified as any of the categories 
of investor type eligible to receive promotions of the bond. Given her assets, Ms R 
may have qualified as a High Net Worth investor.
So Ms R may have met the requirements of one of the categories set out the relevant 
rules.
The assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds for Ms R was misleading and 
didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.Had BG Ltds process met what was required under the rules and sufficiently asked 
Ms R about her knowledge and experience then BG Ltd ought to have reasonably 
concluded that Ms R did not have the necessary knowledge and experience to make 
the bond an appropriate investment for her.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Ms R wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Ms R to invest. For these reasons it was fair to 
uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Ms R for the loss she has 
suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
It noted we accept Ms R satisfied the criteria to be classified as a High Net Worth 
investor.
The appropriateness test answers and the confirmations Ms R gave were sufficient 
for Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
The investigator didnt properly consider that Ms R had previously invested in similar 
investments to the B&G Plc bonds.
Ms R hadnt detailed why she thought the bond had been mis-sold  though it 
appreciated our inquisitorial remit, it felt we had gone significantly beyond the scope 
of the complaint made.
The acts the complaint is about took place after B&G Finance Ltd  an independent 
business with which Gallium had no relationship - became authorised. Once B&G 
Finance Ltd became authorised it took over from BG Ltd and so B&G Finance Ltd is 
responsible during this interim period, not Gallium.
The investigator provided evidence to Gallium that supported that BG Ltd were involved in
the arranging of investments during the interim period. They sent copies of correspondence
from other cases we have reviewed that showed emails and paperwork in use at the time
consistently set out prior to 1 March 2018 that they belonged to BG Ltd as an appointed
representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited. The investigator remained of the view the
evidence shows BG Ltd promoted and arranged the B&G bonds Ms R took out on in
June 2017 and January 2018, and Gallium was responsible for the actions of BG Ltd here.
Gallium didnt respond directly to the investigator, but it has also provided this service with a
witness statement from its former director, dated 16 February 2023 on the subject of who
was responsible for arranging the bonds in the interim period, which says:
He understands that the only regulated activities that continued to be carried out by 
BG Ltd in the interim period, were that BG Ltd remained responsible for the making 
of telephone calls with investors or prospective investors concerning their bond 
investments.
It is his understanding that in relation to telephone calls between Basset & Gold 
representatives and investors/prospective investors in the bonds, during the interim 
period all regulated activities relating to the financial promotions concerning the B&G 
Plc bonds, as well as activities concerning the arranging of bond investments, were 
conducted by BGF.
BG Ltd continued to be responsible for the content of telephone calls between Basset 
& Gold.On 4 January 2018, he received an email from the owner of Basset & Gold, which 
confirmed that Basset & Gold (he says this meant BGF) had been authorised by the 
FCA. The owner requested a meeting to discuss the best way to transition the 
regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm.
He believes the meeting took place on 11 January 2018. No notes are available, but 
he recalls what was discussed.
This service asked  on another complaint  for various points of clarification on what is
said in the witness statement, and for contemporaneous evidence to support it. 
At the time of issuing my provisional decision we had not received a response to that 
request. However, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision  which I quote below 
 I was satisfied I could proceed with this particular complaint without that further 
information.
My provisional findings
I recently issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were as follows:
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution forum. A complaint
made to us need not be, and rarely is, made out with the clarity of formal legal pleadings. As
recognised by the High Court in R (Williams) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWHC
2142, our service deals with complaints, not causes of action. Our jurisdiction is inquisitorial,
not adversarial.
In the circumstances  keeping in mind what I say above about our jurisdiction being
inquisitorial - I think it is appropriate to consider all the acts or omissions which relate to the
sale of the bond. Although I only need to make findings on these to the extent it is necessary
to reach a decision on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Given what Gallium says about the interim period  that it is not responsible for the act(s)
this complaint relates to - I have first considered all the available evidence and arguments to
decide whether we can consider Ms Rs complaint.
It is not clear how exactly Ms Rs applications came about  whether they were done online,
over the phone or through the post  or on what basis they proceeded. Ill consider this
further later in this decision. But, for now, it is sufficient to say Ms Rs complaint is about the
arrangement of her investment in the bonds.
Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities,
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which
the firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent
for which the firmhas accepted responsibility).
This guidance is drawn from the relevant legislation, which is paragraph 3 of s39 to the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMSA):
the principal [here, Gallium] of an appointed representative is responsible, to thesame extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the
representative in carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
So I need to consider whether Ms Rs complaint is about a regulated activity, carried on by
an appointed representative of Gallium, for which Gallium accepted responsibility.
Is Ms Rs complaint about a regulated activity?
I am satisfied Ms Rs complaint relates to a regulated activity. The bond was a security or
contractually based investment specified in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Ms R made her investment, the RAO
said regulated activities include arranging deals in investments. Acts such as obtaining and
assisting in the completion of an application form and sending it off, with the clients
payment, to the investment issuer would come within the scope of Article 25(1), when the
arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the transaction. So I am satisfied the
application process  whether it took place online or over the phone  falls within the scope
of Article 25(1). It involved making arrangements for Ms R to invest in the bond, and had the
direct effect of bringing about the transaction.
Was Gallium responsible for the acts the complaint is about?
Under the appointed representative agreement in place between BG Ltd and Gallium, in
relation to bonds, BG Ltd was allowed to carry out promoting activitieswhere the Company
has approved the financial promotion. And Gallium allowed BG Ltd the right under its
authorisation with the FCA to give advice in connection with advising, arranging, or dealing
in investment products for present and prospective clients and in connection therewith to
display, advertise, promote, . for the sole purpose of promoting the sale of the same.
This agreement was in force during the period up to the date of investments  18 June 2017
and 19 January 2018. So, if BG Ltd carried out the arrangements, that is business for which
Gallium accepted responsibility and the complaint can therefore be considered against it.
I note Gallium, says from 2 January 2018 BGF began to promote the bonds to investors and
that the website and telephone line was the responsibility of BGF from that date. However 
save for the witness statement, which is unclear on several points and in any event
inconsistent with the position set out in response to the view  it has provided no evidence to
support this point.
I will turn to the witness statement shortly. The evidence available otherwise all shows it was
BG Ltd  not BGF  which made the arrangements in this case.
Ms R has recently provided a copy of a letter dated 14 July 2017 from BG Ltd. This
acknowledges Ms Rs subscription and attaches her bond certificate. She has also provided
a similar letter dated 15 February 2018 for the bond taken out in January 2018. I appreciate
Gallium has not seen these and so I intend to share them with my provisional findings. I think
these letters demonstrate that BG Ltd was responsible, not BGF and therefore Gallium is
responsible for arranging the investment in the bond.
Ive also reviewed the sample correspondence the investigator provided to Gallium to show
examples of when BG Ltd were involved in arranging investments in bonds during the
interim period. This includes copies of emails and paperwork in use around the same time as 
Ms R took out her investments which consistently set out BG Ltd, acting as an appointed
representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited, as the business involved in arranging the
investments. This evidence along with the specific evidence mentioned above from the saleof Ms Rs bonds supports that Gallium are responsible for the actions of BG Ltd when
arranging Ms Rs bonds.
The merits of Ms Rs complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are
relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant
here.
The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who they
could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I
have considered the relevant rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached similar overall
conclusions to the investigator, for similar reasons. In summary:
Based on the available evidence, I think Ms R was categorised as a High Net Worth 
investor, not a restricted (or everyday, as BG Ltd described it) investor.
The wording used by BG Ltd for the High Net Worth Investor category mirrors the 
wording set out at 4.12.6R and, based on the available evidence, it seems Ms R may 
have had sufficient assets to meet the definition of a High Net Worth investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not 
however meet the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been 
apparent the bonds were not appropriate investments for Ms R, as she did not have 
the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in 
investing in the bonds. 
Whilst I appreciate she did have some experience in investing in other similar 
investments, I do not think that is sufficient evidence to show Ms R had necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in investing in these 
bonds.
Im not satisfied Ms R had the requisite knowledge of these investments to proceed. 
In my view this is supported by Ms R's reliance on BG Ltds reassurances around 
these investments when she raised concerns regarding her previous investments 
failing. I do not think an investor with the necessary knowledge and experience would 
have so readily relied on such assurances.So my decision is that Ms Rs complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied Ms R would
either not have proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed,
had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations in relation to the
appropriateness test. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Ms R for
her loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
In response to my provisional decision Gallium provided a general submission which
contained some further evidence relating to what it describes as the interim period. This
included:
A copy of the 4 January 2018 email from the owner of Basset & Gold referred to in 
the witness statement.
Copies of Galliums Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report for 
Basset Gold, for each month from February 2017 to February 2018.
Copies of the documents applying to terminate BG Ltd as Galliums appointed 
representative, submitted by Gallium to the FCA on 1 March 2018, and some 
associated emails.
Some email correspondence between Gallium and BG Ltds compliance officer about 
B&G Plc becoming an appointed representative of BGF, and the transfer of approved 
persons.
A list of calls made by B&G Ltd which Gallium had monitored, month on month.
Ms R didnt have any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have first reconsidered the interim period point. I have reconsidered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whether we can consider Ms Rs complaint  i.e. whether 
Gallium is responsible for the act(s) this complaint relates to. I have not been persuaded to 
change my view on this point.
I have carefully considered the additional evidence Gallium has submitted but, in my view, 
this only further supports the conclusion that Gallium was responsible for making 
arrangements for Ms R to invest in the bonds and the complaint is therefore one we can 
consider against it.
The 4 January 2018 email from the owner of Basset & Gold referred to in the witness
statement includes the following:
As you know we have applied for authorisation with a new company a few months 
ago and I am happy to inform you that we have now been authorised.
As discussed we will transition the regulatory business away from Gallium to the new 
firm, but wanted to discuss with you the best way to get this done. I will be in London 
next week on Thursday if you would like to meet.
As far as ISA manager goes, this will stay as is, as agreed.Please let me know if you have any matters you think we should take into 
consideration and as always any advice and guidance will be greatly appreciated.
In the Janaury 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report the following
questions are asked of Basset Gold:
Does the Appointed Representative stationery (including website) properly identify 
the firm as an Appointed Representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited? And 
have you provided copies to Gallium?
Have you attached a list of all investors you have promoted to this month?
Have all investors been categorised as appropriate to receive the financial 
promotions prior to promotion and such categories kept on file?
Each of these questions was answered Yes.
Attached to the January 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is a
report all the investment business undertaken that month  which includes Ms Rs 
investments on 18 June 2016 and 19 January 2018.
Although the report refers to Basset Gold and not specifically to either of the appointed
representative businesses it clearly relates  at least insofar as what I refer to above - to the
activities of BG Ltd, as it was BG Ltd  not B&G Plc  which operated the website, made
promotions and arranged investments.
A copy of the January 2018 report we have also been given features a post-it note stuck to 
the report of all the investment business, which says:
Pls note the total of money raised for B&G for Series 6 & 7/ They may need to 
consider new loan documents soon. Although probably will not be our issue as 
terminating end of Feb, but worth mentioning to them
I also note the Call Monitoring List provided by Gallium shows it monitored 11 calls in
January 2018  more than it had monitored in any previous month during its relationship with 
BG Ltd.
This information, in addition to the copies of letters from BG Ltd which Ms R has previously 
provided, in my view evidences BG Ltd was arranging investments in B&G Plc bonds 
including the investments Ms H made  at the time of Ms Rs investment, and was doing so 
as an appointed representative of Gallium. I say this because:
The 4 January 2018 email only refers to an intention to transition away from Gallium 
to BGF, and makes a request to discuss how this might be done. It is not evidence of 
a transition to BGF having already taken place, and of BGF hence being responsible 
from that time.
The Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is evidence BG Ltd was 
still being described as an appointed representative of Gallium at this time, in 
stationery and on the website. It is also evidence Gallium was monitoring and 
recording promotions and arrangements being made by BG Ltd at that time. This is 
strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the arrangement of investments 
at the time.
The post-it note on the investment list is clear evidence Gallium understood it was 
responsible for the arrangement of investments until 1 March 2018.The fact Gallium was monitoring calls from BG Ltd to investors (or potential 
investors) is further strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the 
arrangement of investments at the time  there is no other reason why such 
monitoring would be taking place.
It also remains the case, as I set out in my provisional decision, that I have not seen any
evidence specific to this investment which makes any reference to BGF.
As I set out in my provisional decision, in making the arrangements. BG Ltd was carrying out
business for which Gallium had accepted responsibility. So I remain of the view I set out in
my provisional decision, quoted above (which, to be clear forms part of this final decision) for
the reasons given there, and the further reasons set out above.
Turning to the merits of Ms Rs complaint again, Ive considered all the available evidence
and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not been persuaded to change the view set out in my provisional decision. To
confirm, my final decision is the same as that set out in my provisional decision, for the
same reasons. For those reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that
Ms Rs complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied Ms R would either not have
proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium
acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is
fair to ask Gallium to compensate Ms R for her loss.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms R 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bonds.
I take the view that Ms R would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair
and reasonable given Ms R's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Ms R fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Ms R's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pay Ms R £250 for the distress caused. This recognises the worry that she felt when 
B&G failed.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Provide the details of the calculation to Ms R in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
dateTo (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 5
Year Fixed
Monthly
Income BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
the final 
decision to settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance)
B&G Plc 3
Year Fixed
Monthly
Income
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
the final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Ms R agrees to Gallium taking
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership,
then it may request an undertaking from Ms R that she repays to Gallium any amount she 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any
return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments,
to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If any
distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they
must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms R wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Ms R's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Ms R would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman