DRN-1510301
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Cumberland Building Society (Cumberland) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1997. They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy, which covered Mr J for accident, sickness and unemployment. In the event of a 
claim the policy would have paid out £50 a month for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was been passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Js case. 
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs J say that they werent told by Cumberland that the PPI policy was optional and 
that they were told they needed the cover to get their mortgage. Ive seen a copy of Mr and 
Mrs Js signed mortgage application form. It seems this form was completed during a 
meeting with a Cumberland adviser in one of its branches. The form includes the question 
Do you require protection for your mortgage repayments? There are YES and NO options 
for both mortgage applicants. And I can see that the YES box has been ticked for Mr J and 
the NO box for Mrs J and that Mr J signed separately under this section.
So, from the evidence available to me, I think Mr and Mrs J knew at the time that the PPI 
was optional and decided to buy it. I dont think it was presented to them as something they 
had to take. But I can understand why they might remember things differently given the sale 
took place a long time ago.
I think Cumberland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs J. This means that Cumberland 
needed to check that the PPI was suitable for them. As I dont know what was said to them 
by the adviser, I dont know how Cumberland did this. But, from what I know about Mr and 
Mrs Js circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was suitable for them. I say this because:
Mr J appears to have been eligible for the PPI, despite Mr and Mrs J suggesting 
otherwise. I note they say another lenders compensated them for PPI mis-sold on 
these grounds but that doesnt alter my view that he qualified for this policy. And I 
cant see that he was significantly affected by any of its main exclusions and 
limitations.Mr and Mrs J say they didnt need the PPI cover for Mr J because he was entitled to 
enhanced sick pay from his employer and they also had savings they could have 
used if needed. But they opted to take out the PPI, so it seems they valued the extra 
cover it gave them. And I can see why since it protected their mortgage repayments, 
and so potentially their home, if Mr J couldnt work. The PPI would have paid out for 
up to 12 months per claim in addition to any other funds available to them at the time. 
This means that Mr and Mrs J could have used their other means to cover other day-
to-day expenses. 
I believe the monthly premium of less than £3 was affordable for Mr and Mrs J. And 
the PPI was flexible in that they could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra 
cost, if they decided they no longer wanted it.
 
Cumberland also needed to give Mr and Mrs J enough information to allow them to decide if 
they wanted to buy it. I think its possible that Cumberland could have provided better 
information than it did. But, for much the same reasons that I think the PPI was suitable for 
them, I dont think better information would have changed their minds about buying it. I still 
think theyd have seen it as providing useful and affordable protection.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr and Mrs J lost out because of how 
Cumberland sold them the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman