DRN-3304798
The complaint
Mr P complained to Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) when they reported payment 
arrears on his loan to the credit reference agencies, despite having applied for a payment 
deferral.
What happened
Mr Ps loan with Tesco was originally agreed in 2018 and was subject to monthly 
repayments over an original term of 36 months. 
Tesco wrote to Mr P in May 2020. They told him there were outstanding arrears on his loan 
of £726.58. They also provided details of how to bring payments up to date together with 
information about independent debt support and guidance available, should Mr P require it.
In early June 2020, Mr P contacted Tesco. He said that his income had reduced due to the 
impact of the global pandemic. He also told them hed applied for a payment deferral. Tesco 
said they didnt have any record of his application. Tesco asked Mr P to provide copies of 
any evidence of his payment deferral application. But Mr P was unable to find any emails or 
documents supporting his application. Mr P arranged to repay any arrears outstanding 
promptly.
Mr P wanted Tesco to remove any arrears reported to the credit reference agencies as he 
thought theyd made a mistake. He said they shouldve contacted him immediately when a 
payment was missed. Mr P said that having explained his situation, Tesco should 
retrospectively apply the payment deferral and remove the arrears from his credit file. He 
thought Tesco should do this as a gesture of goodwill. So, he complained to them.
Tesco didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They said theyre required to provide 
accurate information to the credit reference agencies. Tesco said that because they hadnt 
received a deferral application from him, they couldnt remove the arrears from Mr Ps credit 
file. 
Mr P wasnt happy with Tescos response to his complaint. So, he referred matters to this 
service and asked us to investigate. Our investigator considered the circumstances of Mr Ps 
complaint. He thought Tesco hadnt acted fairly here. He said that despite no evidence being 
available to support Mr Ps claim that a deferral application had been made, it was 
reasonable Mr P most likely had applied. Our investigator thought Tesco should 
retrospectively apply the payment deferral and remove any adverse information reported to 
the credit reference agencies. 
Tesco didnt agree with our investigators findings. They said theyd reported accurately in 
line with their regulatory obligations. They also confirmed there was no record of Mr P having 
applied for a payment deferral. They wanted Mr Ps complaint referred to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.  
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, my decision here 
will be a provisional one  giving both Mr P and Tesco the opportunity to respond to my 
findings below, before I reach a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 
which explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional 
circumstances arising out of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking 
businesses to consider payment deferrals of up to three months under regulated 
credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the 
pandemic. The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative 
impact on the consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
In Tescos case, their website provided information about how their customers could 
apply for a payment deferral, in the event that they were financially impacted by the 
pandemic. Tesco explained that customers were able to download an application 
form in pdf format for completion and return to them. They recommended that any 
completed application be returned using email. This appears to meet Tescos 
obligations under the FCAs guidance.
Tesco said theyve no record of an application being received from Mr P. Ive seen 
copies of their file notes and can find no evidence to contradict Tescos claim here. 
Tesco and this service also asked Mr P to provide copies of any evidence to show 
that hed made an application to Tesco. Unfortunately, Mr P has been unable to 
provide any such evidence.
Mr P said hed applied to all his creditors seeking support as a result of the global 
pandemic, including Tesco. At my request, he has provided this service with copies 
of correspondence from three other businesses dating from 2020. Two of these 
confirm that payment holiday applications were made. 
Mr P told Tesco that to the best of his knowledge, hed sent a payment deferral 
application to them. When referring his complaint to this service, Mr P said, that at 
worse this is a genuine oversight. I do sympathise with Mr Ps situation. Its clear 
that he felt the pandemic had negatively impacted upon his earnings and, as a result, 
his ability to maintain repayments to his creditors. Im persuaded that Mr P had 
intended to request support from all of his creditors. But this doesnt necessarily 
mean that an application was ultimately made to or received by Tesco.
My role is to decide whether, on the balance of evidence and probability, Tesco have 
done something wrong or acted unfairly here. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr P 
received any written agreement or acknowledgment from Tesco in relation to a 
payment deferral. So, on that basis, I think Mr P had an obligation to continue 
meeting his repayments when they became due. I dont think Mr P could safely 
conclude that any deferral request had been agreed without first having received 
confirmation. On the basis he didnt receive confirmation, I wouldve expected Mr P to 
contact Tesco to follow up any request he believed hed made. But Mr P didnt do 
that here.
Mr P went on to ask Tesco if theyd remove the adverse information reported as a 
gesture of goodwill. Tesco explained their regulatory obligations to report what 
actually happened. Those obligations are set by the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO). Tesco said they couldnt remove the information. It doesnt fall within 
the role of this service to decide upon and instruct a business to make a goodwill 
gesture. That is a business decision for Tesco only.I think Mr Ps situation is very unfortunate. I understand his previous track record of 
repayments gave no cause for concern. But Im unable to agree with our investigator 
here. Nothing Ive seen leads me to conclude that Tesco have done anything wrong 
or treated Mr P unfairly here. So, I dont intend to ask Tesco to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. 
Tesco responded and confirmed they had nothing further to add.
Mr P responded with the following points:
He insists he had advised Tesco that he was experiencing difficulties due to the 
global pandemic before the arears occurred. 
In any event, Mr P said that he contacted Tesco immediately he was advised of the 
arrears in writing. So, he thinks Tesco should have applied the FCAs guidelines and 
ensured that no adverse information was reported on his credit file.
Tesco took two months to advise him that he was in arrears with his loan repayments 
and Mr P questions why they didnt contact him sooner.
He had never missed any previous payments.
Ive considered Mr Ps additional comments. I dont think theres any question that Mr P 
advised Tesco of the impact the global pandemic was having upon his financial situation. 
The question is about when this happened. Mr P insists he submitted a payment deferral 
request. But, in my provisional decision, I did say that neither Mr P nor Tesco were able to 
provide anything to support that. 
Tesco werent able to retrospectively apply a payment deferral as the FCAs suggests their 
guidance shouldnt apply for pre-existing issues. Whether a payment deferral application 
was submitted, or not, Mr P didnt receive anything from Tesco to confirm a payment deferral 
had been agreed, and Tesco said they hadnt confirmed any agreement to him. So, I dont 
think Mr P could assume a deferral was in place.
I dont agree that Tesco needed to advise Mr P as soon as a repayment wasnt received. 
The consequences of a missed or late payment are clearly detailed within the loan 
agreement. I also think that unless Mr P had received a clearly communicated deferral 
agreement from Tesco, he has an obligation, under the loan agreement, to ensure 
repayments are made and received by Tesco on time. While it may be common practice for 
a lender to contact a customer where a payment is not received, they arent immediately 
obliged to do so.
I want to stress that I do appreciate the impact this experience has had on Mr P. 
Unfortunately, Ive not been persuaded that Tesco did anything wrong here. So, I wont be 
changing my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman