DRN-1934479
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Cigna Insurance Services (Europe) Limiteds decision to stop 
offering his personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
In 1992, Mr D took out a personal accident insurance policy. The policy at the time was 
underwritten by another insurer but eventually was taken over by Cigna. The policy would 
pay a lump sum benefit if Mr D were to die or suffer permanent disablement as a result of an 
accident. The policy, which renewed in March each year, was subject to a provision under 
which the benefit levels and premium rose by 5% of the original amounts at each renewal.
In September 2019, Cigna wrote to Mr D explaining it had taken the decision to withdraw 
from the personal accident insurance market. It said this meant it would not be able to renew 
his policy when the current period of cover ended in March 2020. It offered suggestions on 
how he might find cover from another provider.
Mr D complained to Cigna about its decision. He said that he was unable to find an 
alternative policy providing similar cover for a similar price. Hed understood that the policy 
would remain in place for as long as he continued paying premiums. He therefore asked that 
Cigna continue to provide cover to him after March 2020.
Cigna wouldnt change its position. It said that the decision to stop offering cover was a 
commercial decision which affected all policyholders, not just Mr D.
Mr D was unhappy at Cignas response. He referred his complaint to us. He said the policy 
terms implied that cover was guaranteed to continue until he reached the age of 75. He 
considered it was unfair that Cigna could just withdraw the policy in this way and said its 
actions had caused him and his wife a great deal of stress.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Cigna had acted fairly and in accordance with the policy terms.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators findings. He maintained that the policy terms implied 
that the policy was guaranteed to continue until he reached the age of 75. Although the 
policy was annually renewable, he considered the policy wording implied the offer of renewal 
was guaranteed and he pointed out that the policy reference number had stayed the same 
since the policy was first taken out. He considered it was unfair that Cigna had withdrawn the 
policy and left him unable to obtain comparable cover for a similar price. He considered that 
if Cigna was unprepared to continue offering him the cover, it should pay the extra amount 
he would need to pay to take out comparable cover elsewhere and/or compensate him for 
the stress and anxiety which hed been caused.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy is renewable each year. As with any other annually renewable policy, Cigna is 
obliged to provide cover as described for the twelve month period of the policy. There is no 
promise that renewal will always be offered and I dont read any significance into the fact 
that the policy reference number hasnt changed since it was first taken out.
The policy contains a clause headed Cancellation Guarantee which states:
1. You may cancel this Policy at any time by giving us seven days notice in writing.
2. This Policy will be cancelled when you have attained the age of 75 years.
3. We also may cancel this Policy, or require you to pay increased Premiums or alter the 
terms of this Policy but only if
a) we give you thirty days notice in writing at your last known address and
b) we take exactly the same action on every other Northern Rock Accidental Death & 
Disability Plan Policy we issued at the same time as this one
Cigna made the commercial decision to withdraw from the personal accident insurance
market. I am satisfied that it was entitled to do this. It was a decision which affected all its
policyholders. It gave notice to Mr D of this decision six months before his cover was due to 
come to an end. This was in accordance with policy clause 3a) above. Im satisfied this was 
fair and gave him time to seek alternative cover. It also offered advice on how to find an 
alternative provider. I consider this was reasonable.
The policy states, as noted above, that the policy will be cancelled when the policyholder 
reaches the age of 75. Mr D inferred from this that the policy was guaranteed to be offered 
for renewal until he reached that age. I understand why Mr D might have inferred this but I 
do not consider that the policy carries this promise.
Mr D has drawn comparison with life assurance and said he is unaware of an insurer 
withdrawing such a policy mid-term. However, life assurance is typically a long-term 
insurance contract with a specified end date whereas this policy, as explained above, is 
simply an annual contract.
Mr D has also drawn an analogy with a pub landlord asking a particular customer to leave 
the bar for no good reason. However, this is not analogous to what Cigna has done. It would 
be more appropriate to compare its action to a pub company which has decided to close an 
unprofitable venue. This might be inconvenient for those who frequented the venue but, 
again, it can hardly be called unfair.
It is unfortunate for Mr D that Cigna has taken the decision to withdraw from the
personal accident insurance market, particularly as he is unable to find comparable cover for 
a similar price. However, while I sympathise with Mr D, I cant reasonably conclude that 
Cigna has done anything wrong. I therefore see no grounds for saying that it should pay him 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman