DRN-1783057
The complaint
Mr F says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (PDL), irresponsibly lent to him. Mr F 
says he was having major financial problems and after making the loan repayments he had 
to borrow further to cover living expenses.
What happened
This complaint is about six short-term loans PDL provided to Mr F between October 2015 
and July 2017. There were two chains in lending. Mr Fs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 06/10/2015 27/11/2015 2 £150.00 £126.60
2 27/11/2015 24/03/2016 4 £300.00 £138.00
3 24/03/2016 16/08/2016 6 £500.00 £211.33
4 04/09/2016 08/12/2017 12 £1,200.00 £248.50
Break in lending
5 02/06/2018 25/07/2018 3 £400.00 £216.53
6 31/07/2018 28/08/2019 12 £1,300.00 £248.50
The first of our adjudicators to consider the complaint thought that loans four to six should be 
upheld as it looked as though the lending was unsustainable for Mr F and he was becoming 
persistently reliant on this type of lending. 
In response, PDL agreed with the adjudicator in part and offered to uphold loan four. We put 
the offer to Mr F, but he rejected it. 
While the complaint was waiting for an ombudsmans decision another of our adjudicators 
reconsidered the complaint. They agreed that loans one to three shouldnt be upheld (loan 
four had already been agreed) but didnt think loan five should be upheld as there was a 
reasonable break in the lending between loan four being repaid and loan five being taken. 
But he did think loan six should be upheld because of other borrowing commitments and the 
lending was unaffordable.
Further to the reassessment PDL responded saying loan four was affordable and there were 
no signs of financial difficulty for loan six. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr F didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three and loan five 
shouldnt be upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about 
these loans. So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of 
the borrowing relationship Mr F had with PDL. So, it is something I will take into account 
when considering the other loans he took. 
This only leaves me loans four and six to decide. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. 
Loan four
Initially PDL made an offer on loan four but then said it was affordable for Mr F. But I think 
Mr Fs borrowing behaviour should have caused PDL to reconsider whether it should have continued to lend to Mr F. This is because at loan four a pattern had developed where Mr F 
would repay his previous loan and return for further borrowing the same day (or two weeks 
later in the case of loan three). And the amounts were consistently increasing as were the 
terms of the loans from two months at loan one to six months at loan three.
And for loan four the amount more than doubled from the amount borrowed at loan three 
and was more than eight times that borrowed at loan one. Mr F had been borrowing for a 
period of 11 months when he applied for loan four, all of which would suggest that his 
financial circumstances had deteriorated throughout. The lending pattern indicates the 
borrowing was unsustainable.
PDL has told us it asked Mr F additional questions for loan four and also of its income and 
expenditure checks. Mr Fs monthly income was recorded as £2,070 and overall expenses 
(including other loan repayments of £200) were recorded as being £1,176 leaving him with a 
disposable income of £894 compared to the monthly loan repayment of £248.50. So, on the 
face of it, the loan repayments were affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
But taking into account Mr Fs borrowing behaviour with PDL which shows a deteriorating 
financial position, the fact that he had been borrowing with PDL for nearly a year and had 
other short-term lending commitments I think its clear that Mr F was having problems 
managing his money and that the lending was unsustainable for him. So, I dont think PDL 
should have given the lending and Im upholding Mr Fs complaint about loan four.
Loan six
PDL has also given us its income and expenditure checks for loan six. It looks like Mr F had 
a disposable income of £235 after taking into account his expenditure which included £600 
for other short-term loans. Mr Fs monthly repayment for loan six was £248.50 so clearly this 
loan was unaffordable when compared to his disposable income. 
PDL has told us the income and expenditure information had been overwritten by Mr F when 
he set up a repayment plan as he was late in making a repayment for this loan and which 
resulted in lower outgoings for other short-term loans. But it is only the information recorded 
before the loan was agreed that is relevant. And that shows the lending was unaffordable 
and would leave Mr F in a deficit each month. So, I agree that loan six shouldnt have been 
given. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans four and six and PDL 
should put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans four and six;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans four and six from Mr Fs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must give Mr F a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Fs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman