DRN-3664672
Complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) unfairly refused to refund a debit 
card transaction which she says she never authorised.
Background
In March 2021, Mrs P contacted Barclays about a £600 debit card payment made via a well-
known third-party payment service operator. Mrs P told Barclays that she didnt authorise the 
transaction. During the call where she reported the transaction she said that her account 
was hacked and she didnt have an account with the payment service operator used. Finally, 
Mrs P confirmed that her debit card hadnt been lost and had been in her possession at all 
times. Mrs P confirmed that her last transaction was made by her partner on the morning of 
the disputed transaction.
Barclays temporarily refunded the disputed amount pending an investigation into the 
transaction. It concluded that the details held by the payment service operator, for the 
transaction, matched the details it had for Mrs P. There were also numerous other 
transactions, which appeared to have been made by Mrs P, which werent in dispute and 
which had used the same account details. So it didnt consider the transaction fraudulent, 
held Mrs P liable for it and re-debited the amount from her account. Mrs P was dissatisfied at 
this and referred matters to our service. 
One of our adjudicators contacted Mrs P before issuing her findings. Mrs P told our 
adjudicator that her partner only used the internet on rare occasions and usually with her. 
She runs a small B&B and the guests have access to the internet using WiFi as they are 
provided with the password. And the previous transactions Barclays referred to were made 
using her debit card rather than an account, with the payment service operator, as she 
doesnt have one with it. 
After considering everything that had been provided, our adjudicator thought it was more 
likely than not that Mrs P had authorised the transaction. She thought that the transaction 
was made using the same details as those used on several previous, undisputed, occasions 
and as Mrs P confirmed no one else had access to her card it wasnt unfair for Barclays to 
hold her liable for the transaction. So she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.  
My provisional decision of 9 August 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 9 August 2022 - setting out why I was intending to 
uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by setting out that the relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These regulations say that a payment transaction is authorised by the payer where the payer 
has given its consent to the execution to the payment transaction. Such consent must be 
given in the form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between the payer and the 
payment service provider. 
Unless the payment service provider can show consent has been given, it has no authority 
to make a payment or debit the customers account. Where a payment service user denies 
having authorised a payment transaction, it is for the payment service provider to prove that 
the payment transaction in question were authorised by the customer. 
Having considered the facts as well as the relevant law, I was satisfied that the key question 
I needed to determine was whether it was more likely than not that Mrs P authorised the 
transaction in question.
In other words, I needed to decide whether Mrs P made the transaction herself or gave 
someone permission to do so. This is important because a customer will usually be liable for 
payments theyve authorised and generally speaking, a bank will be liable for any 
unauthorised payments. 
This transaction was carried out online, using a well-known third-party payment system, 
without the card being physically presented. Broadly speaking, a customer isnt normally 
responsible for any unauthorised transactions carried out online. 
Barclays believed that Mrs P authorised the transaction. As I understood it, the crux of its 
case was:
The number of inconsistencies throughout the case meant that it was reasonable for 
it to hold Mrs P liable for the transaction. In particular, Barclays focused on the fact 
that Mrs P said she didnt have an account with the third-party payment used to make 
the payment before then saying that she used the system as a guest.   
In any event, the merchant provided evidence the transaction was made through an 
account with the third-party payment system, which was linked with Mrs P.
This account had Mrs Ps confirmed personal and address details.
There were other, non-disputed, transactions with Mrs Ps debit card using the same 
third-party payment system account.
The IP address used for this transaction matched one previously used for 
transactions on the third-party payment system account.
On the other hand, Mrs P consistently said that she didnt have an account with the third-
party payment system operator and she only ever made transactions, via the operator, on a 
guest basis.
I thought about what Barclays and Mrs P had said.
I didnt know whether Mrs P had an account with the operator, or whether she, as she said, 
used its system as a guest. The information provided didnt categorically answer this 
question. Although, I thought it was worth noting that when our adjudicator asked the third-
party payment system operator for the details of any account that Mrs P may hold with it, it 
confirmed that it couldnt locate an account on its systems using Mrs Ps name and email 
address. And it also said these are the details it would use to find an account for one of its 
customers.In any event, I didnt think that Mrs P had been inconsistent in the way that Barclays 
appeared to be suggesting. I said this because I thought that she simply answered the 
questions that she was asked. Mrs P said that she didnt have an account with the third-party 
payment system. In my view, this wasnt the same as saying that she never used the 
payment system before. Furthermore, having looked through everything provided, I couldnt 
see that Mrs P had ever said that she never used the website in question to make previous 
purchases either. So I didnt think that the information Barclays obtained showed that Mrs P 
had been inconsistent in what she had said.
The payment system operator and Barclays by extension had argued that the disputed 
transaction was consistent with Mrs Ps previous activity. It was argued that the IP address, 
billing address and shipping address for the disputed transaction was similar to what was 
used in 12 previous transactions, which Mrs P hadnt disputed authorising, in the previous 18 
months. 
I looked at the evidence provided. All of Mrs Ps previous purchases appeared to be from 
three specific sellers. And I thought it was fair to say that they were all relatively low value 
purchases (the lowest priced item was £2.50 and the most expensive £20.99) for what 
appeared to be clothing. However, the transaction that was the subject of this dispute was a 
£600 purchase for an electronic item from a seller Mrs P didnt appear to have used 
previously. So rather than being consistent with Mrs Ps previous activity, this disputed 
transaction actually appeared out of kilter with Mrs Ps previous purchases on the website 
concerned using the payment operator.
I was also unsure as to what the payment system operator meant when it said the IP 
address, billing address and shipping address for the disputed transaction was similar to 
what was used in 12 previous transactions. Either the details were the same or they were 
not. I was unsure as to how they could be similar  especially as any similarities, or 
differences, had actually been pointed out. 
I thought that it was also worth noting that Barclays was relying on Mrs P having consented 
to this payment because her correct card details as well as her full address details were 
used to validate it and the IP address recorded by the payment operator was one that Mrs P 
had, on occasion, used to make transactions previously. But I couldnt see that the payment 
operators evidence actually showed the IP address that any of the transactions were made 
from. 
I was also concerned that even though it had been put forward that Mrs Ps full address was 
used to authenticate the transaction, neither the payment system operator nor Barclays had 
been able to provide anything which demonstrated the item purchased was dispatched to 
Mrs Ps address let alone received there.
Furthermore, while there was initially a suggestion that Mrs Ps debit card CVV number was 
used to confirm the transaction and our adjudicator referred to this being the case in her 
assessment, Barclays had since confirmed that this wasnt entered. So I thought that we 
were essentially left with Barclays and the payment operator only really being able to 
evidence that Mrs Ps genuine card details were used to authenticate this transaction.  
Barclays records also appeared to indicate that this transaction was authorised at 1.47 AM. I 
acknowledged that this in itself didnt mean that Mrs P didnt authorise the transaction and I 
didnt have the times that the other, non-disputed, transactions with the payment operator 
were made either. So I did accept that it was possible that the timing of this particular 
transaction wasnt out of keeping with Mrs Ps online shopping habits. But bearing in mind 
what I had already said about Mrs Ps previous history of purchases on the website concerned, I did consider it somewhat odd for her to have made this purchase  a first 
electronic item (at least from the website in question)  in the middle of the night.    
Indeed, it was my view that much of Barclays arguments in this case centred on its belief 
that Mrs P authenticated the disputed transaction. I then explained that authentication isnt 
the same as authorisation and even then I wasnt persuaded that the authentication 
evidence provided here was particularly strong either. 
Equally, the evidence supplied by Barclays suggested that Mrs P had never disputed a 
transaction before. And it was for Barclays to prove that Mrs P authorised this payment  not 
for Mrs P to prove that she did not. Nonetheless, even though it wasnt for Mrs P to prove 
that she did not authorise the transaction, it was clear that Mrs P has gone to some lengths  
obtaining a chargeback response from the payment system operator and also attempting to 
track where the item was delivered - to try and do this. 
And I simply wasnt persuaded that Mrs Ps actions were consistent with her having 
authorised the disputed transaction. As this was the case and there are a number of things 
that simply didnt add up, Barclays didnt persuade me that it was more likely than not Mrs P 
authorised the disputed transaction. 
So overall and having considered everything, I wasnt persuaded that it was more likely than 
not that Mrs P did authorise the transaction she was disputing. And I didnt think that it was 
fair and reasonable for Barclays to hold Mrs P liable for the disputed transaction this left me 
intending to issue a final decision which upholds Mrs Ps complaint. 
Mrs Ps response to my provisional decision
Mrs P didnt provide anything further for me to think about.
Barclays response to my provisional decision
Barclays responded to my provisional decision confirming that it didnt agree with it. In 
summary it said:
There is a link between the disputed transaction and a merchant Mrs P uses 
regularly. And the disputed transaction was made in between two transactions for the 
same merchant.
My provisional decision concentrated on the payment system operator. But the 
information provided also suggests a merchant was involved. There is a close link 
between the merchant and the payment system operator, they are closely aligned 
and Mrs Ps card details may have been stored in the system.
It is possible that Mrs P used the opportunity to set up an agreement with the 
merchant to process transactions more quickly as a recurring purchase rather than 
new transactions each time.
So while the transactions may not have been in character with Mrs Ps usage in 
terms of the payment system operator, they were in character for the merchant and 
so there are grounds to hold Mrs P liable for the transaction.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding Mrs Ps complaint, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; industry codes of practice and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time. As the parties continue to disagree 
about what happened, I need to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
here  on the balance of probabilities. 
Ive considered the comments in Barclays response to my provisional decision. 
Barclays says that my provisional decision concentrated on the payment system operator 
but the information shows that a merchant was involved. Ive thought about what Barclays 
has said. However, I did consider the involvement of a merchant in my provisional decision. 
And I referred to Mrs Ps previous history of purchasing items online from the website 
concerned. 
Furthermore, while Barclays has referred to Mrs P having used the merchants website 
before  which shes never disputed  it still hasnt provided me with anything at all to show 
that Mrs P had ever made a purchase from the individual seller, on the website concerned, 
in the disputed transaction, previously.
Equally, while Barclays says this transaction is in character in terms of Mrs Ps previous card 
usage, this is based purely on the fact that Mrs P has used the website before. Again this 
was something that I accepted in my provisional decision. For the avoidance of doubt, I want 
to make it clear that I was (and remain) aware that Mrs P did make transactions on the 
website concerned around the time of the disputed transaction. 
However, the transactions referred to are for much smaller amounts  less than £30 rather 
than the £600 for this disputed transaction. And Barclays hasnt provided anything at all to 
support that Mrs P had previously made purchases for similarly priced electronic items in the 
middle of the night. So I remain satisfied that this purchase was wholly out of kilter with           
Mrs Ps previous transaction history.
Finally, while Barclays has referred to it being possible that Mrs P set up an agreement with 
the merchant to process transactions more quickly as a recurring purchase, it hasnt 
provided anything at all to support this is what happened here. 
Id also reiterate that it is Barclays that needs to prove it is more likely than not Mrs P 
authorised the transaction in question for it to fairly and reasonably hold Mrs P liable for it. 
Speculating over possibilities without rigorous evidence to support the arguments made, just 
isnt enough here. And, in any event, Im satisfied that Barclays arguments remain focused 
on possibility of the disputed transaction having been authenticated, rather than Mrs P 
having authorised it, which isnt enough for Barclays to hold Mrs P liable for it.  
So overall and having considered everything, including Barclays further arguments in 
response to my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that it is more likely than not Mrs P 
did not authorise the transaction shes disputing. This means that I dont think that its fair 
and reasonable for Barclays to hold Mrs P liable for the disputed transaction and Im 
upholding this complaint. 
Fair compensation  what Barclays needs to do to put things right for Mrs P
Having carefully considered everything, I think that Barclays should put things right for Mrs P 
in the following way:Refund Mrs P £600;
Add interest at 8% per year simple on the £600 from the date it was re-debited from 
Mrs Ps account to the date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision of 9 August 2022, Im upholding 
Mrs Ps complaint. Barclays Bank UK Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman