DRN-1778666
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) failed to 
uphold a charge back request and a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA) in respect of the cost of hotel bookings on his credit card.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr P and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr P made an online booking for hotel accommodation in Turkey through a merchant I shall 
refer to as S on the 29 June 2019. He received a booking confirmation by email but when 
he checked it, he saw that there had been a double booking with different dates which he 
had not authorised. Mr S said the booking he made was non-refundable and so he contacted 
S immediately by telephone whom he says agreed that the error had been due to their 
systems, and as such cancelled all the bookings he made and promised to refund him. 
When he had not received the promised refund, he called Barclays to raise a dispute and 
they raised a chargeback, placing the money back in his account on the 31 July 2019. But 
on the 14 September Barclays notified Mr P that the chargeback had been defended and 
debited his account once more for the full amount. 
Barclays said that as there was no evidence that S had agreed to refund Mr P, they were 
unable to continue with the chargeback process. Mr P also wished to raise a claim under 
Section 75 CCA, but Barclays concluded that there was insufficient evidence to establish 
such a claim.
Mr P was unhappy with Barclayss final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and 
having done so, concluded that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the 
complaint fairly.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Barclays has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
I have a lot of sympathy for Mr P because it is very clear he has paid a lot of money for hotel 
accommodation which he has not used. However, the issue for me is how Barclays have 
dealt with his requests for a chargeback and a section 75 claim. It is not to consider whether 
S have dealt with him fairly or not. 
In circumstances such as these a bank will generally look at two ways to try and help their 
customer get their money back. The first is by use of the Chargeback scheme, and the 
second is a claim under Section 75 CCA.
A chargeback claim is a process by which some disputes are resolved between card issuer, 
in this case Barclays, and merchants under the relevant card scheme rules. The chargeback 
rules are set by the card provider, whose symbol is on the card.  In this case it is Visa. That 
card provider has an agreement with lots of banks as to how its cards are used. 
The agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made, which if successful, 
would get the money the customer spent on the card back. Those rules are quite strict, and 
Barclays doesn't have the power to change them. What is important to remember is that 
making a chargeback request just means Barclays will ask for the money back - it doesnt 
mean it will get it. 
If a card issuer agrees to make a Chargeback, then it normally gives its customer a 
temporary refund which is what Barclays did here. But that is subject to the merchant 
defending the request or not. If it doesnt defend it then the customer keeps the money, but if 
it does then the money is debited from the customers account again. Quite often that is the 
end of the matter, but a card issuer can ask to take the matter to arbitration if they think there 
are good grounds for doing so. 
I can see from the evidence provided to me that Barclays initiated the Chargeback with Visa 
and the monies were put back into his Mr Ps account. I fully understand that Mr P says S 
promised him a refund, but the facts suggest otherwise because S challenged the 
Chargeback and that resulted in the money being removed from Mr Ps account. Ive looked 
closely at the evidence supplied, and nowhere can I see that S agreed to refund him. I can 
see that they have confirmed the chargeback took place, but I know they subsequently 
challenged that, because if they hadnt the money would not have left Mr Ps account. 
At that point Barclays were then left in the position of deciding whether to continue with the 
Chargeback process by taking it to arbitration. Although Mr P says that there was a system 
error by S, he has not produced any evidence to support that view, and S have not 
conceded that point either. The alternative is that Mr P actually made the error himself in 
booking the hotel accommodation. I know that the dates for the bookings were different, but 
it looks like only by 1 day, and this was a transaction Mr P conducted himself on line. If that 
is right, then as the terms of the booking were that it was non-refundable then any claim 
taken to arbitration is likely to lose in my view. So, I cant criticise Barclays for not advancing 
the chargeback any further as it probably wouldnt be successful. 
Mr P has supplied a call recording which he feels proves that S have agreed to refund him 
but having listened to the call that is not quite what it reveals. No admissions are made as to 
the alleged system error, and no agreement is made regarding refunding Mr P. And this call, 
needs to be balanced against the fact that S have still not actually provided Mr P with the 
refund, which they could if they wished. So, on balance it seems to me that S are actually 
not agreeable to a refund.Mr P has also raised the issue of whether Barclays could have used a different chargeback 
code, but to do that they would need evidence, of which there is none. So, I dont consider 
that Barclays should have raised the chargeback using a different code.
The next issue is whether Barclays ought to have accepted a claim under section 75 CCA. In 
certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services, and the provider of the credit. But that is dependent on being 
able to first establish that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. 
So, the issue becomes whether Barclays thought that there had been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. Mr P clearly believes there was, but my role is to look at what Barclays 
thought and then did. Here, they looked at the evidence they had been supplied with, which 
was sparse, and based on that were unable to conclude that such a claim would be 
successful. They say the evidential picture being unclear, which it is. Whilst Mr P makes 
assertions that S accepted they had a system error, S have not confirmed this, and neither 
have they agreed to a refund. There is therefore an absence of any evidence pointing to S 
breaching the contract or making a mis-representation.
And, as the terms of the contract were that the transaction was non-refundable, all of this 
means any such claim would be speculative as there is no compelling evidence to support 
the view that there has been any breach of contract or misrepresentation on the suppliers 
part. So, in considering whether Barclays were fair in declining to accept a section 75 claim I 
think they were.
So, although Mr P will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Barclays has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman