The complaint
Mr S complains about how Santander UK Plc dealt with an international transfer.
What happened
Mr S lives abroad and holds an account with Santander. On Friday 19 July 2019 he tried to 
set up an online payment instruction to transfer £35000 from his Santander account to an 
account he holds overseas. 
Mr S said he was expecting to receive an one-time passcode (OTP) on his mobile 
telephone. But this didnt happen. So he contacted Santander and was told hed need to 
request his transfer over the telephone because the OTP was only reliable on making 
transfers within the UK.
Mr S asked Santander to set up his transfer over the telephone and was told to expect a 
security call later that day or by Monday 22 July 2019 at the latest. But Mr S didnt receive a 
call and, on contacting Santander to chase it, was informed it hadnt been able to reach him 
on his telephone number. So, his transfer request had been cancelled.
Mr S informed Santander he was in serious financial difficulties as he needed access to the 
funds he wanted to transfer. But he was told hed have to re-request the transfer. Mr S said 
he subsequently set up the transfer instruction using online banking. This time he received 
an OTP and believed his transfer had been approved. 
By Tuesday 23 July 2019 the funds hadnt credited Mr S account. And he hadnt received a 
security call from Santander. So, he contacted it to query the whereabouts of his money. Mr 
S was told his transfer had been cancelled again. He told Santander the implications of not 
having access to his funds. But it instructed him to set up an online transfer again, which Mr 
S did.
The following day Mr S still hadnt received his money and found himself locked out of his 
account. He telephoned Santander for assistance and was told his transfer had, again, been 
cancelled. During that call Santander told Mr S hed need to provide additional verification. 
But, as he was unable to attend a branch with the required documentation, he could provide 
them by email.
Mr S provided the documents required by email. And, later that day, he contacted Santander 
to query the status of his transfer. However, he was informed it had been cancelled again. 
During this call Mr S complained about how Santander had been dealing with his transfer 
request and said it assured him his payment would go through within 24 hours.
On Thursday 25 July 2019 Mr S contacted Santander by secure message to explain that he 
still hadnt received his transfer. And he made it aware of the distress and inconvenience this 
was causing him and his family. He didnt receive a reply so, on Friday 26 July 2019, he 
DRN-1614831telephoned the complaints department to raise further concerns. During this call Santander 
assisted him in completing his transfer and the funds debited his UK account.
When Santander formally responded to Mr S complaint it told him that his transfer request 
had triggered a fraud check. And it said additional verification was therefore required before 
the funds could be transferred. It explained that, because Mr S wasnt based in the UK and 
wasnt able to attend a branch to provide verification documents, it had permitted him to 
provide what was needed by email. And it said it had been able to complete the transfer on 
26 July 2019.  
While Santander felt it had followed the correct security processes it recognised Mr S had 
received shortfalls in service. So, it credited his account with £400 compensation as an 
apology for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
But Mr S wasnt happy with Santanders response to his complaint. He said, as a result of 
the delays hed experienced with his transfer, hed suffered financial loss. He also said hed 
been caused significant trouble and upset, which hadnt been adequately recognised by 
Santanders compensation payment. So he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator assessed the information Mr S and Santander had provided. They 
empathised with Mr S, but thought Santander had dealt with this complaint fairly. They didnt 
think it had made in error in subjecting Mr S transfer to a security check. And they thought 
the compensation it had paid for the shortfalls in service Mr S had experienced was fair. So 
they didnt think Santander needed to do anything more. But Mr S disagreed and asked for 
his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I can see Mr S has gone to some 
trouble to provide us with some very detailed submissions. I want to assure him that I have 
read everything he has sent us. I hope he will understand if I dont address every comment 
hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr S experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels 
about the issues raised in this complaint. But Im not going to be able to help him in the way 
he would like. Ill explain why. 
My role is to assess whether I think Santander made a mistake, or treated Mr S unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. I have to look at this complaint impartially and, 
while Ive had regard to all Mr S has said, I also have to be fair to Santander too. 
The starting point here is that Santander should follow its customers requests, unless 
theres good reason not to. It isnt disputed that Mr S attempted to set up his payment online 
on 19 July 2019. As he didnt receive the OTP that was required to complete the transfer he 
needed to contact Santander for assistance with his payment. Santander told Mr S and our 
service that the payment instruction was referred to its security team as it had triggered a 
fraud alert.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially 
fraudulent transactions. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its customers. To do so a bank may delay online payments and subject them to additional 
checks if it reasonably suspects they may be fraudulent.
I can understand that Mr S may want Santander to tell him why his payment attracted a 
fraud check. But thats commercially sensitive information and Santander is under no 
obligation to tell Mr S its reasons, as much as he may want to know. Our service cant tell it 
to share this information with him and I dont think itd be fair for me to ask Santander to 
elaborate any further on the information its already provided Mr S. 
Mr S has told our service that, as a result of his payment being delayed, he experienced 
financial hardship. He said he had to borrow money from friends. And he said the health of 
him and his wife was also impacted. But, while I sympathise with how Mr S and his family 
were affected by what happened, I cant reasonably criticise Santander for being vigilant to 
fraud or having processes in place to check the authenticity of online payments. This was 
just as much for Mr S protection as it was for Santanders. 
I can appreciated that when Santander delayed Mr S online payment it was an inconvenient 
and frustrating experience  especially given that this transaction was genuine. But, the sum 
Mr S wanted to transfer was very large. And Santander was unable to process his payment 
request until it was able to undertake its verification procedures with Mr S. This is in line with 
terms and conditions of Mr S account.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Santander requested verification 
documentation from Mr S in line with its security procedure and in good faith. It also 
permitted him to provide the documents required by email given that he wasnt able to attend 
a branch, which is a fair approach for it to take. It follows that I cant fairly conclude that 
Santander made an error when it delayed Mr S online payment.
I can see that Mr S provided the verification documentation Santander required on 24 July 
2019. And Ive seen evidence that his payment was transferred on 26 July 2019. This was in 
line with Santanders 48 hour timeline for payments being processed. So, I cant find it made 
any errors in processing Mr S payment once it was in receipt of his verification 
documentation.
Where I think Santander could have done things better, however, is that it could have 
communicated with Mr S more about his transfer. It made errors in dialling Mr S phone 
number and he had to chase it for updates about his payment. 
Like our investigator, I also think Santander could have made Mr S aware of the additional 
documents he needed to provide prior to 24 July. If it had I believe Mr S funds may have 
been transferred sooner.
Santander has already accepted Mr S received shortfalls in service. And its credited his 
account with £400 compensation to recognise that. Its clear that Mr S doesnt think this 
adequately reflects his inconvenience and experience. So, Ive carefully considered whether 
it acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right.
As our investigator has already explained our service isnt here to punish 
businesses. Having thought very carefully about the impact all of this had on Mr S, Im 
satisfied that the £400 compensation already paid by Santander is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its clear to me that Mr S experience here went beyond mere irritation. He was caused 
distress and inconvenience by what happened. He had to spend time contacting Santander 
from abroad on a number of occasions in order to understand the problems with his transfer. He also said the delay in his transfer being processed led to a reduction in the amount of 
money crediting his overseas account due to exchange rate differences. And, as Ive already 
mentioned, he suffered financial hardship and deterioration in his and his wifes health while 
awaiting his transfer. He also says he incurred health care costs and suffered a loss of 
income.
I can understand how worrying and inconvenient all of this was for Mr S. And its only right 
that Santander recognises this. However, Im satisfied that the £400 already paid is a fair 
amount of compensation thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Mr S 
wouldve been caused here. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what I 
would have told Santander to pay. I appreciate that Mr S wants Santander to pay more. But I 
havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is warranted here.
So, while Mr S may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation Santander has 
already paid recognises the trouble and upset caused in the overall circumstances of this 
complaint. So I wont be directing it to pay any more.
I know that Mr S will be disappointed by this decision. But, this now brings to an end what 
we, in trying to resolve Mr S dispute with Santander informally, can do for him. Im sorry we 
cant help Mr S any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman