DRN-3326951
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here was about 
eight years old and had already completed about 44,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect a degree of wear and tear to be present.
That relevant legislation also says that when we consider whether goods have been of 
satisfactory quality we also need to consider whether theyve been durable. And here, I dont 
think they have.
Online research suggests a timing chain should last at least 80,000 miles. The mechanic 
who serviced Mr Ss car in July 2021 agreed. It was his view that the timing chain was 
showing signs of failing at the time of the service and that the timing chain had failed 
prematurely.
Mr S has shown evidence that the service was completed in July 2021 when the cars 
mileage was 53,500. So, theres evidence Mr S maintained the car within the manufacturers 
guidance.
Im persuaded that Mr S didnt contribute to the failure by not caring for the car and that the 
timing chain therefore failed prematurely. I dont think this car has been of satisfactory 
quality.
Putting things right
Ive considered whether to tell MotoNovo to repair the car or whether, in the circumstances, 
rejection is warranted.
Mr S has been without the car since October 2021. I think, on balance, it is likely that he told 
the dealership about the knocking noise only a few months after taking receipt of the car and 
that the knocking noise was likely to be the first sign of the belt failing. I say that because the 
mechanic that completed the service in June 2021 said there was a knocking noise that was 
related to the timing chain, and because I think there would have been audible indication of 
failure before the chain failed. 
So, I think Mr S has been waiting too long for the car to be repaired and I think the business 
had the opportunity to repair the car when Mr S first reported the issue to them, after only a 
few months of driving.
In those circumstances I think MotoNovo should now allow Mr S to reject the car and end his 
finance agreement with them.
Theyll need to refund any deposit that was paid, and they should add interest to that refund 
as Mr S will have been deprived of the money.
Its clear Mr S has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take his car to the 
dealership for repair and I think its clear hes had to put up with a noisy engine for some 
time. Hes also had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think MotoNovo could 
have resolved matters earlier for him. In the circumstances, I think MotoNovo should pay   
Mr S £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr S stopped using the car in October 2021 and its not fair for him to pay for a car he hasnt 
been using. So, MotoNovo should refund any finance instalments hes paid since 1 October 
2021 and they should add interest to that refund as Mr S has been deprived of the money.
Im not persuaded that MotoNovo need to refund any of the other finance instalments that 
have been paid. Its only fair that Mr S pays for the use he had from the car and the mileage 
records show he had a reasonable use of the car before October 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr S.Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments Mr S has paid since 1 October 2021 in respect of 
lack of use and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
Pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr Ss credit file in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman