DRN-3335108
The complaint
B, a business operated by a sole trader, complains that Retail Merchant Services Limited 
mis-sold a terminal hire and merchant processing agreement.
What happened
B had an existing agreement with a different business. The owner of B was persuaded to 
cancel that agreement and enter into one with Retail Merchant Services. B says that it hasnt 
made the savings promised and in some months charges have been higher. It also didnt 
know that it was entering into a 48-month agreement and wants to cancel it.
Retail Merchant Services said that it hadnt made any mistake. It said that B had signed an 
agreement, and this had then been sent to it electronically. That was for 48 months and B 
was reasonably responsible for reading the agreement before signing. It had sent B a further 
email showing that it was making a more than eight per cent saving on its processing rates 
and that this was evidence Retail Merchant Services was competitive. It had now offered B a 
reduced cancellation fee with no liquidated damages. The full amount owed would be 
£2,617.80 but this was reduced to £857.80 (both figures exclusive of VAT). It also said it had 
removed the merchant authorisation fee for 1 July 2021 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. An initial email from the 
sales representative had referred to Retail Merchant Services offering up to 45% savings, 
but these werent guaranteed. After B had signed the contract he had referred to it saving 
some £20 a month and it had since been confirmed it was saving up to eight percent. The 
fees were in line with the agreement that B had signed, and it was fairly up to B to ensure it 
understood the terms. The cancellation fees were also in line with the terms and conditions 
and as set out Retail Merchant Services had offered a reduction. She appreciated B wasnt 
saving as much as it thought it would but didnt think that this was due to any mistake by 
Retail Merchant Services.
B didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. It had sent evidence that 
the costs were higher and that it had expected reductions. B wouldnt otherwise have 
switched. The representative of Retail Merchant Services was very convincing about the 
savings and the owner fell for the sales pitch and relied on him saying he was a director and 
would resolve any issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the email correspondence B has provided. An initial email from the 
representative did refer to savings of up to 45%. That email went on to say that an appraisal 
could be provided for B if it gave details of its current actual transaction charges. The 
representative signed this email as Senior Sales Partner. B signed an agreement and 
hasnt provided any written evidence of any charges appraisal at the time. I cant know 
exactly what was said in any meeting.
B wrote to the representative subsequently and he referred to the lower monthly terminal 
rental cost than before and lack of other listed fees for payments and which in total came to 
£20 per month. And said that with the reduction in charges B should see a reduction overall. 
Retail Merchant Services did a detailed comparison of those charges based on invoice data 
submitted by B and came up with the reduction of eight per cent referred to above.
B has provided a number of comparisons of current charges to those in past months with the 
previous provider when monthly turnover was similar. While debit card rates are lower it has 
referred to an increase in credit card percentage rates and other costs. 
Ive looked closely at what B has provided. It indicates for example in April 2021 that overall 
charges were lower but that they have since been higher than before. It has done this as I 
say by finding a month of charges from the previous provider (here I understand to be 
September 2018) when card turnover was similar.
I think it is difficult to make these comparisons in this way given that the mix of card turnover 
affects charges and there may have been other variations. I note for example that the 
statement given from the previous provider of January 2020 Bs also referred to seems to 
include an unusually low level of miscellaneous charges and a terminal rental discount. An 
invoice of October 2020 for turnover of £7,335 is for a charge of £110.67. And Bs invoice 
from Retail Merchant Services in June 2021 relates to higher turnover of £8,169 and is for 
£93.08. From what Ive seen Im not persuaded that Bs information reliably indicates overall 
charges are now higher on a like for like basis.
In any event I think B could reasonably have done the sort of comparisons its making now 
before committing to the new contract. Im afraid I dont agree it didnt reasonably have the 
opportunity to do so. And I havent seen any evidence that specific savings were guaranteed 
or that the rates discussed, and any reductions werent part of what was shown in the 
agreement. And I think that the term was clear from the signed agreement Ive seen which 
stated that the period was from 28 January 2021 to 28 January 2025.
Retail Merchant Services has already reduced a specific charge in July 2021 as set out. It 
has offered as a gesture of goodwill to reduce the cancellation fees that would be due if B 
does choose to end the contract early. If B wants to accept that it will need to contact Retail 
Merchant Services directly.
I appreciate the owner of B will be disappointed by my assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman