DRN-2480830
The complaint
B complained through their representative that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc trading as 
Ansvar Insurance (Ansvar) unfairly declined part of a claim for theft under Bs commercial 
insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2017, Bs representative told Ansvar about the theft of a boiler. The boiler was 
located outside, on one of the outer walls of the insured premises. Bs representative made a 
claim through Bs Connect insurance policy.
On 31 October 2017, Ansvar asked their loss adjuster to investigate the claim.
The theft had caused an oil leak which contaminated the surrounding ground. Ansvar 
covered most of the claim, which related to the damage caused by the oil leak. But they 
declined to replace the stolen oil boiler.
B wasnt happy that part of the claim was declined, so they referred it to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Ansvar hadnt acted unfairly when 
theyd declined to replace the boiler under the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two questions I need to answer before I can decide on this complaint.
First, was it fair and reasonable for Ansvar to consider the oil boiler to be External 
metalwork? And, if yes, was it fair and reasonable for Ansvar to enforce the endorsement 
on the policy which required external metalwork to be protected using SmartWater?
Ive relied on the policy schedule issued on 9 October 2017, covering the period of insurance 
from 17 June 2017 to 16 June 2018 in this response.
External Metalwork
Ive looked at the policy wording and note that external metalwork isnt defined. However, 
the definition for buildings includes the following:
The buildings at the premises used for your activities including:
plant or equipment external to the buildings belonging to you, and for which you are 
responsible.
Having looked at the policy wording, I think its reasonable for Ansvar to say that the oil
boiler falls under the definitions of Buildings, as it could be plant or equipment. And looking 
at the photo that shows where the boiler was placed, I can see it was outside. Considering 
that the oil boiler is made of metal I accept that it was reasonable for Ansvar to consider it as 
external metalwork. 
As the oil boiler was stolen, it was reasonable for Ansvar to say the theft fell under theft of 
external metalwork. This is covered by the policy, under Section 1, 4b Theft of external 
metalwork. However its subject to an endorsement to the policy which was detailed in the 
policy schedule (endorsement 581):
THEFT OF EXTERNAL METALWORK
You are required as a condition precedent to our liability for damage by theft or attempted 
theft of external metalwork of the buildings to ensure that at the time of any damage you 
have:
i) protected the external metalwork of the buildings with SmartWater, and 
ii) displayed the SmartWater signage, and
iii) registered the use with SmartWater Technology Ltd
Bs representatives said that they dont believe the definition of metalwork under the policy 
was meant for an oil burner. They felt the Theft of external metalwork endorsement was 
meant to include metal in the fabrication of the building itself. They felt that this was 
supported by the Insurers technical team when they confirmed that they only added a 
further endorsement - endorsement 097  Excluding Theft of external boiler after Bs claim. 
Bs representatives saw the addition of endorsement 097 as proof that the insurer felt 
endorsement 581 hadnt covered the boiler. Ansvar responded to these points by stating that 
they sought to provide further clarity by amending the exclusions to specifically state external 
boilers to avoid any further confusion by the policyholders. Taking what everyone has said 
into account, Im not persuaded that Ansvar did anything wrong when they found the oil 
boiler to be external metalwork. So Im not persuaded that it was unreasonable for Ansvar to 
consider the theft of the oil boiler under the Theft of external metalwork section of the 
policy. So now I need to move on to the next question: Was it fair and reasonable for Ansvar 
to enforce the endorsement?
Was it fair to enforce the endorsement?
First, I should note that the SmartWater endorsement isnt unusual in commercial insurance 
policies like this one. As to whether the enforcement of the endorsement was fair and 
reasonable, I need to decide if its relevant to the individual circumstances of the loss.
Ansvar have said that the purpose of having an endorsement of this nature is to protect 
against the theft of high-risk items which are naturally in an exposed position. They note that 
the attractiveness of the oil burner to theft has been evidenced by it having been stolen, 
showing that an endorsement such as this is relevant to the risk. B considered that 
SmartWater wasnt available for concerns like theirs. They felt that this was an unusual 
request for such a small risk. So B felt that the requirement to use SmartWater was 
unreasonable. Looking on the SmartWater website I can see that they do offer security 
packages aimed at similar establishments. Taking what everyone has said into account, I 
find Ansvars argument more persuasive.
SmartWater technology involves registering with SmartWater, uniquely marking items so that 
they are traceable, and employing highly visible warning signage on and around the 
premises. This acts as a deterrent to potential thieves. So Im persuaded that if itd been 
used it couldve prevented the loss. So it was fair for Ansvar to enforce the endorsement and 
to decline that part of the claim when B didnt comply with the endorsement. 
I know this will be disappointing to B. But I do think Ansvar acted fairly and reasonably when 
they declined part of Bs claim. So I cant uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Joanne Occleshaw
Ombudsman