DRN-3339662
The complaint
The estate of Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to provide 
information regarding a personal equity plan.
The estate is represented by Mr R, the late Mrs Rs husband.
What happened
Mrs R sadly passed away in 2014. When sorting through some papers in 2020 Mr R came 
across some records relating to a personal equity plan and has tried to establish details of it.
Halifax explained that it wasnt allowed to administer this particular plan, so it had been 
passed to a third party to administer. Unhappy with this, Mr R referred his complaint to this 
service on behalf of the estate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She conducted an 
investigation and explained why Halifax wouldnt be in a position to give Mr R the answers 
that he was looking for.
Mr R appealed. He maintained that the investment had been with Halifax and that it had 
broken regulatory rules.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should explain that this service does not regulate financial industry. Our function is to 
resolve complaints in accordance with the rules that govern us  we provide a free 
alternative to the courts. Here Ive focused on the key issue. If theres something I havent 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I find is the right outcome.  
As our investigator explained personal equity plans - or PEPs  were replaced by ISAs in 
1999. When Halifax demutualised Mrs R, as a customer, became eligible for shares which 
could be held either on an investment platform or in an investment wrapper  known then as 
a PEP. Mrs Rs shares were held in a PEP but as the only investment was Halifax shares it 
wasnt allowed to administer the shares. Accordingly the PEP was passed to a third party  
Ill call it B. I dont find that Halifax was at fault here given that it wasnt able to administer 
the PEP itself. 
B carried out all administration, including closing accounts, until 2016 when the 
administration of the PEP was transferred to another financial business which Ill call C. C 
confirmed to Mr R that Mrs Rs account didnt form part of the migration. Our investigator 
explained that this meant it was likely that the account was closed whilst it was administered 
by B. Our investigator contacted B and asked it to conduct a search of its records using the 
account number and Mrs Rs details, but nothing was found.
Like our investigator I recognise that this is frustrating for Mr R, but his complaint is about 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. I am satisfied that it wasnt able to administer the 
account, and therefore the investment had moved out of its control. I note that Mr R has 
details of who did administer the account. In the circumstances here I dont find Halifax has 
done anything wrong.
Im sorry not to bring Mr R on behalf of the estate of Mrs R more welcome news. 
My final decision
For the reason given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman