DRN-3556797
The complaint
Miss W complains about Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifaxs (Halifax) handling of a 
request she made relating to her current account.
 
What happened
Miss W asked Halifax to send her some copy statements. She said she was very clear about 
the timeframe in which she needed them, and the potential consequences shed face if she 
didnt receive them in the timeframe she set out. Miss W says the bank refused her request 
to send all the statements together rather than in separate bundles. Miss W says the adviser 
she spoke to lacked empathy when she told them about the impact the banks handling of 
her request had on her. She made a complaint, saying to put things right she wanted an 
apology and compensation for the losses she would incur as a result of not receiving the 
statements, along with the distress and inconvenience experienced. Miss W also complained 
about a call she had with an adviser. 
Halifax responded to the complaint. It agreed it hadnt sent all the statements Miss W asked 
for and arranged for replacement to be sent. It sent a cheque for £75. Halifax also later also 
paid Miss W £40 in recognition of how part of the call that she had complained about had 
been handled. It said it thought that part of the call hadnt been acceptable when the adviser 
said the statements could be sent by recorded delivery, which wasnt something that could 
be offered. 
Miss W asked us to look into her complaint. One of our investigators did so and said she 
thought the compensation offered was fair. As Miss W didnt agree, this matter has been 
passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to confirm that while Ive considered everything, Im not going to 
address each and every complaint issue  Im not required to do so. My decision here 
focuses on what I consider to be the most relevant points of the complaint. I trust both sides 
wont take this as a discourtesy, rather its a reflection of this services informal nature. 
Miss W has three primary concerns about the banks handling of the statements. The time it 
took for them to arrive from the point of asking for them, the fact some arrived damaged and 
that the bank told her to go into a branch and ask for copies.
The banks notes show Miss W asked for the statements on 21 September 2021 and these 
could take up to 10 working days to be issued. The bank says there isnt an audit trail to 
show exactly when the statements were dispatched, but its satisfied they were. As they 
hadnt arrived by 17 October, the bank sent further copies, but Miss W says they arrived wet 
and she wasnt able to use them. While they took longer to arrive with Miss W than 
expected, I cant be sure Halifax delayed issuing them.  
On balance, I think it more likely than not that the statements were sent to Miss W. But I 
dont think the bank can be held responsible for the condition they arrived in. Given the 
statements were delivered by a third party, its not possible to know for certain whether the 
statements were damaged before or after they were sent by Halifax and handled by the third 
party.  
The bank acknowledges Miss W was told she could go to a branch and ask for statements. 
However, because the account had been closed, a branch wasnt able to print out a 
complete history as required by Miss W. I think though, when Miss W first contacted the 
bank to ask about copy statements, it was for the bank to tell her there was a limit to the 
number of pages that could be sent at any one time. Additionally, Miss W was wrongly 
directed to the branch by an adviser. This was for two reasons. The first being that the 
branch couldnt produce the statements she needed. And significantly, there were contact 
notes that showed she had told the bank she wouldnt be able to travel because her health 
conditions resulted in her experiencing severe pain. 
I think the bank should have done more here to ensure it was giving accurate information 
about the information Miss W requested and the fact it didnt do so impacted Miss W.
In its final response dated 5 November 2021, the bank offered £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience experienced. In a later final response the bank offered £40, in respect of how 
one of its agents handled a request from Miss W. It said the agent promised the statements 
would be sent to Miss W in a way that wasnt possible. 
I appreciate Miss W made a number of phone calls to try and get this matter resolved, and 
she also found handling this matter difficult. Having carefully considered the circumstances, 
Im satisfied the total payment of £115 offered by the bank was a fair and reasonable amount 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience Miss W experienced by being wrongly advised 
to go to the branch when it wasnt able to fulfil her request. Im not going to require Halifax to 
increase the compensation payment already offered.
While the bank hasnt been able to provide an audit trail showing exactly when they were 
dispatched, I have seen notes to show the statements were requested the day Miss W 
asked for them. The bank said it usually sends copy statements by regular mail (not by 
recorded delivery). Given customers can request statements for a variety of reasons and 
Miss Ws request wasnt an unusual one, I consider it is more likely than not that the 
statements were sent. However, I cant hold the bank responsible for Miss W not receiving 
the statements in time.
Miss W says she needed the statements to support her attempt to reclaim costs in a 
separate complaint. And she says the fact she didnt receive these statements in time means 
she wasnt awarded her costs back. I asked Miss W to send me some further information to 
support her view that the reason her costs werent refunded was because the statements 
werent provided. 
Ive reviewed the emails Miss W provided. However, none of those emails offer any 
assurances that providing statements would automatically result in her costs being 
reimbursed. Im not persuaded that any delay in the statements being received was the sole 
reason Miss W wasnt awarded the costs she says she was owed. Im not going to require 
Halifax to take any further action in respect of this. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman