DRN-4135850
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy because errors were made by The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society
Limited (Royal London) in connection with his pension plan which took time to correct. Mr D
says as a result of the delay he was unable to switch his pension fund out of Royal Londons
Enhanced Cash Plus Fund.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 17 April 2023. Ive recapped what I said about the 
background to Mr Ds complaint and my provisional findings. 
Mr Ds pension policy with Royal London was set up in June 2016 when Mr D transferred 
the value of benefits he held in an employers pension scheme. Mr Ds attitude to risk had 
been assessed as adventurous (9 out of 10) and the transfer proceeds were invested in 
Royal Londons Governed Portfolio 8 (GP 8) which was rated as adventurous. Mr D has 
Fixed Protection 2016. On 9 September 2019 Mr D switched his fund into Royal Londons
Enhanced Cash Plus Fund.
In April 2021 Mr D wanted to take his tax free cash (TFC) and a further lump sum from his
pension. To do so he had to switch to a different product with Royal London. On 24 April
2021 he returned Royal Londons Simplified Application Form for a Pension Portfolio with
Income Release.
In his covering letter he said he wanted to drawdown his maximum cash position from his
pension fund. Mr D set out that his full TFC with his Fixed Protection 2016 (which gave him a
Lifetime Allowance (LTA) of £1.25 million) was £312,500. He also wanted to take, as a taxed
lump sum, the value of his pension fund over £1.25 million which, based on the previous
months valuation of £1,814,000, was £554,000. Mr D said he understood hed have to pay
tax at 55% on that sum so hed get a net payment of £249,300 which, added to the
£312,500, would give him a total payment of £561,800. Mr D added:
Finally, once my residual fund has been crystalised, I will review the various Royal London
Governed Portfolio choices and switch the invested funds away from cash. This is to be
done so the funds have the potential for some growth until I am 60, this being the likely date
that I will start to draw an income from my Pension, as always planned.
Unfortunately things didnt go smoothly. Royal London made some errors. The amount of the
TFC was wrong and Royal London also made an income payment of £554,000 (gross) that
Mr D hadnt asked for. There were exchanges about what had happened and how it could be
put right. That entailed Mr D returning all of the money hed received to cancel the previous
payments and start the process again. Mr D received a payment totalling £566,678.31 on 20
May 2021. It then took a very long time to correct the errors that had been made and so that
when Mr D viewed his account online it reflected the corrected position. There were a large
number of exchanges between Mr D and Royal London. Ive just referred to a very small
number which are directly relevant to the issue Im deciding.
Mr Ds email of 31 May 2021: Mr D referred to the timescales for the residual funds fix. He
said, once that was known, checked and confirmed he wanted to switch his residual fund to
another Royal London Governed Portfolio as hed advised in his letter of 24 April 2021, the
relevant section of which he quoted. He said a cash fund clearly didnt suit his investment
strategy going forward  seeking to build his fund prior to any future initial drawdown. He
added he was now over a month out of the market, given he had no access to his fund to
make a suitable investment choice.
Mr Ds email of 20 June 2021: Amongst other things he confirmed he was able to see his
residual funds through his online account. It seems he noticed from that the fix hadnt been
done correctly as it had been done on the basis hed been invested in Royal Londons Cash
Plus Fund, not the Enhanced Cash Plus Fund.
Royal Londons email of 6 July 2021: Royal London accepted that it hadnt handled the
matter well and offered compensation.
Mr Ds email of 7 July 2021: Amongst other things he said hed been unable to invest his
residual pension funds for growth for over two months. He added:
To date, whilst I have researched what funds I propose to invest in, I am holding off making
any switch now as, given my continued dissatisfaction with Royal London, I am seriously
considering switching providers, another conversation I will hold with [Mr Ds financial
adviser].
Royal Londons email of 8 July 2021: Royal London noted Mr D hadnt completed a switch
as yet and hed said he was holding off making any switch as hed lost confidence in Royal
London.
Things still werent sorted out and the exchanges continued. By November 2021 Mr D
wanted to transfer to a new provider. It wasnt until 26 January 2022 that Royal London sent
the transfer value of £934,984.85 to the new provider.
Royal London upheld Mr Ds complaint about the time taken to correct his plan. Royal
London apologised and offered compensation of £2,650. That included £135.52 which was
the difference in transfer values between 21 November 2021 (£935,120.37) and 26 January
2022 (£934,984.85). Mr D was also seeking compensation for lost investment growth
between 31 May 2021 and 26 January 2022. Royal London didnt agree to pay that. Royal
London said there was no clear instruction from Mr D confirming he intended to switch to a
specific fund.
Mr D referred his complaint to us. His position was that, but for Royal Londons multiple
errors, hed have been able to have invested his residual fund with effect from no later than
31 May 2021. He says it was made clear to Royal London that, after hed withdrawn his TFC
and pension commencement lump sum (PCLS), his residual fund would be invested for
growth in one of Royal Londons Governed Portfolio Fund  probably GP 8. Instead he was
trapped in Royal Londons Enhanced Cash Plus Fund. He was seeking the difference
between the transfer value paid on 22 January 2022 and what that value wouldve been had
his residual fund been invested.
Mr D explained how it came about that in September 2019 hed transferred to a cash based
fund. Hed wanted to grow the fund as quickly as possible until his 55th birthday when hed
take his maximum tax free cash to buy a second property. That strategy worked well and by
September 2019 the fund had grown significantly and had reached a value in excess of £1.8
million which was sufficient to support the second property purchase, budgeted at £500,000.
But no suitable property had been found. So Mr D switched to a cash fund to protect the
growth achieved and especially as external economic conditions couldve (and wouldve)impacted the fund value.
Mr D found a suitable property which was being redeveloped. His fund remained in cash.
That wasnt a reflection of his attitude to risk but the need to protect capital for a known
transaction. The property purchase completed in May 2021 which meant Mr D took his TFC
and a PCLS leaving a residual fund of £937,500. He was still working and wouldnt need to
make any further income withdrawals until he reached age 60. He referred to what hed said
in his letter dated 24 April 2021 and his email of 31 May 2021 as evidence of his plan to
review the Governed Portfolios and reinvest his fund for growth.
Mr D also explained why hed remained in a cash based fund since the transfer of his fund
away from Royal London. Hes setting up a SSAS (Small Self Administered Scheme) with
the aim of lending to small businesses which, although the lending will be secured, isnt a
low risk strategy. And he pointed to uncertain global economic conditions which meant
retaining funds in cash was necessary to protect capital awaiting investment.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Amongst other things she said Royal Londons offer
of £135.52 was restricted in time from when the process to transfer to a new provider started
and the transfer being executed. Which itself took over two months, as Royal London still
needed to resolve issues on Mr Ds plan, some six months after his initial instructions had
been executed incorrectly. The investigator accepted Mr D had made it clear to Royal
London that, post withdrawal of his TFC and PCLS, the residual fund would be invested in a
Governed Portfolio Fund. That was supported by his letter dated 24 April 2021 and his email
of 31 May 2021. The investigator said Royal London shouldve asked Mr D to nominate a
Governed Portfolio knowing his plan hadnt been corrected and it was unclear when that
would be.
The investigator also said Mr D had been invested in GP 8 on 9 September 2019 and
remained in that Fund before transferring to drawdown in April 2021, which further supported
what Mr D had said about the Governed Portfolios suiting his needs and objectives. As Ive
noted below, that wasnt in fact the case  Mr D had been invested in GP 8 but hed
switched in September 2019 to the Enhanced Cash Plus Fund.
The investigator considered what Royal London had said about why it didnt agree Mr D was
entitled to lost investment growth. But the investigator maintained it was highly likely Mr D
wouldve invested in one of the Governed Portfolios. So redress on the basis Mr D had
proposed  based on the average return achieved for all nine Governed Portfolios between
31 May 2021 and 26 January 2022  was fair and reasonable.
Royal London didnt agree and made the following points:
The application form for the Income Release plan asked for the choice of investment
funds to be completed. Mr D didnt do that and said in his covering letter hed review
and likely choose one of the Governed Portfolio Funds.
There were issues with the setting up of the Income Release plan and on 31 May
2021 Mr D emailed again to say hed review and choose the appropriate fund once
the errors were fixed. Hed made no decision at that point and certainly no decision to
invest in GP 8.
Although there were problems when Mr Ds Income Release plan was set up, there
was nothing stopping him from reviewing the available funds and making a selection.
Royal London wouldve then been able to invest his funds accordingly on completion
of the fix and backdate to the date of confirmation.
Royal London referred to an email in June 2021 that Mr D was able to review his
wifes plan and value as he was invested in the same cash fund and so confirm ifRoyal Londons fix was correct. That further demonstrates Mr D was aware of the
correct value and could decide which fund to invest in.
Mr D is an experienced investor. Hes aware of market conditions and does his own
research. Hed transferred into a low risk fund in September 2019 when there was
market uncertainty due to Brexit. And, when he transferred to his new provider, he
remained invested in low risk deposit funds which Royal London suggested was due
to continuing market uncertainty. Royal London didnt think Mr D wouldve invested in
GP 8 when market conditions were as volatile as they were during Covid and
continuing today.
Royal London isnt authorised to give advice and must act on the instructions of the
policyholder or appointed adviser. On 31 May 2021 Mr D made it clear he was still to
review the available funds. Mr D couldve informed Royal London of his chosen fund
but he didnt do that. He has a background in financial services and complaints
handling and couldve made a decision about fund choice.
What the investigator had said about Mr D being invested in GP 8 until April 2021
wasnt correct.
Royal London said, given we were impartial, it was strange that Mr D had put forward
his suggestions for redress and wed accepted that.
Royal London said Mr D had failed to review the available funds and make a
selection. Although there were ongoing issues there was nothing to stop Mr D from
making a decision and communicating it to Royal London. Particularly as he had
sight of his wifes plan throughout. Mr D was benefiting from hindsight and the errors
that had been made.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr D has had to make three complaints to Royal London. After trying to
take his TFC and PCLS, which entailed switching to a different product, he encountered
multiple issues and service failings as well as very significant delays in putting things right. I
dont really understand why the errors that had been made took as long as they did to
resolve. And Im not sure that things were always properly fixed. For example it seems the
wrong fund (the Cash Plus Fund and not the Enhanced Cash Plus Fund) was initially used to
correct Mr Ds account. So I can certainly sympathise with Mr D and I can see why hes very
unhappy with what happened and how long it took to sort things out.
That said, I understand all of Mr Ds issues have been largely resolved, aside from his claim
for compensation for lost investment growth. I say that on the basis that Royal London has
offered Mr D compensation of £2,650, made up as Ive set out above. I dont think thats
actually been paid to Mr D as he didnt accept it because he was also claiming lost 
investment growth. But Im assuming the offer remains open and that Mr D can accept it if he
wishes. All Im considering here is his complaint that, because of Royal Londons failings, he
missed out on investment growth from 31 May 2021 to 26 January 2022.
To uphold that complaint Id need to be satisfied that Mr D wouldve switched out of the
Enhanced Cash Plus Fund during that period into another fund or funds and that he was
unable to do so because of Royal Londons failings. I reach my decision about that on the
balance of probabilities  that is what I think is likely to have happened based on the
evidence Ive seen and the wider circumstances of the complaint.Having considered everything, Ive reached a different view to the investigator. First I dont
think the situation that arose meant that Mr D was precluded from giving a fund switch
instruction. As Royal London has pointed out, he couldve instructed a fund switch which
wouldve been taken into account and backdated once the issues on Mr Ds account had
been fixed. I can perhaps understand that Mr D may have been reluctant to introduce
another factor which might complicate things and perhaps even further delay his account
issues being resolved.
As Mr D will appreciate, deciding to switch funds always carries an element of risk,
particularly where the switch is from a low risk to a higher risk fund and especially during a
period of market volatility. I think if Mr D had made a settled decision that he was losing out
because his fund was held in Enhanced Cash Plus Fund he shouldve communicated that
clearly to Royal London and said that he wanted to switch to a named fund(s) so that could
be taken into account once the ongoing account corrections had been finalised.
The investigator relied on Mr Ds letter of 24 April 2021 and his email of 31 May 2021. But I
dont think they demonstrate a settled decision to switch funds. Although the Governed
Portfolios are mentioned, there are nine in total. Mr D had been invested in GP 8 but hed
switched out of that Fund over eighteen months earlier. Mr D didnt specify which Governed
Portfolio(s) he wanted to switch into. It would seem he hadnt reached any firm decision to
switch.
Thats consistent with Mr Ds email of 7 July 2021. He expressly states that he was holding
off making any switch. So hed been thinking about whether he should invest his fund
differently but hed decided against any switch. Mr D did say that was because of his
continuing dissatisfaction with Royal London. But the fact remains that Mr D had decided
against making any switches. He was discussing the issues that had arisen with his financial
adviser and so it would seem that his decision not to go ahead with any fund switch was
made with the benefit of financial advice.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr Ds position changed because of the continuing
delays. As Ive said if Mr D was concerned by the continuing delay and that he was losing
out on investment growth I think he shouldve communicated that unequivocally to Royal
London and nominated the Fund(s) he wanted to switch into.
Ive considered all Mr D has said about what prompted his switch to the Enhanced Cash
Plus Fund. It may have been that up until then Mr D was happy to pursue an adventurous
investment strategy but hes referred to global events which meant he wanted to preserve
the growth his fund had achieved. I dont think much has changed. Various global economic
factors, coupled with the pandemic, have meant that investment conditions have remained
difficult and volatile and are likely to have impacted on any decision to reinvest. Mr D has
said he wanted to achieve growth on his residual fund until his 60th birthday (in 2025) but I
think hed still have paid attention to prevailing investment conditions. Hed be dependent on
his residual fund for income in retirement and the continuing uncertain may have made him
wary of reinvesting.
Once the transfer to the new provider had been completed Mr Ds fund wasnt reinvested in
line with an adventurous attitude to risk. Again Mr D has explained why hed remained in a
cash based fund pending the setting up his SSAS. But I dont really see why, if Mr D was
concerned about having lost out on investment growth and considered economic conditions
were favourable, he didnt reinvest in the interim. Again hes pointed to continuing uncertain
global economic conditions which meant retaining funds in cash was necessary to protect
capital awaiting investment. I think that tends to suggest that the uncertain investment
conditions which have prevailed throughout wouldve made a decision to reinvest unlikely.It may be that with hindsight switching wouldve paid off but Im not looking at things with the
benefit of hindsight. I need to decide on the balance of probabilities what Mr D is likely to
have done in 2021. Im not convinced that hed made a settled decision to reinvest and he
didnt give a clear investment instruction to Royal London.
Lastly, Id just mention Royal Londons point about the investigator having recommended the
redress that Mr D suggested. As Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about lost investment
growth, any redress for that falls away. I dont think, because the investigator was prepared
to adopt Mr Ds suggested redress, that indicates were not impartial. On our complaint form
we ask the complainant to say how theyd like the business to put things right for them. If we
think that the redress suggested by the consumer is fair and reasonable then well ask the
business to pay it. Thats much the same as where a business has accepted it was at fault
and has taken steps to compensate the consumer. If we think what the business has done is
fair and reasonable then well usually say the business doesnt need to do anything more.
Thats really the situation here. I dont agree that Mr D should be compensated for lost
investment growth and I think what Royal London has offered  £2,650  is fair and
reasonable.
Royal London accepted my provisional decision and didnt want to add anything. Mr D didnt 
agree that the lost income offer of £135.52 was fair or reasonable. Amongst other things, he 
said:  
Some statements were incorrect and/or had been given disproportionate weight. His 
stated position had never been that he was invested in anything other than the 
Enhanced Cash Plus Fund at the relevant time. 
Hes a non advised investor. He had an adviser in place but for administration 
purposes only. So saying he chose not to go ahead with any fund switch was with the 
benefit of financial advice was incorrect and the adviser could confirm that. 
Historically hed switched funds on line but that functionality wasnt available to him. 
Every time he was told things had been corrected, his own review identified further or 
continuing errors. That effectively removed the opportunity to select a Governed 
Portfolio to meet his stated investment strategy. 
That situation persisted for almost all of the nine months it took Royal London to 
correct and finally transfer his fund to his new SIPP provider. On almost every call 
with Royal London hed requested urgency as he was being kept out of the market. 
Mr D referred to a call on or around 21 November 2021 where the complaint handler 
asked Mr D to advise as to the fund selection he wished to make and expressed 
surprise he hadnt been asked to do that earlier. Mr D chose GP 8. It wasnt until he 
got the final complaint resolution email that he realised the offer of redress was 
limited to the date from when hed advised Royal London hed be transferring and to 
the date the transfer took place and didnt include the six months or so prior to that. 
The timeline in question was 31 May 2021 to 26 January 2022. What hed decided to 
do after hed transferred away from Royal London wasnt relevant. His decision at 
that specific time was based on what was happening in the economy then. In 
particular, inflationary pressure was becoming obvious which would lead to interest 
rate rises and meant holding in cash had again become a sensible strategy. 
Although he accepted there had to be some assessment on the balance of 
probabilities, the facts didnt support the conclusion reached. It was a matter of 
record that hed said in his letter of 31 May 2021 hed be investing in a Governed 
Portfolio. Hed repeatedly told Royal London that cash funds no longer suited his 
investment strategy and the delays were keeping him out of the market. And, when 
he was given an opportunity in November 2021 to select a fund, he chose GP 8. 
Hed said, in his email of 7 July 2021, that hed been unable to invest his residual fund for growth. Royal London, when replying, shouldve given him the opportunity to 
select a fund and as was offered some four months later. 
After his withdrawals of TFC and PCLS he shouldve been left with a fund of 
£937,500 to invest freely via on line access (which was one of the main reasons 
Royal London was selected in the first place). 
Mr D also provided a copy of a document he completed for his new SIPP provider on 23 
December 2021. Section 3 of the form asked about Mr Ds future investment strategy and 
how he intended to invest his SIPP. He indicated it would be invested 50% in stocks and 
shares and 50% in cash  the latter being reserved for the new SSAS Mr D was looking to 
set up for secured lending and which hes since put in place. It had then taken Royal London 
another month to transfer his fund by which time hed decided, due to market conditions at 
the time, to remain in cash. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering Mr Ds complaint again, Ive paid particular attention to what hes said about 
why he doesnt agree with my provisional decision. 
Mr D has said that his stated position has never been other than that he was in the 
Enhanced Cash Plus Fund at the relevant time. I agree. I was just noting that the 
investigator had made an error in saying that Mr D had remained in GP 8. My decision is 
based on Mr Ds correctly stated position  that he was in the Enhanced Cash Plus Fund 
when he decided to take his TFC and PCLS. 
I said, in my provisional decision, it seemed any decision not to go ahead with any fund 
switch(s) was made with the benefit of financial advice, which Mr D has said wasnt the case. 
I accept that. But the fact remains, in his email of 7 July 2021, Mr D expressly stated he was 
holding off making any fund switch(s). I dont think it matters whether hed reached that 
decision on his own or with the benefit of financial advice. Or if his decision was, in part, due 
to dissatisfaction with Royal London. The point is, for whatever reason, he didnt want to 
switch funds at that stage. 
Mr D has said the lack of online access (his preferred method of switching funds) effectively 
removed his ability to select an appropriate fund and that his repeated requests for urgency 
werent met. But Mr D knew he couldnt switch funds on line. He also knew he was in the 
Enhanced Cash Plus Fund (where hed been invested since September 2019 and had been 
apparently happy with that Fund). He was aware of the time it was taking to correct the 
errors that had been made. If, taking into account investment conditions generally (and 
which, as Ive noted, were uncertain) and his objectives, he was concerned he was missing 
out on investment growth, he couldve given a clear and definite switch instruction to Royal 
London which wouldve been backdated. 
Mr D has said the facts dont support the conclusions Ive reached. Although hes pointed to 
what he said in his letter of 24 April 2021, his later email sent on 7 July 2021 records that by 
then hed decided against making any switch. Mr D has said, in response to his email, Royal 
London shouldve requested details of the fund(s) he wanted to switch into. But Mr D said in 
his email hed researched things and didnt want to switch at that time. I dont see it wouldve 
been logical for Royal London to ask Mr D for switch instructions then.  
Mr D has pointed to what happened in November 2021 when Royal London got in touch 
about his complaint and asked him to nominate a fund. It seems Mr D was hopeful then that Royal London would offer redress on the basis hed switched funds (to GP 8) during the 
period he was waiting for Royal London to correct the errors made. But Royal London said it 
couldnt meet Mr Ds request for compensation for the lack of growth his SIPP had achieved 
when thered been no clear instruction from Mr D to switch to a specific fund. That was 
disappointing for Mr D but I dont think Royal London did anything other than indicate it 
would consider the claim.  
Ive considered the complaint from a slightly wider perspective  not just if Mr D did nominate 
a fund switch but whether, if there hadnt been problems, he wouldve done. Mr D says what 
he decided to do after the transfer went ahead isnt relevant and his decision to remain in a 
cash based fund was taken in the light of the then prevailing economic conditions. But I think 
the overall picture is relevant. 
Mr D selected a cash based fund in September 2019 and again after hed transferred at the 
end of January 2022. In effect hes saying there was a window, from the end of May 2021 
until when he transferred, when hed have been invested for growth. And, in his letter of 24 
April 2021, Mr D did say hed be reviewing the various Governed Portfolios and hed be 
switching away from cash. 
But, as Ive pointed out, it seems by 7 July 2021 Mr D had revised that and was holding off 
making any switch. Id need to be convinced that sometime after then hed have instructed a 
switch. Thats a relatively short window, taking into account that, when he transferred away 
from Royal London, Mr D selected a cash based fund. Although hes said his decision about 
his new SIPP was based on the then economic situation, I think the prevailing investment 
conditions had been and remained difficult throughout. 
Ive considered the document Mr D has provided and which he points to as confirmation that, 
during the period of his claim, he was looking to invest for growth. I think, if anything, it 
indicates that his investment decisions were (and understandably) subject to change, 
depending on investment conditions. Over the longer term Mr D may have been planning to 
invest for growth but that depended on market conditions generally and, when it came to 
investing his fund with his new provider, Mr D opted for a cash based fund. 
I dont disagree with Mr Ds comment that, post withdrawing his TFC and PCLS, he 
shouldve been able to invest via on line access. But the issue is what is likely to have 
happened if Royal London had dealt with things as it shouldve done and whether Mr D 
wouldve switched funds. I can understand why, given the errors and the time taken to put 
things right, he feels very let down by Royal London. But, to award compensation for lost 
investment growth, Id need to be satisfied a fund switch wouldve been requested and be 
able to say when and what fund(s) wouldve been selected. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I cant say, on balance, that wouldve been the case. So Im 
not persuaded it would be fair to say that Royal London should be required to pay redress 
for lost investment growth for the period Mr Ds pointed to. I think what Royal London has 
offered is fair and reasonable. I dont think Royal London needs to do any more. 
My final decision
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has already made an offer to pay 
£2,650 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should pay that 
sum to Mr D.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman