DRN-3966976
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Santander UK Plc closed Mrs As accounts unfairly.  
What happened
Mr A, on behalf of Mrs A, says she received blank letters from Santander about her 
accounts, as well as phone calls asking about personal details. Following this, her accounts 
were blocked. Mr A says this had also happened a year earlier, in June 2021. On that 
occasion, Santander apologised and paid Mrs A £300 compensation for their error. So, Mr 
and Mrs A expected this to be an error also. However, Santander eventually wrote to Mrs A 
providing two months notice they would close her accounts, which they did. 
Santander explained that they had previously asked Mrs A for evidence showing proof of her 
pensions and property deeds for her current property, and that this was a part of their know 
your customer checks they are required to carry out. As they did not receive these 
documents, they made the decision to provide notice of closure and eventually close her 
accounts.
Mr and Mrs A felt this was unfair and that they had not been provided adequate notice of 
exactly what Santander needed from them as part of the know your customer checks and 
that the blank letters they received were confusing. They also again highlighted that this 
issue had occurred the year before, but Santander had apologised and provided £300 
compensation. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and felt that Santander acted fairly when it asked 
Mr and Mrs A for specific evidence and then closed the accounts when they didnt receive 
this information. But they did think Santander could have been clearer in its information 
requests and that it should not have sent blank letters to Mrs A, so felt £200 compensation 
was reasonable in the circumstances. Santander eventually agreed to this. 
Mr and Mrs A did not agree with this. They felt more compensation was due but made it 
clear that compensation was not their goal and that they would be happy paying anything 
they received to charity. They maintained that it wasnt clear what they were meant to 
provide to Santander. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. I think Santander 
acted reasonably when it asked Mrs A for additional information and that it decided to close 
her accounts when it did not receive that information. I also think that Santander could have 
been clearer at times, so I agree the £200 compensation is fair recompense for any distress 
or inconvenience this caused Mrs A.
Ive firstly considered the information Mrs A was asked to provide. This was proof of her 
pensions as well as property deeds for her house to show proof of ownership. Santander 
has explained they required these to comply with their know your customer checks, which 
are a part of their due diligence as a financial institution. From everything that I have seen, I 
think Santander were acting reasonably when they asked for this information.
Santander has provided a copy of a telephone call from June 2021 which occurred following 
the original blocks placed on Mrs As accounts. In the call it was explained that the blocks 
had been temporarily lifted as Mr A had confirmed he would send the information in that was 
requested. In this telephone call, it was made clear that Santander required proof of Mrs As 
pensions as well as the property deeds. In the call, Mr A was resistant to the idea of 
providing the property deed as he felt Santander should obtain this themselves through the 
land registry. And he felt it was unnecessary to provide proof of Mrs As pensions. 
Listening to this phone call, I think it was made clear to Mr and Mrs A what information was 
required from them. And the consequences of not receiving this information was also clearly 
set out during the call which was that the account would again be blocked and could be 
closed. It is unclear what followed as Santander did not receive the information it requested 
and yet Mrs As accounts were not blocked again until the following year. Santander has 
said it changed its policy briefly on blocking accounts but has not provided evidence of this. 
However, I dont think Mrs A has been disadvantaged by this delay, so I dont think 
Santander needs to take any action to remedy this. 
I can see that in early February 2022 Santander sent Mr and Mrs A a letter which said that 
while they did receive some information from Mr and Mrs A in June 2021, this did not include 
the proof of pension or property deeds. And I can see Santander sent a further letter in 
March 2022 in which they again set out that they required the information mentioned above. 
Because of this, I think Santander gave Mrs A fair warning of exactly what they required. 
And I therefore think it was reasonable that they chose to close Mrs As accounts when they 
did not receive this information. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account and these set out that Santander may 
close the account without providing a reason as long as they give notice. Ive reviewed the 
terms and conditions and Im satisfied that Santander closed Mrs As accounts in line with 
them, and that they provided reasonable notice when they did so. I think they followed the 
correct process and I cant see they have made an error in the circumstances. 
I can see that Santander did send Mrs A a number of blank letters. Santander has pointed 
out that these did contain a contact number on them which Mrs A could have called to find 
out more.  But ultimately, I think these letters were sent in error and that similar blank letters 
had been sent the previous year, so Santander were aware of this issue. And I dont think it 
would have been obvious to Mrs A that she should call the number on the letter when she 
received these letters. I think this has caused confusion and has caused some distrust in 
Santander from Mrs A, which is understandable. On balance, I think the £200 compensation 
previously recommended is fair and is in line with what I would have recommended in the 
circumstances. 
Overall, Im satisfied that while some errors were made, what Santander has now agreed to 
do is an appropriate way to resolve this complaint, so I wont be asking it to do anything 
more. My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint in part. I now instruct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and 
Mrs A £200 compensation if it has not done so already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman