DRN-3228632
The complaint
The estate of Ms T is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont honour the balance showing as 
still outstanding in an old passbook of the late Ms T that was found as part of her estate.
What happened
The estate of Ms T discovered an old Lloyds account passbook in the name of the late Ms T 
which still showed a balance as being outstanding. The estate of Ms T approached Lloyds 
about this balance but was told by Lloyds that the account in question had been closed in 
1999. The estate of Ms T disputed Lloyds position and maintained that any account closure 
would have been recorded in the account passbook, so they raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at this complaint, but they confirmed that the account in question had been 
closed in 1999, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. The estate of Ms T wasnt satisfied 
with Lloyds response, so it referred its complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Lloyds records did 
demonstrate that the account had been closed, and they felt that there were several possible 
reasons why the passbook that had been found didnt record the account closure. So, they 
didnt uphold the complaint.
The estate of Ms T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how The estate of Ms T might feel that the fact that the found account 
passbook shows a balance remaining outstanding in the account, and doesnt have any 
record of that balance being withdrawn or of the account being closed or amalgamated, 
means that the balance showing in the passbook should be considered as remaining 
outstanding and should therefore be honoured by Lloyds.
But Lloyds records confirm that the account in question was closed in 1999, with the balance 
of the account at that time being transferred to a different Lloyds account in the late Ms Ts 
name, which was itself closed several years later with an account balance at that time that 
was significantly lower. 
It also should be noted that there can be many reasons why the found passbook wasnt 
updated to show this, including that the passbook wasnt available to record the account 
closure or that the maintenance and administration of the account in question changed 
during the lifetime of the account such that the use of the passbook was no longer required. 
Indeed, given the mass digitisation of the financial sector that has occurred in recent 
decades, this latter possibility seems particularly plausible and reasonable.
It must be noted at this point that this service isnt a Court of Law and doesnt act as one. 
Instead, as an informal dispute resolution service, our remit is to impartially assess whether 
a fair outcome can be considered to have occurred or not. And considering the estate of    
Ms Ts complaint from this standpoint, I dont feel that it can be stated with any reasonable 
conviction that an unfair outcome has occurred here.  
This is because not only do Lloyds have records which confirm that the account in question 
was closed, but also because there are reasonable explanations as to why the found 
passbook might not have a record of that account closure, as explained above.
Additionally, I feel that any expectation for Lloyds to provide further information or evidence 
on this matter is prejudiced against by the passing of time in this instance. And this is 
because the closure of the account is recorded as having taken place in 1999, which is 
sufficiently long ago that it wouldnt be expected that Lloyds would have retained any more 
detailed records they may have had which might have provided further insight into what 
happened to the balance of the account as shown in the old passbook.
Ultimately, Im satisfied here that the records of the account closure in 1999 that Lloyds do 
retain here provide sufficient evidence of the fate of this account  which appears to be that 
the balance of the account was transferred to a different account which was then used by 
the late Ms T  and I dont feel that the existence of the found passbook provides compelling 
reason to doubt Lloyds records here, given the plausible explanations available as to why 
the passbook wasnt updated to show the account closure, as previously explained.
All of which means that I dont feel that I can reasonably or fairly conclude that Lloyds have 
acted unfairly by taking the position on this matter that they have, and it follows from this that 
I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action at this 
time.
I realise this wont be the outcome the estate of Ms T was wanting, but I trust it will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms T 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman