DRN-2834700
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds settlement of their travel insurance 
claim for cutting short their holiday. My references to Aviva include its agents.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have travel insurance though a bank account, Aviva is the insurer.
On 14 March 2020 Mr and Mrs C went to France for a skiing holiday and were due to return 
on 21 March 2020. On the evening of 14 March the French Government ordered all non 
essential public places to be closed due to Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs C cut short their holiday due to the disruption and their concerns about getting 
home. They initially rescheduled their return flight for 19 March, which they say was the 
earliest at the time. Later that day, having heard airlines were putting on additional flights to 
repatriate UK travellers, they were able to reschedule their flights a second time to return on 
16 March. They claimed for a full refund of their holiday costs which included their hotel, car 
hire, outward flight costs and the costs of the new flights.
Aviva made a partial settlement of the claim, paying £472.96. It said under the policy terms 
and on a goodwill basis it had paid for the new flight costs and initially the unused portion of 
Mr and Mrs Cs accommodation costs from 17 March 2020 which is when the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. Aviva said Mr 
and Mrs C should recover the unused car costs from the car hire provider as the provider 
said it would refund.
Mr and Mrs C complained to us. They said the ski resort and all but one shop were closed 
from 15 March so they didnt have any holiday. They wanted Aviva to pay the remaining 
costs, about £370. They also said Aviva gave very poor customer service as when abroad 
Mr C tried to contact Aviva for advice but was cut off twice after several hours on the phone 
on hold, which was very stressful. And when they complained in April 2020 about the partial 
settlement they were told a manager from Aviva would call within three days but they had no 
call and just received its email in June 2020 not upholding the complaint.
During our investigation Aviva said:
it had reviewed its position on ski resort closure claims and now on a goodwill basis 
covered costs for all the unused non recoverable pre-booked travel and 
accommodation costs, not just from 17 March 2020. It had already paid the additional 
£14.37 to Mr and Mrs C 
it had looked into service as a separate complaint and paid £100 compensation to 
Mr and Mrs C for their distress and inconvenience at not being able to contact it 
when they phoned from abroad
it accepted it had used two different monetary exhange rates in its settlement  
calculations so there was a shortfall of £23.21 in Mr and Mrs Cs favour which it 
offered to pay.
Our investigator said Avivas partial settlement of the claim and its offer to pay Mr and Mrs C 
the additional £23.21 was fair.
Mr and Mrs C disagree and want an ombudsmans decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Avivas new settlement offer is fair and reasonable, and I think it is. 
I also think its payment of £100 compensation for Mr and Mrs Cs distress and 
inconvenience due to its service was reasonable. Ill explain why.
The policy says that if Mr and Mrs C have to unavoidably cut short their trip due to listed 
insured events Aviva will cover:
non recoverable costs that each insured person has paid, or legally has to pay for 
their own unused personal travel and/or accommodation. This also includes the cost 
of pre-paid excursions; and/or 
additional travel costs (if you cannot use your return ticket), and/or accommodation 
costs (of a similar standard you had booked for your trip) necessary to allow you to 
come home early.
One of the listed insured events is if:
a Foreign and Commonwealth Office advisory notice is in place advising against all 
travel or all but essential travel to your destination or, the FCO are advising British 
citizens to leave the area in which you are staying.
Mr and Mrs C decided to cut short their holiday following the French Governments directive,  
which isnt an insured event under the policy. They returned home before the FCO gave the 
advice on 17 March against all but essential travel abroad and the later advice that British 
travellers should return home. So under the strict policy terms their claim wasnt covered.
However, Aviva acted over and above the policy terms and fairly and reasonably in 
ultimately paying for unused accommodation costs from the date Mr and Mrs C cut short 
their holiday, 16 March 2020.
I understand why Mr and Mrs C feel they didnt have a holiday. But the policy is clear that it 
will cover non recoverable unused accommodation and travel costs. Theres no cover for 
loss of enjoyment of a holiday. The terms in the policy about this matter are standard terms 
in most, if not all, travel insurance policies. I cant reasonably say that Aviva should pay for 
the days Mr and Mrs C stayed at the hotel or the costs of their outward flight as those are 
used costs.
Ive seen correspondence from Mr C that the car hire provider calculated it needed to make 
some payment to Mr and Mrs C as they returned the car early. As the car hire provider 
accepted it needed to pay some refund to Mr and Mrs C those costs dont appear to be non 
recoverable costs and the policy only covers non recoverable costs. If Mr and Mrs C still 
havent been paid by the provider they will need to contact Aviva with details about steps 
theyve taken to try to recover the payment and the providers response. Aviva can then assess if there are still non recoverable unused travel costs. As Ive said, the policy doesnt 
cover the full cost of the car hire as Mr and Mrs C had use of the car for some of the days 
even if they didnt use it as planned.
On the information I have Aviva paid the full additional costs of Mr and Mrs C rearranging 
their flights home, as the policy covers and as was reasonable.
Aviva accepts there was an error in its settlement calculation around the exchange rate and  
offered to pay the additional £23.21 to Mr and Mrs C. Im satisfied it needs to pay that 
amount in addition to the settlement its already paid to Mr and Mrs C.
As Aviva offered the additional payment after Mr and Mrs C complained to us Ive upheld the 
complaint in part. 
As to Avivas service, its told us its already paid Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation for their 
distress and inconvenience in not being able to contact it by phone when they were abroad. 
I understand Mrs and Mrs C accepted the sum, but even if not I wouldnt have awarded any 
more compensation than £100.
The rules we operate under say that when a consumer complains to a business it has eight 
weeks in which to respond before the consumer can complain to us. If Aviva told Mr C it 
would call him in three days in response to his complaint but didnt call that would have been 
annoying for Mr and Mrs C. But looking at the dates of complaint and response Aviva 
responded to the complaint in a reasonable timescale.
Putting things right
Aviva must pay Mr and Mrs C £23.21 in addition to the settlement its already paid for the 
claim, as its now offered. Aviva should also add interest to the £23.21 as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs C £23.21  
in addition to the settlement its already paid for their claim, as its now offered. Interest* at 
8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of payment should be added to the 
£23.21.
*If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs C a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman