DRN-3095655
The complaint
Mr S and Ms P complain that Astrenska Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Ms P held an annual travel insurance policy which provided them with cover 
between 26 September 2019 and 25 September 2020. In December 2019, Mr S and Ms P 
booked a trip to a country Ill call K. They were due to travel to K on 19 March 2020 and 
return to the UK on 25 March 2020. 
However, in February 2020, Mr S called Astrenska to check whether hed be able to claim 
for cancellation of the trip, as he had concerns about whether or not it was safe to travel 
given Covid-19. He was initially told that he wouldnt be able to claim if the Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to K, but Astrenska later clarified that this information was incorrect. 
Mr S and Ms P made a claim on 26 February 2020. In the claims submission, Mr S stated 
that due to his employment, if he travelled to K, he later ran the risk of passing on Covid-19 
at work. Mr S and Ms P say they didnt cancel their flights at this point, although theyd been 
able to cancel their accommodation and recover the costs.
Subsequently, on 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all but essential travel abroad. 
Mr S and Ms Ps airline cancelled one of their flights and so Mr S and Ms P opted to cancel 
their remaining flights. They say they were unable to recover their flight costs as theyd 
bought them through a third-party company. They claimed therefore for the cost of their 
cancelled flights.
Astrenska turned down Mr S and Ms Ps claim. It said at the point theyd decided to cancel 
the trip, thered been no FCDO travel advice in place against travelling to K. And it told Mr S 
and Ms P that they should attempt to recover their flight costs from their airline. It did 
acknowledge though that its first call handler had given Mr S incorrect information about the 
policy cover.
Mr S and Ms P were unhappy with Astrenkas decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They were also unhappy with the misinformation theyd been given.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S and Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
at the time it appeared Mr S and Ms P had decided to cancel their trip, thered been no 
FCDO advice against travel to their destination city in K. So he didnt think the claim was 
covered. And he also concluded that Mr S and Ms P hadnt shown theyd exhausted all 
reasonable avenues to obtain a refund of their flight costs from their airline.
Mr S and Ms P disagreed. In summary, they said that they hadnt cancelled the holiday 
because of concerns about Mr S profession  theyd cancelled the trip because the airline 
had cancelled one of their flights, which had left them in an impossible position. The airline 
had refused to offer Mr S a refund because it said he wasnt its customer and the company 
hed booked through was no longer in business. They questioned what else they could have 
done. They felt the information Astrenska had provided was borderline criminal and 
designed to prevent policyholders from making a claim.  
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S and Ms P, I think it was fair for Astrenska 
to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
policy terms and the circumstances of Mr S and Ms Ps claim to decide whether Astrenska 
treated them fairly.
Was it fair for Astrenska to turn down the claim?
Ive first turned to the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr S and Ms 
Ps contract with Astrenska. As Mr S and Ms P didnt travel on their trip, I think it was 
appropriate for Astrenska to consider the claim under the cancellation section of the policy. 
This sets out the listed, insured events Astrenska covers if a policyholder needs to cancel 
their trip and Ive set these out below:
The death or disablement by bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of:
a. you; or
b. an immediate relative of yours, or
c. a travelling companion; or
d. any person you are intending to travel to
or stay with; or
e. a close business associate of yours; or
2. you or a travelling companion discovering that you/they are pregnant after the date of 
issue of this policy or the date the trip was booked (whichever was the later), if the booked
return date is within 12 weeks (16 weeks for a multiple birth) of the expected date of delivery,
or complications of pregnancy;
3. you or a travelling companion being called for jury service or as a witness (but not as an
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend court)
in a court of law;
4. you being made redundant and you qualify for redundancy payment under the current
legislation;
5. your home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable 
(including if your presence is required by the policy in connection with such events), up to 7 
days before the commencement of your trip;
6. your passport, or the passport of your travelling companion being stolen during the
seven days before your departure date;7. a government directive prohibiting all travel to the country or area you were planning
to visit, as a result of a natural disaster (e.g. earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane or epidemic);
8. you or a travelling companion are a member of the Armed Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or
Ambulance Services and you have to stay in your country of residence because your leave
is unexpectedly withdrawn.
Its clear that this policy does cover cancellation in the event that the FCDO advises against 
travel to a policyholders destination. However, in this case, it doesnt appear that Mr S and 
Ms P cancelled their trip to K because the FCDO had advised against travel to that 
destination. I say that first because Ive listened to the call Mr S had with Astrenska broadly a 
month before he was due to travel. During that call, he referred to having concerns about 
Covid-19. 
Ive also seen the online claims submission Mr S completed. This states that the incident 
date (cancellation) was 26 February 2020. In summary, Mr S said he had concerns about 
travelling to K, given the nature of his employment and the risk of passing on Covid-19 to 
vulnerable people during the course of his work. He said that hed been able to recover the 
accommodation costs, but that the flight costs remained outstanding. 
Based on the fact that Mr S and Ms P told Astrenska theyd already been able to recover 
their accommodation costs at the point this submission was made, I think it was reasonable 
for Astrenska to conclude that the trip had been cancelled on or around 26 February 2020. 
At this point, the FCDO was not advising against all or all but essential travel to K. While it 
was advising against travel to two regions within K, neither of these were the city Mr S and 
Ms P were due to travel to. And so I dont think it was unreasonable for Astrenska to 
conclude that the claim didnt fall within the scope of cancellation cover. Instead, given the 
evidence which was presented to it, I think it was reasonable for Astrenska to decide that Mr 
S and Ms P hadnt wanted to travel, rather than being prevented from doing so because of 
FCDO advice. A policyholder not wanting to travel is specifically excluded by the policy 
terms.
I appreciate Mr S and Ms P say that they didnt cancel their flights until after one flight had 
already been cancelled by their airline. I accept what theyve said on this point, although as 
Ive set out above, I think based on the evidence it had, it was fair for Astrenska to conclude 
that the trip had been cancelled by 26 February 2020. As Ive said this would mean that the 
claim wasnt covered. 
But even if this were not the case, I still dont think it would be unfair for Astrenska to decline 
to settle their flight costs. Thats because the policy terms specifically exclude any costs 
recoverable from another source. As both Astrenska and the investigator explained, where 
an airline cancels a flight, it some circumstances, EU regulations mean that it must refund 
the costs of that flight to its customer.
In this case, Mr S and Ms P say that their airline has refused to refund their flight costs 
because they booked it through a third party. However, I havent seen any documentary 
evidence which shows who Mr S and Ms P contacted at the airline; any response which 
shows it declined to refund their costs and why or any evidence that the third party they say 
they booked the trip through no longer exists. So Im not persuaded theyve shown theyve 
taken reasonable steps to recover their flight costs. 
Overall, I find it was fair for Astrenska to turn down Mr S and Ms Ps claim.
The misinformation Astrenska gave Mr SAs Ive explained above, I listened to the call between Mr S and Astrenskas call handler. 
Theres no doubt that the first call handler (who I understand worked in the sales team) 
wrongly told Mr S that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO advised against 
travel to a destination. So I can entirely understand why he was concerned when the second 
call handler informed him that there would be cover in these circumstances.
However, in my view, the first call handler didnt deliberately seek to mislead Mr S. While 
they made an error, it didnt prevent Mr S from speaking to the claims team or indeed, 
registering a claim. So I dont think I could reasonably find that hes lost out as a result of any 
misinformation the initial call handler gave him. And I note that in its final response to Mr S 
complaint, Astrenska offered its sincere apologies for the distress and inconvenience 
caused as a result of the misinformation Mr S had been given. I think this was a reasonable 
response from Astrenska. Id add too that later in the call, the second call handler did provide 
accurate information about what the policy covered.
On this basis then, Im satisfied that Astrenskas apology was sufficient to acknowledge its 
mistake and I dont find that it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman