DRN-4065543
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about I Go 4 Ltd referring them to an Accident Management 
Company (AMC).
IGO4 had an agent acting on its behalf for the referral. For simplicity Ive referred to the 
agents actions as being those of IGO4. 
What happened
Mrs H is a named driver on her husband, Mr Hs, motor insurance policy. In April 2021, when 
Mrs H was driving the vehicle, it was damaged in a collision with a third-party. She called the 
policys broker, IGO4, to register a claim. 
IGO4 provided two options. A claim could be pursued through Mr Hs own motor insurer. 
Alternatively an AMC could be used. The latter option was selected. This meant the claim 
wouldnt be dealt with by Mr Hs insurance policy. Instead the AMC would deal with repairs, 
arrange a hire car and attempt to recover costs from the third-party insurer (TPI)  through a 
credit hire/repair agreement.  
In March 2022 Mrs H complained to IGO4. She said she hadnt been initially made aware 
that she had been referred to an AMC. She complained Mr H was now being pursued for the 
£31,000 hire car cost by the AMC. She said if she had known this could happen, she 
wouldnt have continued with the referral call. Mrs H was also unhappy that correspondence 
had been sent to Mr H despite him not being involved in the collision. In addition she felt 
IGO4s refund calculation, after the policy was cancelled, was unfair.
In June 2022 IGO4s agent responded to the complaint. It said Mrs H was presented with 
both options and she choose to pursue the claim though the AMC. It didnt accept it had 
failed to provide adequate information about the options. It explained the AMC had provided 
her with additional information about its service. It added that correspondence was sent to 
Mr H, despite him not being involved in the incident, as he is the main policyholder. 
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied so came to this service. 
Our investigator believed IGO4 failed to provide Mr and Mrs H with clear, fair and not 
misleading information during the AMC referral process.  She felt if it had they probably 
would have used their own insurance policy for the claim  and so wouldnt have 
experienced the difficulties and distress associated with the hire car costs. The investigator 
recommended IGO4 pay Mr and Mr H £400 to compensate for the impact of that. However, 
she felt it had fairly administered the premium refund. 
Mr and Mrs H accepted that outcome. However, as IGO4 didnt the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs H and IGO4 provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be 
key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure them that I have considered 
everything provided.
Ive listened to the notification of loss call Mrs H made to IGO4. Ive considered if she was 
provided with the information Id expect in the circumstances. 
If a consumer contacts their broker to claim following an accident, that broker should
provide them with information thats fair, clear, and not misleading  to enable them to make 
an informed decision about how they want to proceed. This should include discussing the 
pros and cons of claiming on their policy over using an AMC.
IGO4 set out a few potential downsides of Mrs H claiming through Mr Hs own policy. These 
included the need to pay a policy excess  although it did explain that this could potentially 
be claimed back. It also explained a claim could affect the policy until the matter was 
resolved. 
However, it didnt explain any of the potential benefits of using Mr Hs policy. For example in 
its complaint response letter IG04 acknowledges claiming through Mr Hs policy is the 
quicker process. But it didnt provide that information in the call. Neither did it explain that 
Mr Hs policy provides, whilst the vehicle is with the insurers repairers, at least a small 
hatchback courtesy car.   
IGO4 described the AMC service as its supplier who acts on Mrs Hs behalf by claiming 
directly form the third-partys insurer. It said this will come at no cost to her, that it will sort 
out repairs to the vehicle and provide a hire vehicle.  
However, it didnt provide the potential downsides of the option. A broker should make the 
consumer aware that entering into an AMC agreement means stepping outside a regulated 
contract of insurance. This means theyre likely to lose the option to complain to us if things 
go wrong. IGO4 didnt explain this.  
It should also be explained that if the third-party contests liability that the consumer is 
potentially liable for any unrecoverable credit hire costs and that they would need to enter 
into an unregulated credit agreement for these. IGO4 didnt explain this either. 
The broker should also act in the best interests of their customer  so before discussing 
credit hire/repair, the broker should investigate to see if these services are suitable for the 
consumer  for example, by checking the accident is likely non-fault and that the consumer 
has a need for a hire car. 
There was a discussion of the circumstances of the accident  and its fair to say it seemed 
likely to be non-fault. However, the discussion of Mrs Hs need for a hire car  one of the key 
benefits of using an AMC  wasnt balanced. 
Earlier in the call IGO4, before introducing the idea of using an AMC, had raised the 
possibility of a hire car. When asked where the damaged cars condition left her, Mrs H 
explained Mr H had another vehicle that can be used. She didnt express a significant need 
for two cars to be available to the household. IGO4 asked about what happens when Mr H 
is about? It asked does he drive one vehicle and she the other. Mrs H denied this, saying 
she usually drops him at the station for his commute to work. IGO4 responded by promoting 
the flexibility two cars could provide. IGO4 went on to say it was looking to sort out a hire vehicle at no cost to Mrs H. 
Unsurprisingly she, not having been informed she may end up liable for its costs or that 
Mr Hs policy might provide a courtesy car anyway, responded positively to this suggestion. 
For the reasons set out above, I agree with our investigator that IGO4 failed to provide clear, 
fair and not misleading information about Mrs Hs options. It focused on the negatives of 
claiming through Mr Hs policy and the positives of using the services of the AMC. 
If a broker doesnt explain a consumers options properly, this service will try to put the 
consumer in the position they would have been in, had things been explained in a clear and 
balanced way. 
So Ive considered what likely would have happened if IGO4 had explained the options in a 
clear and balanced way. In that event Mrs H would have been told of the following. Under 
Mr Hs policy a small hatchback (as a minimum) courtesy car would be provided whilst the 
familys car was in for repairs. She would have been told, with the AMC option, she or Mr H 
may find themselves liable for any hire car costs the AMC was unable to recover from the 
third-party insurer. 
Finally there would have been a more balanced discussion of the familys need for a second 
car  and less promotion of the flexibility two cars would give. Having listened to Mrs H 
discuss the familys circumstances Im persuaded they could have managed with a smaller 
car (as provided by Mr Hs policy). The familys car was eventually declared a total loss, so 
they may not have been provided a car under Mr Hs policy, but that wasnt known at the 
time of the referral decision.
  
Considering the familys circumstances and the risk of being liable for unrecovered hire 
costs, I think its most likely Mrs H wouldnt have chosen the AMC option. Instead she would 
have opted for claiming through Mr Hs policy. 
IGO4s pointed out that Mr and Mrs H signed an AMC form to declare a need for a 
replacement car. I havent said there wasnt any need. Instead Ive found, had Mrs H been 
put in the position to make an informed decision, she probably wouldnt have chosen the 
AMC option. So there wouldnt have been a referral to the AMC. 
So Ive gone on to consider what would have happened differently without that referral to the 
AMC. The third-party insurer offered Mrs H a hire car. So she may have had use of one 
without the AMC referral anyway. In addition it seems they likely they would have received 
the total loss settlement for their vehicle much sooner than they did.  
The main difference would have been an absence of the distress Mr and Mrs H experienced 
regarding the £31,000 hire costs. Mr H was threatened with becoming liable for these. Mrs H 
has described Mr H as being harassed by the legal firm, acting for the AMC, with text 
messages, letters and emails. Shes also reported how it made a doorstep visit to their 
home. Mrs H has explained how all this caused the family significant distress and 
inconvenience  including negative effects on her health and relationship with Mr H.  
I accept IGO4 isnt responsible for the actions of the AMC  and that Mr and Mrs H ultimately 
werent found to be liable for the hire costs. But it is responsible for a poor referral to the 
AMC. Without that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have experienced the significant distress and 
inconvenience they have reported. So I agree with the investigator that it fair and reasonable 
for it to pay them £400 compensation. This recognises the impact of the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience they have experienced. Mrs H also complained about IGO4s premium refund calculations after the policy was 
cancelled. Our investigator was satisfied these had been made fairly and correctly. Mrs H 
seems to have accepted this. As a result I havent considered the issue in detail here. But I 
agree with the investigator that IGO4 acted fairly when calculating the refund due and 
applying fees.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require I Go 4 Ltd to pay Mr and Mrs H £400 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman