DRN-3518727
The complaint
The estate of Mrs M, represented in this complaint by her two daughters, Ms B and Ms M, 
has complained that Standard Life Assurance Limited stopped paying annuity payments to 
Mrs M when correspondence was returned to it, resulting in loss of income, loss of interest 
on savings and unnecessary distress and anxiety caused to Ms B and Ms M.
What happened
Upon the death of Mr M in September 2014, payments then began to Mrs M under the terms 
of Mr Ms joint life annuity. Several calls occurred between September and November 2014, 
during which Standard Life was informed of Mr Ms death (12 September 2014), Ms M 
enquired of Standard Life as to the annuity Mrs M would receive in the future, and it was 
mentioned that a Power of Attorney (POA) would be sought on Mrs Ms behalf (23 
September 2014). 
The annuity payments began in October 2014, at which point Mrs M became the 
policyholder.
In a further call on 28 November 2014, it was agreed that a letter which had been addressed 
to Mrs M about an overpayment on the annuity would be forwarded to Ms M.
On 30 December 2020, Ms M called to inform Standard Life of Mrs Ms death, but was told 
at this point that annuity payments had stopped in March 2017. The reason Standard Life 
gave for this was that several letters addressed to Mrs M had been returned and, as part of 
its working practice, it stopped paying the annuity.
Ms M complained to Standard Life in January 2021, saying that, although Standard Life had 
quoted General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) as being the reason it needed to stop 
annuity payments, this hadnt been introduced until 15 months after the last payment.
Ms M further said that Standard Life had her name and address, the solicitors name and 
address, and Mrs Ms bank details, and also hadnt received a death certificate, but had 
nevertheless not used the details to try to make contact about the returned correspondence. 
Ms M said that the non-payment had caused significant distress and worry, and that she 
expected the missing annuity payments to be made, with interest. 
Standard Life declined to uphold the complaint in a response in March 2021. It said that it 
hadnt received a POA, nor any confirmation that correspondence for Mrs M should be sent 
to an alternate address when shed moved to a care home.
Standard Life said that, under data protection requirements (rather than GDPR which wasnt 
at that point implemented), it could only discuss the plan with the policyholder, a financial 
adviser if one had been appointed, or the POA if this had been recorded and verified on its 
system.
It further said that it had tried to trace Mrs M, but had been unable to do so, and therefore, 
due to security reasons, it suspended payments until contact was again made by the 
policyholder. Once contact was made, payments could then resume and any back payments 
also made. 
Ms M replied in April 2021, saying that Standard Lifes investigation and conclusion on the 
matter  that Mrs M had died earlier than she did - was flawed. She said that the relevant 
documentation was forwarded to it and Standard Life acknowledged Mrs Ms change of 
address on 28 November 2014. 
Further, the bank payments continued to be successfully made  these would have stopped 
if Mrs M had died as the account would have been frozen - and no attempt had been made 
to obtain a death certificate, which would have been in the public domain, Ms M added. 
Ms M said that Standard Life hadnt acted in Mrs Ms best interests, and repeated that the 
matter had caused significant worry and that savings had needed to be used due to the non-
payment of the annuity since 2017.
Standard Life responded in May 2021, repeating its position that, although it had agreed to 
send Ms M a copy of the 22 September 2014 letter about the overpayment in respect of Mr 
Ms annuity so that it could be passed to the solicitor, there was no update or change to the 
correspondence address for Mrs M during the call. It reiterated that it would only be able to 
change the address upon a request from the policyholder, a financial adviser, or the POA  
and that it hadnt received any of these.
It further confirmed that it hadnt stopped the payments because it believed that Mrs M had 
died. Rather, it said it did so as correspondence had been returned as the recipient having 
gone away, and although it ran an online check, this was unsuccessful.
Dissatisfied with the response, Ms M and Ms B referred the complaint to this service in July 
2021. They added that it remained unclear as to why Standard Life had been able to forward 
a letter to Ms M in November 2014 which had been addressed to Mrs M, but had been 
unable to write to Ms M about the suspension of annuity payments in March 2017.
They also queried as to how Standard Life felt it was justified to suspend annuity payments 
on the basis of only a couple of letters having been returned to them, without any further 
investigation. It would have been straightforward, for example, to contact Mrs Ms bank, they 
added.
Legitimate interest should take precedent with the presumption that both Standard life and 
Mrs Ms interests were balanced, but in this case Mrs Ms interests werent considered. 
Further, they said, Standard Life hadnt treated Mrs M fairly, which was a basic regulatory 
requirement.
In conclusion, Ms M and Ms B requested that Standard Life be held to account for its errors 
and inconsistencies, along with what they considered to be its incomplete investigation into 
what had happened.
One of our investigators considered the matter, but didnt think that the complaint should be 
upheld, saying the following in summary:
On the basis of the call of 23 September 2014, in which Ms M was told that Standard 
Life couldnt discuss matters relating to her mothers status as beneficiary, and that 
Mrs M would need to come to the phone, Ms M would reasonably have been aware 
that certain requirements needed to be met before Standard Life could share 
information with anyone other than the policyholder.The matter of POA was only mentioned in one phone call, and not in any detail. If, as 
had been asserted by Ms M and Ms B, POA had been enacted in January 2015, it 
would have been up to them or their solicitor to notify Standard Life of this. That they 
hadnt realised that the payments had stopped until Mrs Ms death also suggested 
that Ms M and Ms B hadnt been monitoring the annuity policy in the intervening 
years.
Standard Life had informed the investigator that it wouldnt be a part of its process to 
speak to Mrs Ms bank as the bank wouldnt be able to speak or correspond with 
Standard Life due to data protection reasons. Standard Life did ask a third party to 
conduct a trace for Mrs Ms new address, but this was unsuccessful.
Although the investigator noted the point about it being possible for the bank to have 
contacted Mrs M if Standard Life had approached it, he nevertheless remained of the 
view that the primary responsibility for keeping Standard Life informed of any address 
changes would have been either the policyholder or whoever was looking after their 
affairs.
Ms M and Ms B disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
As the expert, Standard Life should have guided Ms M through the process pf 
establishing the annuity for Mrs M. But at no point did Standard Life say that a copy 
of the POA should be sent to it when Ms M mentioned it to them. To say that bringing 
Mrs M  who was suffering from advanced dementia - to the phone in order for Ms M 
to have been aware of the next steps was unreasonable.
As an annuity was a contract in which the company agreed to pay a fixed sum to an 
individual until death, Standard Life had been in breach of this contract. And if 
Standard Life had a policy to decide when to cease payments, it didnt mean that the 
policy was correct. It didnt have confirmation of Mrs Ms death, and it shouldnt have 
concluded that shed died on the basis of a couple of returned letters and a credit 
checking report  Mrs M in any case had no credit and was effectively off grid.
Standard Lifes policy for trying to trace people was inadequate for it to manage a 
vulnerable group of individuals such as Mrs M. Had she died, her bank account 
would have been closed and couldnt have received further payments.
It was unfair to transfer the blame to Ms M for not having checked Mrs Ms bank 
accounts  this deflected from Standard Lifes own responsibilities and failures to 
meet its contractual commitments.
Standard Life, according to its global code of conduct, should act with integrity, due 
skill, care and diligence, and pay due regard to the interest of its customers and treat 
them fairly. But Mrs M hadnt been treated in accordance with those values.
As agreements not been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms M and Ms B, 
Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator. Id firstly offer my sincere condolences to the family of Mrs M  and I appreciate that finding 
out the annuity payments had stopped prematurely in 2017 will have made an already 
difficult time in 2020 harder still.
But in thinking about what Ms M and Ms B have said in response to the investigators 
assessment, I dont think there were any issues in successfully establishing the annuity for 
Mrs M  this seemed to occur without any problems, including the forwarding of the letter of 
September 2014 and successful crediting of the overpayment in respect of Mr Ms annuity 
payments. So I dont think that it would have been clear to Standard Life that Ms M needed 
any more guidance with specific regard to establishing the annuity.
Standard Life has said that it was unable to change Mrs Ms address without either being 
instructed to so by Mrs M herself, a financial adviser, or the holder of a POA. And it hadnt 
received either the instruction, or the POA. Im afraid I dont agree that, by agreeing to 
forward the letter of September 2014 regarding the annuity overpayment to Mr M, it could 
reasonably be said that Standard Life had received instructions to change Mrs Ms address.
And whilst I do agree that it might have been helpful, when Ms M mentioned that theyd be 
securing a POA, for Standard Life to have informed her that this would need to be sent to it 
for it to be able to deal with either her or Ms B, I dont think its made a mistake here. Without 
wishing to apportion any blame at all, I instead think that it might reasonably have been 
concluded that if the holder of a POA wished to communicate with a provider such as 
Standard Life about the affairs of the subject of the POA, then they would need to submit the 
POA towards that end. And unfortunately, Standard Life has no record of receiving this and 
nor, in the absence of confirmation that it had been received, have I seen evidence of Ms M 
or Ms B then seeking such confirmation.
As to Standard Lifes actions in stopping the payments, my role as an ombudsman looking at 
a complaint about a regulated provider  and as identified by Ms M and Ms B - is to 
determine whether it treated Mrs M fairly by doing so. And on balance, I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably conclude that it did fail to treat Mrs M fairly. I understand why Ms M and 
Ms B think differently, but in situations where the beneficiary of an annuity cant be 
contacted, I dont think Standard Life acted unreasonably in suspending the payments.
Ms M and Ms B have said that Standard Life wasnt in a position to assume that Mrs M had 
died, to which Standard Life has said that it didnt stop the payments on this presumption. It 
said it did so on the basis that it was unable to contact the policyholder. I do think its 
arguable that its something of an arbitrary point which Standard Life has made here  it 
followed this explanation with a statement that no attempt to reclaim annuity payments would 
be made until it had been advised of the death of a policyholder. And if payments had 
previously been paid to the same bank account, there would seem to be little prospect of 
security concerns around the recipient. 
So I think the cessation of payments probably had more to do with the possibility that the 
annuitant had died rather than security concerns. In this case, Standard Life had sent Mrs M 
a P60 form and change of tax code notification letter, which it has said its legally required to 
send to customer to whom its making payments for that tax year. This is what was returned 
to it in 2017.
It's further said that, if it continues to make payments to someone who has died, they are 
deemed to be unauthorised payments, and whilst a bank account may still be open, this 
didnt necessarily indicate that the policyholder was still alive, as it could be a joint account 
or one which was unknown to the family. This does therefore further suggest that it was 
concerns over the possibility of Mrs M having died which was the reason for suspending the 
payments. But irrespective of the motive behind it stopping annuity payments, I dont think that being 
unable to contact the annuitant was necessarily an unreasonable rationale upon which to 
cease payments until contact could be re-established. 
And even if it was on the presumption that the annuitant may have died, as I think is more 
likely than not to have been the case here, the prospect of an estate needing to return 
overpayments before an account has been closed might be quite unpalatable.
But furthermore, Standard Life did try to trace Mrs M. I acknowledge that Ms M and Ms B 
consider that it should have done more, for example contacting Mrs Ms bank, but I think that 
an attempt at an address trace through other means would constitute a reasonable attempt 
to locate Mrs M.
Standard Life has clarified that it wasnt GDPR which prevented it from discussing the 
annuity with anyone other than the policyholder, their financial adviser or whoever held the 
POA, but rather the pre-existing data protection laws, and Im satisfied that this would have 
been the case. GDPR sought to strengthen data protection laws in many respects, but there 
were similar requirements which preceded this.
Overall, therefore, for the reasons given, and whilst I know this will disappoint Ms M and Ms 
B, I dont think that Standard Life has acted unfairly here. As such, I couldnt fairly or 
reasonably require Standard Life to do more than make up the missing annuity payments. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
M to accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman