DRN-3716257
The complaint
Miss B complains Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) unfairly settled a claim from a 
third-party on her motor insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Soteria involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Soteria.
What happened
In 2018 Miss B collided with a parked third-party car. As the car was unattended she left her 
contact details for the third-party. Miss B said it was her intention to settle the cost of the 
damage herself. Miss B and the third-party did not agree the way forward with the repairs.
The third-party reported the accident to Soteria who were Miss Bs insurance company. 
Soteria settled the third-party claim and recorded it as a fault claim on Miss Bs policy.
Miss B said Soteria should have discussed the claim with her first before settling the 
third-party claim and she felt the amount paid was too much. Soteria said it had tried to 
discuss the claim with Miss B, but she had refused. It said Miss B confirmed the accident 
had taken place and because she had hit the third-partys parked car, it would not be able to 
defend the claim. 
Miss B was also unhappy with the impact on her no claims discount.
As Miss B was not happy with Soteria, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and felt the claim 
was handled fairly and it was fair for Soteria to hold Miss B liable for the claim after 
considering her statement. They also thought the costs for the repairs and the hire car were 
a reasonable amount.
As Miss B is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen that Miss B said she didnt realise she had to report the accident to Soteria 
because she had planned to settle the costs of the repairs to the third-party car herself. 
However when any motor accident happens it should always be reported to the motor 
insurance company.
I looked at the policy terms and conditions and in the general conditions section it says;
3. Notification: You must report any accident or loss to Us as soon as reasonably possible. 
You must send any claim by a third party or notice of any proceedings to Us as soon as 
reasonably possible.
As Miss B and the third-party did not agree the way forward with the repairs to the damaged 
car, the third-partys representatives reported the claim to Soteria. Their allegations were 
that Miss B hit their parked car causing damage. 
Soteria said it tried to discuss the claim with Miss B on the phone. It agreed to send her all 
the details in writing and she said she would respond in writing.
Soteria supplied copies of a number of letters sent to Miss B between 1 October 2018 and 
26 November 2018 asking her to get in touch and advising it was going to settle the claim.  I 
checked the letters sent and they were correctly addressed and there is no evidence to say 
they were not sent or not received at her address.
I saw that Miss B wrote to Soteria on 27 November 2018 confirming she did hit the parked 
car.
 
After Miss B confirmed to Soteria that she had collided with the third-party car it settled the 
claim with the third-party. It said its a fact that she had hit the third-partys parked car and 
there was no involvement of the third-party driver and therefore it could not defend their 
claim. 
Miss B complains that the amount settled was too much. 
Our service cannot tell Soteria how to determine the cost of claims. It is Soterias own 
commercial decision how to do this. In this case Soteria said the repair costs were settled 
under the reduction in paper exchange (RIPE) agreement. This allows claims to be settled 
without exchanging documents such as engineers reports. They are goodwill arrangements 
between insurers where they accept each others word on the amount due.
Soteria said had Miss B reported the incident to it when it happened it mayve been able to 
mitigate costs such as car hire. However as she didnt respond to the letters it sent, it was 
unable to do this. Soteria said it reviewed the claim amounts and decided to settle based on 
the evidence provided to it.
I checked the terms and conditions of the policy and it says;  
4. Conduct of claim: Anyone claiming under this Policy must give Us any help which We 
may reasonably ask for in connection with the claim. We will be entitled to the full conduct 
and control of the defence or settlement of any claim from a third-party.
Therefore, I am satisfied Soteria settled the claim within the terms of the policy.
Miss B said she had issues with the third-partys behaviour towards her and that the police 
were involved. Although I understand that this must have been very unpleasant and 
distressing for her, this is a separate matter to this complaint. It is not our role to or within our 
power to look at this, I can only look at the evidence supplied in regard to the complaint 
about her insurance settlement.
I know Miss B will be disappointed but based on the evidence I have reviewed I dont think 
Soteria have acted unfairly. I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint and dont require Soteria to do 
anymore in this case.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman