DRN-3320893
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy with the charges that Santander UK Plc has applied to her overdraft. 
She says she was struggling financially for many years and that Santanders charges 
contributed to those difficulties.
What happened
Miss D complaint that the charges Santander applied to her account from 2014 onwards 
were unfair. Santander did not agree that it had done anything wrong, and so Miss D 
referred her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ds concerns and ultimately didnt think 
Santander had treated Miss D unfairly. Miss D disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  including the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and 
reasonably when applying overdraft charges - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Miss Ds complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided 
not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
amounts Santander charged were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the 
costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a 
commercial decision. So while I appreciate that Miss D thinks it was unfair for Santander to 
allow payments to go through when she had no funds available and to then apply charges 
for honouring those payments, this general practice isnt something that I can consider.
But Santander wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss D if it applied any 
interest, fees and charges to her account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought 
fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that she was experiencing financial difficulty. So 
what I can consider here is whether there were instances where Santander didnt treat Miss 
D fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that Santander did treat Miss D unfairly or unreasonably though. From 
November 2012 until September 2017 Miss Ds account had been a student or graduate 
account, and so she would only incur charges if she went over her arranged limit or had 
items paid or returned when there were not enough funds in her account. I can see that 
Miss D did incur some charges during this time, but in general these charges were 
occasional only, and didnt suggest a cycle of charges that she was unable to get out of. 
I acknowledge that Miss D was consistently overdrawn during this time, but given that 
she wasnt being charged for using her arranged overdraft, I wouldnt have expected 
Santander to step in here.
Once her account converted to the type of account that charges for using the arranged 
overdraft, I would expect Santander to have stepped in to offer assistance if it became 
clear that Miss D was going to be unable to manage her overdraft going forwards. But 
while I acknowledge that there was a period after the account converted where she was 
incurring regular arranged overdraft charges, as well as some charges for paid and 
returned items, Miss D was able to bring her account back into credit by March 2018, 
within around 6 months of the account being converted, and it has been well maintained 
since then. 
I accept that this doesnt mean that Miss D wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. And I 
know she feels that these charges did cause her difficulty and that she was only able to 
repay her overdraft by taking out credit with other lenders. But there isnt anything which I 
think ought to have triggered Santander to review her account in more detail or alerted 
Santander to potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Santander to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. 
So as I dont think Santander unfairly charged Miss D in circumstances where it ought to 
have realised that she may have been experiencing financial difficulty, I dont think that 
Santander needs to refund any interest, fees and charges and Im not upholding Miss Ds 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss D, but I hope shell 
understand the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman