DRN-1354376
 
The complaint
Ms A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance ("PPI") policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a credit card which Ms A 
took out in 1996. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms As case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
based on the information I have.
I've decided not to uphold Ms A's complaint. I'll explain why.
Ms A says the PPI was added to her credit card without her knowledge or consent. 
Due to the time thats passed, NatWest no longer has a copy of Ms As credit card or 
PPI application. I dont find that surprising, given how long ago she took the card out. 
And Ms As recollection of the sale isn't clear. Again, I dont find that surprising, more 
than 20 years after the event. 
 
It isn't clear how Ms A applied for the card - or even if she took out the PPI at the 
same time as taking out the card. But without stronger evidence, I can't safely 
conclude that Ms A wasn't made aware that the PPI was optional. And if Ms A took 
the PPI out after she opened the credit card account, it would have been clear to her 
that she didn't have to take the PPI in order to get the card.
 
I've also borne in mind that the monthly premiums for the PPI would have shown on 
Ms A's credit card statements. I would have expected her to check her statements, 
and to query the premiums with NatWest if she wasn't sure what they related to. I've 
seen nothing to suggest that she did so.  
Overall, I think it's more likely than not that NatWest made it clear that the poilcy was 
optional, and that Ms A decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice - but I can 
understand how she my no longer remember this, so many years after the event.
 
Ms A doesn't remember whether NatWest recommended the PPI to her. NatWest 
says the sale would have been made on a non-advised basis. And based on what we 
know about the way NatWest sold this type of policy, I think that's likely to be right. 
This means that NatWest didn't have to check that the policy was suitable for Ms A. It 
was for Ms A to decide whether to take the PPI, knowing what other means she'd 
have had of making repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her job. But 
NatWest did need to give her enough information to allow her to decide for herself 
whether the policy was right for her.
 
I accept that its possible the information NatWest gave Ms A about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But as Ive said, Im satisfied, on balance, that Ms A 
chose to take out the policy. So I think she wanted this type of cover. Based on what 
I've seen of Ms A's circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy (for example, conditions about unusual 
employment arrangements or existing medical conditions). So I think the policy could 
have been useful for her if she'd been off sick, or if she'd lost her job. And since she 
was paying for the policy monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time with no 
further cost if she decided she no longer wanted it.
 
So taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Ms A would have made a 
different decision, even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think 
shed still have taken out the policy.
 
I know Ms A feels strongly about her complaint and has put time and effort into it. Ive 
thought carefully about everything shes told us, including what she's said about having had 
a full-time job and some savings. She's also said her family could have helped her, and that 
she could have used rent from property owned by her family to make her monthly credit card 
repayments if necessary.
But the policy would have helped with Ms A's monthly credit card payments for up to 12 
months per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. I think it's likely that's 
longer than Ms A would have been entitled to full sick pay for. What's more, the policy would 
have paid out on top of any sick pay or redundancy payment she'd have been entitled to 
from her employer. So she could have used that to meet other day-to-day expenses. And 
she could have kept her savings. I acknowledge that her family might have been willing to 
help her out. But circumstances can change, and I can't be sure that they'd have been in a 
position to do so - or that she'd have been able to access rental income from family property 
- if the need had arisen. So on balance, these points dont change my decision.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman