DRN-2872584
The complaint
Mr L complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc wont reimburse money he lost 
when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr L says after completion of an application to obtain bitcoins he was approached by a firm 
providing financial services. Ill refer to the firm as R. Mr L informed R that he was an 
inexperienced investor. R assured Mr L that he would have a financial advisor who would 
guide him with his investment and teach him about the financial markets. Mr L says he was 
persuaded into thinking R was a reputable firm. Across September and October 2019, Mr L 
made several payments towards what he believed was a legitimate investment. Relevant to 
this complaint are two payments totalling £3,202.50 that were made in September 2019 
using his M&S Mastercard credit card. These payments were made to a cryptocurrency 
exchange called T.
When Mr L realised hed likely fallen victim to a scam he asked M&S to cancel the 
transactions, raise a chargeback claim and credit his account. He said he was not a party to 
the contract and no service or investment had been provided to him. He told M&S that he 
believes R is purporting to be an investment firm but are in fact a scam. For these reasons 
he doesnt think it can be said that a service was provided, or that an investment was made. 
Mr L said he was manipulated into investing into the trading platform and had been 
prevented from withdrawing the money hed invested. He also told M&S that R had provided 
his personal details to T and purchased cryptocurrency in his name without his approval.  He 
also raised points about M&S being jointly and severally liable for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
M&S explained due to the nature of the transactions there were no chargeback rights 
available under Mastercards scheme rules. And the criteria required to establish a valid 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 had not been met. Mr L complained 
to M&S. And whilst it sympathised with the situation Mr L found himself in, it maintained its 
position and said it was unable to agree with his request for a refund.
Unhappy with its response Mr L referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. In 
summary she didnt think M&S had acted unfairly when concluding Mr L didnt have a valid 
chargeback or section 75 claim. Mr L disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.  
Firstly, Im sorry to hear that Mr L has been the victim of a cruel scam. Understandably this 
has impacted him, both personally and financially. So I appreciate why he feels strongly 
about what has happened. I note he complains that R used his personal details to open an 
account and purchase cryptocurrency with T; used bullying, manipulation and scare tactics 
to draw money from investors; and believes it to have violated many regulatory rules. I know 
he would like R to be investigated and fined accordingly. But I want to be clear that my 
decision here only concerns the actions of M&S and whether it acted fairly and reasonably 
when declining Mr Ls reimbursement claim.  
Chargeback 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme. M&S are bound by the card scheme providers rules 
which in this case is Mastercard. It is Mastercard  not M&S, who will ultimately arbitrate on 
a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after 
two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are 
limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to 
second-guess Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. M&S) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Our service has clarified this matter with Mastercard directly, it explained that if a cardholder 
authorised and engaged in a transaction with the intent to participate in gambling, 
investment or similar services, then cardholder-dispute chargeback rights are restricted 
regardless of whether the activity was illegal or brand damaging. It went onto explain that 
issuers have no chargeback rights related to the use of these chips or value, unspent chips, 
or withdrawal of such value, or on any winnings, gains or losses resulting from the use of 
such chips or value. In short, Mastercard consider the purpose of the Mastercard transaction 
to load funds into the gambling or investment account and not what activities are 
subsequently done with the funds. 
However, there is limited protection for payments of this nature under the scheme if it can be 
evidenced that the merchant didnt make available on its platform funds transferred to it. But 
this was not the nature of Mr Ls claim. His claim was that hed fallen victim to a scam and 
was unable to withdraw his funds. 
I appreciate Mr L feels that both the investigator and M&S have failed to understand the crux 
of his claim  which is that he didnt receive the services hed paid for. He has argued that R 
were purporting to be an investment firm. He provides evidence of a warning that was 
published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which states that R is not allowed to 
provide financial services in the UK. He believes this supports that there was no real trading 
platform and no actual investment was ever provided to him. So R never made available his 
funds for trading purposes nor did they provide him with any guidance or education about 
the financial markets as promised. Im sympathetic to Mr Ls situation, but ultimately alleging 
that there was no real investment is saying that R was operating a scam. And this isnt 
something that the Mastercard chargeback scheme provides a dispute resolution process 
for.  
So, based on the above I dont think that M&S acted unfairly or unreasonably in reaching the 
conclusion that Mr Ls claim didnt have a reasonable prospect of succeeding and 
consequentially deciding not to raise a chargeback claim.Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Section 75 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for a breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation against a creditor as they would have against the supplier of goods or 
services. For a section 75 claim to apply there are a number of criteria that need to be met, 
one of which is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement between the parties.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ls credit card statement which shows two payments totalling 
£3,202.50. Mr L was therefore responsible for repaying the amount owed to his credit card 
provider and so he is the debtor. As Mr Ls M&S credit card was used to make these 
payments, M&S was the creditor. And from everything Ive seen it is clear R was the 
supplier. However, the payments Mr L disputes werent made to R  they were made to T. 
For Mr Ls claim to be covered under the joint liability provision of the Act I would need to 
see evidence that would satisfy me that T were a party to the contract between Mr L and R. 
There could still be a DCS agreement in place if there was a pre-existing arrangement 
between T and R and that they were linked such that they were associates as defined by 
section 184 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA).
I appreciate Mr L has shared an email from R providing him with login details for T, which he 
strongly believes establishes and evidences a link between T and R. And whilst I understand 
this may show that T and R were involved in some way, it isnt enough for me to conclude 
that the two firms were linked as associates as required by the CCA. The email also doesnt 
explain what role, if any, T played in the contractual agreement between Mr L and R. 
As Ive not seen sufficient evidence linking T to the supplier  R, Mr L doesnt have the 
required DCS agreement in place to make a section 75 claim. 
Mr Ls submissions are not entirely clear on how the events unfolded. But what I consider 
has happened here from what Ive seen is that R tricked Mr L into making payments to a 
cryptocurrency exchange, T.  
T didnt defraud Mr L nor steal his money and it did not pass it onto a third party without his 
consent. It seems to me that T simply did what was asked of it; in return for Mr Ls 
Mastercard payments, it exchanged his payment for cryptocurrency and sent it to the wallet 
details it had been provided with. So even if I were to consider T as the supplier, as it did 
nothing wrong, as appears to be the case, there could not reasonably be a successful like 
claim against M&S. 
In short, a claim against T would fail as it appears it did nothing wrong and a claim against R 
would fail as there is no DCS agreement. So, as with the chargeback issue above, I can see 
no viable grounds under section 75 for upholding the complaint. So it follows that I dont 
think M&S acted unfairly in declining Mr Ls claim.
Intervention
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr L for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). This is because they were made by Mr L 
using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by M&S. These must be regarded 
as authorised payments even though Mr L feels he was the victim of a scam and R had 
tricked him into making the payments. So, although he did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the PSRs, and under the terms and conditions of his account, Mr L is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. Nevertheless, M&S does have a duty to protect customers against the risk of financial loss 
due to fraud. So for completeness Ive also thought about whether I think M&S couldve 
reasonably done anything more to prevent Mr Ls loss at the time the payments were 
processed. And I dont think it could have. Looking at Mr Ls prior spending and the 
payments in question, I dont think they would have stood out to M&S as being particularly 
unusual where Id have expected it to intervene.  
I understand Mr L will be very disappointed with my conclusions however, for the reasons 
Ive outlined above I cant fairly ask M&S to refund his loss and I wont be asking it to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
Despite my natural sympathy for Mr Ls loss my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman