DRN-3627067
The complaint
Mrs N complains that although she sent TSB Bank plc copies of all the documents it wanted 
to see, so it wouldnt close her account, it still closed her account. Mrs N said shes spent 
months trying to make sure she still gets payments that were going into the closed account. 
What happened
Mrs N said shed had an account with TSB for about 40 years. TSB asked her for information
and ID documentation, and it said if she didnt send these it would close the account. Mrs N
said shed done everything that TSB asked, and sent all the documentation through, but TSB
just closed her account anyway. TSB also sent Mrs N a cheque for the money that had been
in her account, which was in her maiden name, so she couldnt cash it.
Mrs N said she used to have a number of regular payments made into the now-closed
account and it was taking her a very long time to change all of those. This created a lot of
problems for her. She was very unhappy, and wanted us to look into what had gone wrong.
TSB said it had repeatedly tried to contact Mrs N, to obtain additional up to date information
from her. It said that it wrote in October 2020, and rang on 27 October. TSB said it then
wrote again on 3 November, but it said Mrs N didnt respond.
TSB told us it then took a decision to close Mrs Ns account, on 11 January 2021, and it
wrote to her giving her two months notice of this. TSB said Mrs N contacted it on 15
January, and it wrote to her telling her how to supply documentation and avoid the closure of
her account. But TSB said it didnt receive anything, so it went ahead with the account
closure on 11 March.
TSB said it issued the money in Mrs Ns account to her in a cheque. When she contacted it
to say that the name on the cheque was wrong, TSB reissued the cheque to her.
TSB didnt think it had done anything wrong.
At first, our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that TSB had
repeatedly tried to contact Mrs N to get updated information and ID from her, and Mrs N
hadnt responded, until after it had told her it was going to close her account. Our
investigator also said TSB was offering to pay £50 for the inconvenience of sending a
cheque in Mrs Ns maiden name. Our investigator didnt think TSB had to do more than this.
Mrs N said that couldnt be right, because she had spoken to TSB after the account closure
letter was issued, and it had told her to send specific documentation. She understood TSB
might block or close her account if she didnt send these, but she had. Mrs N told us how
she had supplied this documentation to TSB, and showed us the email she sent.
Our investigator raised this with TSB, and it said that the email Mrs N had shared with our
service, which shed previously sent to TSB, didnt include any clear scan of her passport
and there was no proof of address. The photographs of Mrs N holding the items didnt show
the documents clearly enough for them to be read or accepted as proof of her address and
ID. So TSB said that, because it didnt receive clear copies of the documents it had
requested by the due date, it wasnt able to keep her account open.
Our investigator then changed her mind, and said TSB should pay a little more
compensation. She said she now thought TSB shouldve contacted Mrs N when it received
unclear images of her ID. She didnt think it was fair for TSB to go ahead and simply close
Mrs Ns account without doing that. But she said it was Mrs Ns responsibility to keep her
information up to date, so she didnt think TSB had to pay for issuing a cheque in Mrs Ns
maiden name when it hadnt been told about her change of name.
Our investigator said that TSB should pay Mrs N £150.
TSB accepted this, but Mrs N didnt. She said this was too low. Mrs N said she didnt get the
correspondence TSB said it had sent in October or November, and as soon as she got the
letter in January about account closure she responded.
TSB said Mrs N was welcome to apply for a new account with it, but it thought agreeing to
pay £150 was generous, given that it decided to close her account because she hadnt
responded to its letters and calls for several weeks. TSB also said Mrs N would have been
able to see the documentation that she was sending, so she could have seen that these
werent clear.
Mrs N continued to dispute that TSB had made repeated efforts to contact her by phone,
before it issued the January letter saying it would close her account. And she sent our
service written confirmation of the conversation shed had with TSB, in the form of a letter
dated 15 January setting out what information TSB wanted to see in order to keep her
account open.
Mrs N said shed sent all of the requested information on 22nd January 2021 in the
requested format via TSBs secure email address. So TSB had copies of what it needed, six
days before its deadline.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. Mrs N wanted her complaint to be considered by an
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional view in this case. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
TSB says Mrs N didnt respond to any of its attempts to contact her to update the 
information it held for her. So it gave her two months notice that it was going to close 
her account.
Mrs N has sought to dispute whether TSB made efforts to contact her during this time. 
But I dont think that this is the key issue in this case. Thats because what Mrs N is 
complaining about is that TSB closed her account although shed sent it the 
documentation it required.
TSB says it can close an account if it wants to, if it gives two months notice. And it says  
it did that in its letter of 11 January. But I think that what is most important here, is what 
happened just after this, when Mrs N got in touch with TSB, and arranged to send the 
documents it wanted.TSB wrote to Mrs N again on 15 January. This letter begins Please send us information 
needed to keep your account open. It sets out the information that TSB wants, and tells 
Mrs N how she can provide this. It then goes on to say This information you send us 
will help us meet our regulatory obligations and so that we can continue to offer our best 
service to you. We will review your account after 14 days if we have not heard from you. 
Please be aware that we may block or close your account if you do not send us this 
information.
I think that makes clear that TSB will take a fresh decision about whether to block or 
close Mrs Ns account, if it hasnt heard from her within 14 days of that letter. And that, 
in turn, means TSB has withdrawn its previous notice to close Mrs Ns account.
We know that Mrs N did then send some documents to TSB, although TSB itself didnt 
seem to appreciate that Mrs N had tried to comply with its request until our service told it 
this. But I dont think it matters whether TSB had overlooked the documents Mrs N sent, 
or whether it had looked at those documents and decided they werent sufficiently clear. 
The key issue here is that TSB withdrew its notice to close Mrs Ns account, and then 
didnt issue a fresh notice. So Mrs N hadnt been told that TSB was still going to close 
her account.
Thats why I dont think it was fair and reasonable when TSB then went ahead and 
closed Mrs Ns account on 11 March. I also note that, although Mrs N had sent TSB her 
marriage certificate along with the rest of the documents she provided, it then issued a 
cheque to her in her maiden name.
Mrs N has told us all about the type of payments that were being made into this account. 
She said its been very difficult to redirect these, and make sure shes still receiving 
them all. She was apparently still working on this several months after the account was 
closed.
I do think its been very upsetting and disruptive for Mrs N to find that this account was 
closed without warning. And I do think its likely that rearranging things when she was 
suddenly without this account has taken a lot of time and effort. Because of that, I think 
TSB should pay Mrs N a little more compensation than our investigator suggested. I 
think it should pay Mrs N £350 now, for the distress and inconvenience that this 
complaint has caused her.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
TSB said it didnt want to make any further comment. Mrs N hasnt replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has offered any further evidence or argument in response to my provisional 
decision, and I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mrs N £350 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman