DRN-2280726
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed their accounts and incorrectly 
added an address to their credit file. And theyd like compensation for this. 
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S had a number of accounts with HSBC.
In January 2017 HSBC wrote to Mrs S and Mr S to advise them theyd be closing all their 
accounts within two months. By April 2017 all of Mrs S and Mr Ss accounts were closed.
Mrs S and Mr S were unhappy with HSBC closing their accounts. They also learnt from a 
credit reference agency that HSBC had incorrectly reported an address to their credit file. So 
they complained to HSBC. 
HSBC looked into Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint. They accepted theyd followed their terms 
and conditions in closing Mrs S and Mr Ss account. And therefore acted fairly. But, HSBC 
accepted theyd incorrectly reported an address to the credit reference agencies, so agreed 
to remove this and paid £75 in compensation. 
Mrs S and Mr S didnt accept HSBCs response, so complained to our service. They 
explained that HSBCs decision to close their accounts and put incorrect information on their 
credit file had caused them significant stress. And time spent rearranging finances and 
visiting the bank branch. Mrs S and Mr S also advised theyd struggled to open new 
accounts and believe this is because of the incorrect information reported. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint. But they didnt uphold it. 
They concluded that HSBC were within their rights to close Mrs S and Mr Ss account by 
giving two months notice. And without further evidence to demonstrate the impact of the 
incorrectly reported address on Mrs S and Mr S she thought £75 compensation was fair.
 
Mrs S and Mr S didnt accept our investigators conclusion and in summary said:
-There was no consideration on the impact caused by the bank in placing the wrong 
address on their credit file. 
-They cant accept that HSBC can add false information on a credit file, then fail to act 
swiftly to remove the data. Before paying insufficient compensation. 
-If HSBC hadnt incorrectly put the address on their credit file theyd still be HSBC 
customers.
As Mrs S and Mr S didnt accept our investigators conclusions its been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly similar 
reasons. And Ill explain why below. 
Credit file reporting:
HSBC have accepted that they incorrectly reported an address to credit reference agencies 
 and agreed to remove the address and paid £75 compensation for the impact this caused. 
Ive seen evidence that both of these actions were successfully carried out. But I need to 
assess whether I think the compensation offered was sufficient. Mrs S and Mr S have 
explained that HSBC didnt remove the incorrect information quickly enough once they were 
advised  and the inaccurate address prevented them from opening new accounts. Our 
investigator asked them for evidence of this, but unfortunately due to the time since this 
happened Mrs S and Mr S have been unable to provide this. From the evidence Ive seen 
Mrs S and Mr S advised HSBC of the incorrect address in March 2019, and HSBC 
requested that it was removed in May 2019. I dont find this timescale unreasonable. 
Ive moved on to consider whether the address likely prevented Mrs S and Mr S from 
opening new accounts. And I realise this will disappoint Mrs S and Mr S but Ive not seen 
any evidence that the reason they couldnt open certain bank accounts was related to or 
caused by the inaccurate reporting. In conclusion Im satisfied the £75 compensation paid by 
HSBC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Account closure:
Mrs S and Mr S are unhappy that HSBC closed all of their accounts in 2017. HSBC wrote 
out to Mrs S and Mr S in January 2017 to advise them theyd be closing their accounts in two 
months. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs S and Mr Ss accounts and they 
state:
Section 13 Closing your account
 
We can close your account for any reason provided we give you two months notice.
I understand that Mrs S and Mr S believe that HSBC closed their accounts because of the 
incorrect information recorded on their credit file. However, HSBC arent obliged to provide a 
reason for the closure. As they provided two months notice, Im satisfied they acted within 
the terms and conditions of the account.
I realise the closure of the accounts caused Mrs S and Mr S inconvenience, however HSBC 
can make commercial decisions about who they offer banking services to. They cant unfairly 
discriminate against a customer. But they can decide they no longer with to do business with 
individuals. Thats because they have the commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to 
contract with. And Im satisfied that HSBC exercised its commercial freedom legitimately 
when it closed Mrs S and Mr Ss accounts. So I cant fairly and reasonable say HSBC have 
done anything wrong here. 
In summary whilst I appreciate Mrs S and Mr Ss frustrations, I dont think HSBC failed to 
follow their own procedures. So I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further here.
 
My final decisionMy final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 January 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman