DRN-3858065
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund money he lost 
to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr G came across cryptocurrency investment on social media. He states 
he completed an enquiry form and subsequently started receiving several calls a day from 
individuals offering investment services. 
Mr G says he engaged with two brokers, Live-Bit and Trendsmacro, and was sold an 
investment opportunity. Hes told us that the brokers said he could get returns in the region 
of 50-100% within a month. Mr G told NatWest that he was told he could expect 10% return 
each month.
Between 25 February and 10 March, Mr G sent just over £70,000 to his trading account. 
Mr G first sent money from his NatWest account to another company called Coinbase. It 
converted his funds into cryptocurrency, which Mr G then sent on to his trading account. 
Unfortunately, the trading platform turned out to be a scam.  
The transactions relevant to this complaint are set out below.
Transaction Date Type Merchant/Payee Amount
25 February 2021 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £2.00
26 February 2021 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £5,000.00
1 March 2021 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £5,000.00
2 March 2021 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £300.00
2 March 2021 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £13,000.00
3 March 2021 Credit Coinbase £329.79 (credit)
3 March 2021 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £3,000.00
3 March 2021 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £15,000.00
3 March 2021 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £2,000.00
4 March 2021 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £5,000.00
4 March 2021 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £15,000.00
5 March 2021 Credit Coinbase £500 (credit)
5 March 2021 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £5,000.00
10 March 2021 Faster payment CB PAYMENTS £2,000.00
17 March 2021 Credit Coinbase £181.41 (credit)
Total payments £70,302.00
Less credits £1,011.20
Total loss £69,290.80
Mr G eventually realised hed been scammed, and he reported the matter to NatWest on 
18 March 2021. It refused to refund the payments and asked Mr G to contact CB 
PAYMENTS as the loss occurred when it sent the cryptocurrency into his crypto wallet.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. They thought that NatWest didnt sufficiently 
question Mr G when the £5,000 payment on 26 February triggered its fraud detection 
systems. Had it done so, the investigator thought it likely that the bank would have 
uncovered the scam, thereby limiting Mr Gs loss. So, they recommended that all payments 
Mr G made from that point onwards be refunded less the credit already received.
NatWest disagreed with the investigators findings and said that Mr G needed to raise his 
concerns with CB PAYMENTS. It said the actual point of loss was when it transferred the 
funds received from Mr Gs NatWest account into his crypto wallet with Coinbase which the 
scammer had access to. 
I issued my provisional decision a few days ago and explained that while I intended 
upholding this complaint, I planned to make a deduction for contributory negligence.
I invited further comments from both parties in response to my provisional decision. Mr G 
and NatWest have replied. Mr G hasnt provided anything further for me to consider. 
NatWest has said it accepts the award I intend to make. So, what follows is my provisional 
decision made final.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
The payments Mr G made to the fraudulent company werent sent directly from his bank 
account to the companys. All payments were made via another account in Mr Gs name 
which he had control over. Under these circumstances, the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which requires signatories such as 
NatWest to reimburse customers who are victims of scams like this one in all but a limited 
number of circumstances, doesnt apply.
While I find the CRM Code doesnt apply here, that code is not the full extent of the relevant 
obligations that could apply in cases such as this. In accordance with the law, regulations 
and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act 
on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or 
financial crime, it might be liable for the losses incurred by its customers as a result. 
NatWest argues that the transfer from Mr Gs account with it to CB PAYMENTS hasnt 
caused him any loss. Ive considered that the disputed payments were sent to a legitimate 
crypto platform. I accept that buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise. But both the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had warned of crypto exchange and 
forex trading scams in 2018. And in May 2019, Action Fraud published further warnings that 
such scams had tripled in the past year. This type of insight is something that regulated 
businesses, including NatWest, ought to take notice of. Even though Mr G was transferring funds to an account (crypto wallet) in his name, NatWest 
ought to have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. While the 
transfers were made to his own wallet, scams involving transfers to cryptocurrency accounts 
were well known to banks by this time and I therefore think that where payments were also 
out of character, potential losses were foreseeable to the originating bank. 
Ive considered the operation of Mr Gs account in the months leading up to the disputed 
transactions. I dont consider the initial payment of £2 to be unusual or suspicious such that I 
think NatWest ought to have intervened at that point. 
The next transaction  £5,000 on 26 February 2021  was substantially higher than the other 
transactions on Mr Gs account (there were some large-value transactions in May 2020, but 
they were transfers between Mr Gs NatWest accounts). I find that this transaction was so 
unusual that NatWests systems ought to have triggered an alert and the payment paused, 
pending further enquiries. The information Ive seen suggests that Mr G first attempted to 
make this payment online. But when that didnt work, he phoned NatWest and an agent took 
his payment instructions. 
Ive listened to the call between NatWest and Mr G. The agent took Mr G through additional 
security before sending a verification code to his mobile phone. He then read a scam script 
and asked Mr G a few questions such as why he was making the payment; whether hed 
received a call from someone purporting to be from his bank, police or HMRC; or offering to 
help him during the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr G responded with a no to the questions. Before 
making the payment, the agent asked Mr G if he had any concerns about the payment and 
whether he was happy to make it, and he confirmed that he was.
Having carefully thought about this, Im not satisfied that NatWest went far enough in making 
enquiries about the payment in question. Given the amount involved, and the fact that the 
payment was to a known crypto platform, I consider that it would have been reasonable for 
NatWest to have properly questioned Mr G before executing his authorised instruction. Even 
if he had been sending money to a legitimate crypto platform, it didnt follow that Mr Gs 
money was safe, or that he wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud or a scam. By the 
time Mr G made the payments, I think NatWest had or ought to have had a good enough 
understanding of how these scams worked to have been able to identify the risk of harm 
from fraud. Including, that the customer often first purchases cryptocurrency and moves it on 
to the fraudster under the assumption that theyre moving it into their own wallet or account. 
Had NatWest done more and warned Mr G about cryptocurrency scams, Ive no reason to 
doubt that he would have explained the true purpose of his payment, as well as how he 
came to know about the investment opportunity. I cant see that Mr G been given a reason to 
think he had to hide this information from his bank. Neither had he been coached to tell them 
something different. Im satisfied that Mr G would have looked further into the investment 
opportunity in general, including whether the brokers hed been dealing with were regulated 
here in the UK or abroad. He could have discovered that they werent. Indeed, its likely that 
Mr G would have come across the various warnings about cryptocurrency scams. 
Im therefore persuaded that a more relevant and meaningful intervention from NatWest at 
that time would likely have exposed the scam and caused Mr G to stop from going ahead 
with the payment, thereby preventing further losses. 
Contributory negligence
Ive also carefully thought about whether Mr G is partly to blame for what happened. This is 
where my findings differ to that of our investigator. It doesnt appear Mr G carried out much 
due diligence, if any, before deciding to invest, even when investing higher amounts. It is reasonable for independent research to be carried out to be satisfied that an investment 
opportunity is genuine. I think being told the rate of return he could expect ought to have 
raised suspicions with him.
So, I do think Mr G ought to bear some responsibility for his losses and that compensation 
should be reduced accordingly. Having thought about this carefully, given the imbalance of 
knowledge between the parties, I consider that it would be fair to reduce compensation by 
20%.
Putting things right
To put matters right, National Westminster Bank Plc needs to reimburse Mr G all the 
disputed payments from 26 February 2021 onwards less £1,011.20 that has already been 
recovered, making a 20% deduction for contributory negligence. 
As the payments came from a current account, I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for the bank to also add simple interest at 8% per year, calculated from the date 
of loss to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require National 
Westminster Bank Plc to put things right for Mr G as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman