DRN-2459136
The complaint
Ms C has complained that the price of her home insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance plc (RSA) was too high and she was able to get a much cheaper policy when she 
shopped around. 
What happened
Ms C bought her home insurance policy through her bank in 2004. Since then, she renewed 
her policy each year and the premium has increased even though Ms C hasnt made a 
claim.
When Ms C received her renewal invitation in January 2019, she shopped around and was 
able to find a much cheaper policy elsewhere. So she cancelled her policy with RSA. She 
made a complaint as she believes shes been overpaying for her insurance for a number of 
years.
RSA said it had correctly calculated Ms Cs premium. RSA was the underwriter of Ms Cs 
policy from the renewal in March 2018. Before that, a different underwriter provided cover for 
Ms C.
Our investigator explained to Ms C that we could only look at the actions of RSA from March 
2018. So Ms C can raise a separate complaint against the previous underwriter about the 
premium she paid before March 2018. 
The investigator thought RSA hadnt done anything wrong. So she didnt recommend Ms Cs 
complaint be upheld.
Ms C didnt agree. She said she was paying far too much for her insurance. Shes 
concerned that other customers without internet access will continue to pay more than they 
need to as they put their trust in the insurer who they have been loyal to.
So Ms C would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to make it clear that our role isnt to tell a business how it should operate. And this 
includes telling a business what it should charge its customers for insurance products. But I 
can look at whether RSA treated Ms C fairly during the time she held her home insurance 
policy with it. As the investigator explained, my decision is about the actions of RSA as the 
underwriter that set the price for her policy. RSA was the underwriter from the renewal date 
in March 2018. Ms C bought a policy elsewhere before the renewal date in March 2019.
Ms C says she was able to obtain an alternative policy with another insurer for a lot less than 
what she had paid RSA for her policy. I dont doubt what Ms C has told us. When new 
policies are taken out, they often come with a significant initial discount which insurers aim to 
recoup over the years through customer retention. This is often referred to as new customer 
discount and has the effect of reducing the initial cost of the insurance policy. And 
businesses can also offer their customers discounts with the aim of retaining their existing 
customers. This is something businesses may do at their own discretion and we wouldnt 
consider it unfair. 
Insurance policies provided by different insurers may involve different features and/or levels 
of benefits and the level of service offered to customers may also be different. So, we do 
need to be careful when comparing the cost of insurance policies, as there may be some 
known and possibly some unknown factors that could impact on the overall cost of the 
policy. 
I think its also worth mentioning that insurers can have a different perception of the risk a 
customer presents  and so the cost between insurers can be different based on each 
insurers perceived risk of the thing its undertaking to insure.
All of these factors mean that the cost of the policy Ms C held with RSA and the renewal 
price it offered for March 2019 would be different to the cost of a policy taken out more 
recently. So, although Ms C could take out a policy at a much lower cost today, for the 
reasons explained, I dont think it would be fair to compare the cost of different policies taken 
out at different times as if they were like-for-like. 
More recently, online practices and price comparison websites have resulted in insurers 
offering slightly more competitive prices. Some customers can now manage their policies 
online and this can reduce administrative costs to insurers, which in turn means savings 
applied to the reduction offered to customers.
The Financial Conduct Authority set terms from 1 April 2017 referred to as Transparency in 
insurance renewal rules. Insurance companies and intermediaries were required to include 
such reminders in their renewal letters, where consumers had renewed their policy four, or 
more, consecutive times. 
Ive looked at the renewal invite Ms C received in January 2018. It says the following:
Youve been with us a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover 
you want at a better price if you shop around.
I can see that this statement was repeated in Ms Cs renewal invite in January 2019. So Im 
satisfied that Ms C was made aware that she may be able to obtain her cover for cheaper if 
she shopped around in good time before the renewal date for both 2018 and 2019.
I understand Ms C will be disappointed. But having taken everything into account, I dont 
think RSA has treated Ms C unfairly. And so this means Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman