DRN-4464765
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs Y complain that Topaz Finance Limited (trading as Heliodor Mortgages) hasnt
amended their credit files as agreed, after their previous complaint was upheld. They also
say that Heliodor is incorrectly chasing them for arrears on their mortgage and theyre
unhappy with the general service received when trying to get these issues resolved.
What happened
Mr D and Mrs Y took out a secured loan and a linked unsecured loan with Northern Rock.
This is referred to as a Together mortgage.
In 2008, Northern Rock collapsed and was later nationalised. Mr D and Mrs Ys mortgage
and loan were transferred to NRAM. In November 2019, Mr D and Mrs Ys mortgage and
unsecured loan were sold to Heliodor.
In 2020 Mr D and Mrs Y complained to Heliodor about the misallocation of payments they
were making towards their mortgage and unsecured loan in the first half of that year.
Mr D and Mrs Y were using a paying in book to make their payments, but their deposits
werent getting credited to their accounts that had recently transferred to Heliodor. Heliodor
reported arrears to the credit reference agencies (CRA) for the supposed missed payments.
Heliodor upheld the complaint. It adjusted Mr D and Mrs Ys accounts to reflect the 
payments theyd made. Heliodor also said it would arrange for their credit files to be 
amended and it paid Mr D and Mrs Y £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
In late 2022 Mr D and Mrs Y complained to Heliodor again, because their credit files hadnt
been properly updated. They also complained about a letter from Heliodor suggesting theyd
made underpayments towards their accounts in recent months. Mr D and Mrs Y say that
because of Heliodors actions, the adverse information reported on their credit files is
stopping them from re-mortgaging elsewhere. As such they consider themselves as
mortgage prisoners.
Unhappy with Heliodors delayed response to their complaint, and its general service, Mr D
and Mrs Y brought their complaint to our service. During our involvement Heliodor answered
the complaint, it said:
When resolving Mr D and Mrs Ys complaint in 2020, it amended the arrears reported
on their secured loan but not their unsecured loan. Heliodor apologised for the error
and said the amendment had now been made.
It had adhered to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance on dealing with
customers who are in a mortgage prisoner situation. Heliodor said it wrote to Mr D
and Mrs Y in late 2020 to tell them they may be able to find a cheaper mortgage
elsewhere and gave information on how to explore switching lenders.
It acknowledged it took too long to answer Mr D and Mrs Ys complaint, but it did not
agree that they were spoken to badly by staff or that it was under any obligation to
provide names of staff dealing with their complaint.
It did not agree that it incorrectly notified Mr D and Mrs Y of arrears on their account.
It said that Mr D and Mrs Y had made underpayments in October and November
2022, so a letter was sent accordingly in November 2022.
Heliodor did acknowledge that it could have provided Mr D and Mrs Y with better
information when they called to query the letter they received.
Heliodor accepted it got some things wrong and upheld part of the complaint. It offered Mr D
and Mrs Y £250 compensation to apologise for its errors.
An investigator at our service looked into things and explained why she thought Heliodor had
settled the complaint fairly and why she thought the amount offered as compensation was
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr D and Mrs Y disagreed and asked for their case to be decided by an ombudsman. In
summary they disagree that Heliodor has properly amended their credit file, as they say
adverse information is still being reported. And they dont feel £250 fairly compensates them
for all the issues they say theyve experienced.
While waiting for a final decision on their case, Mr D and Mrs Y were provided with copies of 
the evidence relied on by the investigator when reaching her view.
Because an agreement wasnt reached the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision on 20 November 2023. An extract of which has been provided below. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with each of Mr D and Mrs Ys complaint points in turn.
Credit file reporting
Heliodor has provided evidence of the information it has reported to the CRAs with the
entries to be recorded on Mr D and Mrs Ys credit files. I can see that in accordance with
their previous complaint, the entries on Mr D and Mrs Ys secured and unsecured loans have
now been amended to show both accounts as up-to-date between January and July 2020.
Heliodor accepts that it didnt update the data relating to the unsecured loan when resolving
Mr D and Mrs Ys initial complaint in 2020, as it should have done. It has since provided
evidence that it notified the CRAs of the relevant changes in February 2023. Ive considered
the relevant evidence and Im satisfied Heliodor has now reported the correct information to
the CRAs on both Mr D and Mrs Ys secured and unsecured loans for the period relating to
the misallocated payments between January and July 2020.
Mr D and Mrs Y complain that adverse information continues to be reported on their credit
files. Heliodor has recently explained to our service that those entries relate to information
reported on Mr D and Mrs Ys secured loan for a different period in question.
Heliodor has shown that it has reported arrears for November and December 2019 and from
August 2020 to November 2020.
Ive correlated that with the arrears statement for Mr D and Mrs Ys secured loan account
and from the evidence available to me it appears Heliodors reporting is correct. The
transactions for this account show no payment was made in November 2019 and an
underpayment was made in December 2019. Heliodor has also explained that even aftermaking the adjustments for the misallocation of payment in the first half of 2020, from August
2020 to November 2020 the arrears balance was more than the expected payment amount
for those months  so arrears have been reported to the CRAs to reflect that.
I appreciate this may be new information for Mr D and Mrs Y. Ive enclosed copies of the
transaction history and arrears statement for their secured loan with this provisional decision,
for their consideration.
Lenders have a duty to report accurate and up-to-date information to CRAs. Based on
everything Ive seen so far; it appears to me that the information reported in late 2019 and
late 2020 adequately reflects the position of Mr D and Mrs Ys secured loan account in those
periods. So I dont conclude that Heliodor has got things wrong in the way that it has
reported data to the CRAs.
If Mr D and Mrs Y disagree, theyre welcome to provide any supporting evidence in response
to this provisional decision. Id invite them to provide evidence of the payments made in
those months and a full copy of their current credit files for me to cross reference this against
the information given by Heliodor. In the absence of evidence to show the full contractual
payments were made in those months, my final decision will be along these lines as set out.
Mortgage prisoner complaint
Mr D and Mrs Y say that because of Heliodors incorrect reporting and the length of time it
took to amend their credit files for the period relating to early 2020, theyve been unable to
re-mortgage with a different lender and as such they consider themselves to be mortgage
prisoners.
The FCA defines mortgage prisoners as:
borrowers who are up to date with their payments but cannot switch to a different
lender or product when it might benefit them to do so. This is because they have loan
and/or borrower characteristics that are outside current lender risk appetite.
To hold Heliodor responsible for Mr D and Mrs Ys inability to re-mortgage to a different
lender, Id need to be able to safely say that there was no other adverse information on Mr D
and Mrs Ys credit file that could have possibly prevented them from obtaining a mortgage
elsewhere. But for reasons Ive explained that was not the case here. As such I cannot say
for certain that it was solely due to Heliodors incorrect reporting in early 2020 that Mr D and
Mrs Ys credit scores were impacted. And in any event, Ive also seen no evidence of a
declined mortgage application.
Arrears in late 2022
When Mr D and Mrs Y brought their complaint to our service in November 2022, they
complained about a letter theyd received from Heliodor that month saying that theyd made
underpayments to their account. I can see that Mr D made several calls to Heliodor around
that time to query the letter hed received. On those calls Heliodor explained how the
underpayments had occurred. This was also followed up in Heliodors written response to
Mr D and Mrs Ys complaint.
Heliodor has explained that Mr D and Mrs Y made underpayments in October and
November 2022. Their contractual monthly payment was £837.96. They made several
payments in October which totalled £600 and again several payments in November that
totalled £827. So their payments were short in both months.This correlates with the information shown on Mr D and Mrs Ys transaction histories across
their accounts. As such Im persuaded underpayments were made in those months and Im
satisfied that Heliodor acted in accordance with the relevant mortgage regulation by writing
to Mr D and Mrs Y to notify them of the arrears on their account at that time.
Customer service
Mr D and Mrs Y complain about the service they received from Heliodor when enquiring
about the underpayments in late 2022 and the time it took for it to answer their complaint.
Ive listened to the calls that took place in late November and early December 2022. Im
satisfied that the staff Mr D spoke to were helpful and pleasant when answering Mr Ds
queries. I dont agree that the agent(s) were rude or patronising as Mr D suggests. Ive heard
the call where Mr D accuses the agent of such behaviour. I appreciate there was some
talking over each other, but I think that largely arose from what I consider to be
confrontational behaviour on Mr Ds part. It seems he misinterpreted the agents intentions to
help him by her repeating the payments history again, following Mr Ds misunderstanding the
first time. I also accept that Heliodor is not required to provide names of its complaint
handlers to its customers. This is to ensure the safety and privacy of its staff. So I dont
conclude that Heliodor was at any fault here.
Data breach
Lasty, during this complaint Mr D and Mrs Y have also raised concerns of a data breach
committed by Heliodor. They say they were sent information relating to another customer.
Our service has the scope to consider complaints from customers about the way a business
has handled their personal information and any potential risk to them. Mr D and Mrs Y arent
complaining about the mishandling of their own personal data. If Mr D and Mrs Y have
concerns about the way that Heliodor handles data in general, they may wish to speak to the
information commissioners office (ICO). The ICO regulates compliance with data protection
laws in the UK. It has the power to order businesses to comply with data protection laws and
to fine them. For reasons Ive explained, our service is unable to consider this type of
complaint.
Summary
Heliodor has offered Mr D and Mrs Y £250 compensation to acknowledge the distress and
inconvenience caused by having to raise the issue of the delayed credit file amendment and
for its delayed response to their complaint. It also acknowledged it could have provided
clearer information during the enquiries made in November/December 2022.
I appreciate Mr D and Mrs Y feel it took Heliodor several years to properly resolve their
complaint from 2020. Heliodor excepts it made a mistake, but it could not reasonably know it
had got things wrong until the error was raised by Mr D and Mrs Y in late 2022. Once they
raised the issue, Heliodor took reasonable steps to investigate things further and it made the
necessary amendments. Granted it took longer than expected for the complaint to be
answered, but having considered everything, Im satisfied £250 fairly compensates Mr D and
Mrs Y for the administration issues described above.
The offer amount is in line with our services general award banding and suitably reflects and
recognises the level of inconvenience caused by having to deal with these issues.
My provisional decisionMy provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Topaz Finance Limited
trading as Heliodor Mortgages to make the compensation award of £250 to Mr D and Mrs Y.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Heliodor responded to say that it agreed 
with my provisional findings. Mr D and Mrs Y didnt agree. In summary they dispute that their 
account is currently in arrears, and they dont feel that £250 fairly compensates them for the 
errors that have occurred to date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have given careful consideration to Mr D and Mrs Ys response, but I note that neither party
has made any new arguments, or provided any new evidence, that Ive not already
considered when reaching my provisional decision. So, I see no reason to depart from what I
provisionally decided.
For clarity I can confirm that my provisional decision only makes reference to arrears 
reported to the CRAs between 2019 and 2020 and further underpayments in 2022. I make 
no mention of Mr D and Mrs Ys account being in arrears as of present. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision remains that Topaz Finance Limited trading as 
Heliodor Mortgages should pay Mr D and Mrs Y £250 compensation for the administration 
issued as outlined in the summary section of my provisional decision. Im satisfied that this 
is a fair award in the circumstances and a proportionate award in line with our published 
bandings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint to the extent that I direct Topaz Finance 
Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages to pay Mr D and Mrs Y the £250 as offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman