DRN-1432745
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold her a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2004 in connection with 
her mortgage. 
  
What happened
Mrs M took out a PPI policy called Mortgage Repayments Cover alongside her mortgage. 
The policy was for Mrs M and she paid a monthly amount for the policy. She took this policy 
out as part of a package called Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) which offered 
accident, sickness, unemployment, critical illness and life cover. In this decision Im only 
considering the Mortgage Repayments Cover (PPI) part of the TMPP as thats what Mrs M 
has complained about.
Mrs M complained that she didnt know the policy was optional; it wasnt suitable for her and 
she didnt need it. So she concludes the policy was mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like she was 
offered an optional policy and it was suitable for her needs when it was taken out. Our 
adjudicator said the information might have been clearer but concludes Mrs M probably 
would have bought the PPI anyway.
Mrs M disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will 
be a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. 
I first looked at whether BOS made Mrs M aware the policy was optional. She said she didnt 
know it was an optional product and she thought she had to have PPI to get the mortgage. I 
looked at a sample of the PPI application form which BOS said its consumers would have 
seen around the time of Mrs Ms sale. I could see it was a separate form which dealt only 
with PPI. As it was a separate form, I can reasonably assume she didnt have to instruct 
BOS to complete it at all and so could have declined PPI. So I think the policy was presented 
as an optional product. 
I saw Mrs M would have had to sign the PPI form, so I can reasonably assume she would 
have checked the contents of the form before signing it to make sure she agreed the 
contents. So I think her signature was enough authority for BOS to add PPI to her mortgage 
account.
BOS said the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for Mrs Ms 
needs. In this case, I think it was suitable for Mrs M because she was eligible for the PPI 
policy, it seems the policy was affordable for her at the time and, it doesnt look like she was 
affected by the main exclusions and limitations in the policy. 
I looked into her financial circumstances at the time of the sale to see if the policy was still 
suitable for her.
Mrs M said she was in full time employment and could get good employee benefits if she 
was off sick or couldnt work due to an accident; she also had savings which were 
earmarked for the deposit on her house purchase. This left her with around £5,000.00 in 
savings. 
However, having decided she wanted PPI and chose to have it, I think Mrs M probably 
thought the policy provided a valuable benefit to her in addition to her employee benefits. I 
say this because the PPI could have paid out for longer than her employee benefits at a time 
when she might have needed it most. So I dont think her employee benefits made the policy 
unsuitable.
I think it was useful for Mrs M to be able to rely on the PPI policy for mortgage repayments 
instead of using her other funds which could be used for other expenses. So I dont think her 
finances at the time of the sale made the policy unsuitable.  
I also looked at whether BOS gave Mrs M enough clear information about the policy. In 
respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear whether the documents set these out. But 
having said that, I dont know how the cost and benefits were actually explained to her in the 
meeting. So as Ive decided she chose to have PPI and that it was suitable and affordable 
for her, I dont think that having more detailed information about the cost and benefits would 
have put her off from taking out the policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions and limitations were brought to Mrs Ms attention. But as she 
wasnt affected by the main exclusions and limitations to the policy, I dont think she would 
have decided not to buy PPI even if shed been given a full list of the exclusions. 
All this means BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
But BOS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
BOS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because BOS didnt tell Mrs M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including what she said about the policy not 
being shown as optional and her finances being enough at the time. But, taking everything 
into account, I think she was aware PPI was optional. I think that it was suitable for her 
financial circumstances and I think she had enough information to make a decision about it. 
So as her points dont change my decision, Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.But Bank of Scotland does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman