DRN-3317048
The complaint
Mrs W complained on behalf of herself and the estate of Mr S that a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy was mis-sold by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax 
(Bank of Scotland) in 2006.
What happened
Mrs W said she and Mr S took out the PPI alongside a mortgage in 2006 - the mortgage 
started in September 2006 and the PPI came into effect at the same time. It appears that the 
sale took place over the phone, and Bank of Scotland said that it recommended the policy 
for Mrs W and Mr S. The policy was then cancelled in November 2006 at Mrs W and Mr Ss 
request.
Mrs W said that she and Mr S had not been aware that the policy had been added to the 
mortgage, and had cancelled it when they did become aware. And as they had both had 
good employee benefits and savings, the policy was unnecessary. 
The PPI policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mrs W and Mr S at 
a monthly cost of £178.20. The monthly benefit was £3,000.00, split equally between Mrs W 
and Mr S. If either had made a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 
months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs W disagreed, and asked 
that it be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint. 
On balance, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland sent in various documents from the point of sale, including copies of Mrs W 
and Mr Ss mortgage illustration and mortgage offer, along with the demands and needs 
statement for the PPI and the policy schedule. The mortgage illustration is dated July 2006, 
so it seems likely that this is when the PPI was sold. 
Ive thought about what Mrs W said about not being aware that the PPI had been added to 
the mortgage. However, the mortgage offer and illustration both show details of the PPI 
(listed in a section headed optional insurance), and I have a letter dated July 2006 which 
confirms that the application for the PPI policy had been accepted. This was later followed 
by the policy schedule in September 2006. 
From all this Im satisfied that Mrs W and Mr S were aware of the policy at the time, and 
were given a choice about taking it. I think Mrs W may simply not recall the details as it 
happened so long ago.
As Bank of Scotland advised Mrs W and Mr S to take the PPI, it shouldve made sure it was 
suitable for them. On balance, I think it was.
As the sale took place over the phone, and there is no call recording available, I cant know 
how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things not covered. But I cant see that 
Mrs W and Mr S wouldve been affected by any of these. Mrs W mentioned a health 
problem, but said that this had been resolved some years earlier, so I dont think she 
wouldve considered it as a likely reason to claim. 
Its not clear how the cost of the PPI was explained to Mrs W and Mr S over the phone, but it 
was included in the product illustration and mortgage offer, so I think it was clear what theyd 
need to pay. And Ive no evidence to suggest the premium was unaffordable for them.
Mrs W told us that she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from her employer of six months 
full pay followed by six months half pay, and that Mr Ss sick pay entitlement was around six 
months full pay. Mrs W also mentioned that they would both have been entitled to 
redundancy pay, and that she and Mr S had had savings they couldve relied on  the 
amount she mentioned was roughly equivalent to 3 to 4 months joint salary. 
Ive thought about what Mrs W said about this. But Ive also kept in mind that the mortgage 
payments were relatively high, so had Mrs W or Mr S been unable to work for an extended 
period or had been made redundant, the reduction in income couldve made it difficult to 
make the mortgage payments. And the PPI couldve allowed them to use their savings for 
their everyday living expenses. I also think Mrs W and Mr S could reasonably have wanted 
to protect an important commitment that was secured on their home. So I think the PPI 
couldve provided a useful benefit.
Mrs W also said that the policy had been cancelled very quickly  indeed, based on the 
dates in Bank of Scotlands records it looks likely that only two monthly premiums were paid 
as the PPI was cancelled in November 2006  and this showed that the policy was 
unnecessary. Again, Ive considered Mrs Ws comments on this point. However, I also note 
that Mrs W said that she received a bonus from her employer in October 2006, which more 
than doubled the amount of her and Mr Ss savings. So its possible that this may have 
prompted a review of their circumstances. But Im not satisfied that the cancellation, in itself, 
means that the original recommendation of the policy by Bank of Scotland was wrong. 
This is a finely balanced decision, but in summary, although I cant know whether Bank of 
Scotland clearly explained all of the policy details, I think Mrs W and Mr S would still have 
bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful protection if they hadnt been able to 
work. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W as I can see she feels strongly about this, but my 
conclusion is that, on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and the 
representatives of the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2022.
 
Jan FerrariOmbudsman