DRN-3633572
The complaint
Mrs I complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Sainsbury's Home Insurance 
(UKI) handled her complaint on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs I had home insurance that was underwritten by UKI. In November 2018 she made a 
claim after noticing cracks in the property. The claim was accepted under the subsidence 
cover and monitoring began. 
In around June 2019 UKI concluded that the subsidence was being caused by vegetation 
that was owned by a third party organisation. It said this would need to be removed in order 
for the property to stabilise. It contacted the third party but was unable to get a positive 
response for some time. In October 2021 it contacted the third party to say that it would pay 
the cost of the removal if it agreed to it. The third party agreed and the tree has since been 
removed.
During this time UKIs contractors carried out various tests and monitoring to the property. 
And one of the holes it dug as part of this caused a retaining wall to collapse. Mrs I explained 
this to UKI but it didnt agree this was the cause. She got a report from an independent 
expert who concluded this was the cause. Based on this, UKI agreed to pay for the wall to 
be reinstated.
Mrs I was unhappy with how the claim had progressed and made a complaint. UKI 
responded in October 2021 but didnt uphold the complaint, as it said the reason the claim 
hadnt progressed was because the third party hadnt responded to its request for the tree to 
be removed.
Unhappy with this, Mrs I brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator considered 
all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He said he didnt think UKI had 
done enough to chase the third party for the tree removal and this had added to the delays. 
And he said that UKI had only agreed to take responsibility for the collapse of the wall after 
Mrs I commissioned her own report. So he said UKI should reimburse Mrs I for the report, 
plus pay 8% interest. And it should pay £600 compensation to make up for the unnecessary 
delays it had caused. 
Mrs I accepted our investigators outcome. However UKI didnt. It said it had accepted 
responsibility for the wall before the report was commissioned so didnt agree it should pay 
for it. And it didnt agree it was responsible for any delays so didnt think compensation was 
due. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs Is claim has continued beyond UKIs final response to her complaint dated 
October 2021, and that she has remained unhappy with how its handled matters. As part of 
this complaint, Im only looking at issues up until this final response, so wont comment on 
what happened after this date. I understand this now forms part of a separate complaint. 
Delays
Claims for subsidence often take a long time to settle. They often involve many months of 
monitoring, various contractors and mitigation work to address the cause, needs to be 
carried out before repairs can begin. This can often delay a resolution to the claim. When 
considering a complaint, I need to consider if the business in question has caused any 
delays that could have been avoided, above any unavoidable delays that are just part of a 
subsidence claim.
Here, Ive considered the timeline of the claim, and I agree that the main cause of the delays 
has been the difficulties faced in getting the third party organisation to remove the tree 
identified as the cause of the subsidence. When there is a third party involved in a claim, it 
will often take longer to settle, as the claim moving forward is dependent on the actions of 
that third party which is outside of the businesses control.
But Id expect to see that the business did all it could to ensure the claim was being moved 
along as promptly as possible. And here I think UKI could have done more.
The tree was identified as the cause in June 2019 and the third party organisation were first 
contacted around this time. Apart from some initial contact in November of that year there 
was very little response from them. And in February 2020 UKI had internal discussions about 
issuing a legal letter to force the third party to take action. However no such action was 
taken at that time. And it wasnt until October 2021 that UKI took more strong action, saying 
it would pay for the removal or move to repairs and charge them to the third party. This 
resulted in a quick response from the third party agreeing to the course of action.
While the actions of the third party are not within UKIs control, I cant see why stronger 
action wasnt taken between February 2020 and October 2021 to try and move this process 
on. A legal letter was discussed but never issued, and while the matter was chased, this 
wasnt done regularly and there were no further proposals for a resolution until October 
2021. As the offer made then led to a much quicker response and resolution of the matter, I 
think UKIs lack of action towards the third party delayed the claim for a number of months 
when it could have been moved forward much earlier. 
Due to this delay Mrs I has been living in a property that has worsening subsidence damage 
and has been unable to use her spare bedroom where her granddaughter usually stays. UKI 
also failed to provide Mrs I with meaningful updates in this time, which has meant Mrs I has 
had to repeatedly contact it, leading to further distress and inconvenience. 
For these reasons I agree with our investigators recommendation that UKI pay Mrs I £600 to 
apologise for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Wall
While carrying out its investigatory work, UKI knocked over a wall at Mrs Is property. It has 
now accepted responsibility for this and has paid Mrs I for the wall to be repaired. However in order to get it to accept responsibility, Mrs I said she needed to instruct a contractor to 
report on the cause of the damage.
UKI has said that it accepted responsibility for the wall before Mrs I commissioned the report, 
so it doesnt agree this was necessary or that it should reimburse her for it. But it hasnt 
provided any evidence to show that this was the case. Its said that it accepted responsibility 
in June 2020 and made payment shortly after this. 
However Mrs I has provided a copy of the letter she sent to UKI in December 2019 with the 
findings of her structural engineer report. Off the back of this she provided quotes dated May 
2020 for the repairs. As UKI accept it agreed that the repairs were its responsibility in June 
2020 this is after the report was commissioned and the quotes obtained. And as UKI hasnt 
been able to provide any evidence to prove the contrary, Im persuaded that it changed its 
position and accepted responsibility for the damage to the wall due to Mrs Is expert report. 
Based on this I agree with our investigator that UKI should reimburse Mrs I for the report. I 
also agree it should pay 8% interest from the date of the report to the date settlement is paid 
to make up for the time Mrs I has been without the funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Is complaint. I direct U K Insurance Limited trading 
as Sainsbury's Home Insurance to:
Pay Mrs I £600 compensation.
Reimburse Mrs I for the report showing the cause of the wall collapse.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of the report until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman