DRN-2531741
The complaint
Miss W complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender acted irresponsibly 
when it gave her unaffordable loans.
What happened
This complaint is about nine loans Mr Lender provided to Miss W between March 2015 and 
June 2018. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
loanstart date date repaid instalmentsloan 
amountinstalment 
amount
102/03/2015 07/04/2015 3 £200.00 £125.86
207/04/2015 06/08/2015 6 £400.00 £165.86
306/08/2015 07/01/2016 6 £750.00 £323.00
407/01/2016 18/05/2016 6 £700.00 £279.06
518/05/2016 23/02/2017 12 £1,500.00 £310.63
623/02/2017 08/08/2017 6 £500.00 £255.33
708/08/2017 07/12/2017 6 £550.00 £223.66
807/12/2017 15/06/2018 12 £1,000.00 £219.29
915/06/2018 12 £1,000.00 £215.17
Our adjudicator partly upheld the complaint. He felt he hadnt seen enough to say loans 1 - 2 
shouldnt have been provided. But our adjudicator thought that Mr Lender shouldnt have 
approved any of Miss Ws loan applications from loan 3 onwards. So he set out detailed 
directions showing what he felt Mr Lender should do to put things right.
Mr Lender didn't agree with our adjudicator that all the loans from loan 3 onwards shouldnt 
have been lent. Mainly Mr Lender said the adjudicator appeared to have taken a 'tick box' 
approach when reviewing this case rather than an individual review of Miss Ws financial 
situation. And Mr Lender said it wasnt clear whether our adjudicator had looked at 
everything before coming to his view. 
Mr Lender has asked me to take into account also that it says its not relevant to consider the 
highest repayment versus the net monthly income as the sole reason to uphold a loan. And it 
carried out an expenditure assessment, the results of which showed Miss W could afford the 
repayment on loan 3 along with her priority bills. 
And it believes that by loan 6, fluctuating loan values suggested that Miss W was using the 
loans for their intended purpose  not that she wasnt, as our adjudicator suggested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Im sorry Mr Lender feels our adjudicator didnt investigate the complaint thoroughly or 
explain his view as well as he couldve done. Id like to reassure Mr Lender that Ive looked 
at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our 
adjudicator.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to give the first two loans to Miss W. Looking at the 
amounts Miss W needed to repay, what was apparent about her circumstances at the time, 
and her history with Mr Lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to 
ask her for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. And I havent seen anything in the information it seems that Miss W provided 
or the information Mr Lender shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what she was saying.  
But when Miss W applied for loan 3, she was asking to borrow an amount that was now a 
significant proportion of her take home pay.  
I've taken into account that the monthly repayments decreased each month. And Ive noted 
the reason that Mr Lender recorded for Miss W needing this loan. But this sort of borrowing 
is intended to provide a short-term solution to temporary cash flow problems. Miss W had 
been continuously indebted to Mr Lender for five months in a row  and she was now taking 
out her biggest loan to date, the same day shed repaid her previous loan. I think this 
suggested that she might be starting to rely on this type of borrowing for her cash flow. 
Mr Lenders records indicate it relied on information showing that Miss Ws net income was 
£1,100. 
The monthly repayment she needed to make when she took out this loan (around £323) was 
more than a quarter of her take home pay just for this loan alone  Mr Lender worked this 
figure out at 29%. 
And shed signed up to meet the contractual repayment schedule for this loan for the next 
6 months. 
Taking all this information into account, I think Mr Lender ought to have realised that the 
repayment that Miss W had to make to pay loan 3 would be such a significant proportion of 
her spending money that in reality, this loan (and any further loans) werent likely to be 
sustainably affordable for her.
So I think Mr Lender shouldve declined to provide this loan to Miss W  and stopped lending 
to Miss W at this point. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Miss W, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt have been provided. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:at this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Miss W was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. When she asked for loan 6, she had already been borrowing from 
Mr Lender  without any breaks in lending  for almost two years  
loan 5 was repaid on the same day she took out loan 6 and this was now the fifth 
time in a row that Miss W had taken out new loan the same day the previous loan 
was repaid
so a pattern of dependency was apparent in respect of her lending
Miss W had repaid loans early and the loan amounts had been variable  and they 
continued to go up and down. But to my mind this suggested that Miss Ws finances 
were unstable and she was likely having problems managing her money in a well 
planned way
by now, Mr Lender ought to have known that Miss W was not likely borrowing to 
meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need 
Mr Lender shouldve seen that Miss W wasnt making any real inroads into the 
amount she owed
Mr Lender ought to have realised it was likely that Miss W was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and 
that Miss Ws indebtedness was increasing unsustainably
and I think thats shown to be correct because, from loan 6 onwards, Miss W 
continued to ask Mr Lender to provide loans the same day she repaid existing 
borrowing. And the loan amounts increased over the next couple of loans  
loans 8 and 9 were each for five times the amount Miss W had borrowed when she 
took out her first Mr Lender loan. 
I think that Miss W lost out when Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ws indebtedness by 
allowing her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time .
And the sheer length of time over which Miss W borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 3 through to 9 and Mr Lender should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Miss W, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere particularly if a relationship existed 
between Miss W and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. 
If this wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if she had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss W in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
So heres what Mr Lender needs to do.
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Mr Lender isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss W towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss W which 
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss W as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. 
If this results in Miss W having made overpayments then these should be refunded 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender 
should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay this. Any surplus should be paid to Miss W. However if 
there is still an outstanding balance then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss W.
E. Remove all adverse entries from Miss Ws credit file for loans 3,4 and 5. F. The number of loans taken from the point of loan 6 means any information recorded 
about these loans is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 - 9 should be removed 
from Miss Ws credit file. (adverse information recorded about loan 9 should be 
removed straightaway  the loan itself need only be removed when paid.)
*HMRC requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. If Miss W asks Mr Lender for a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off, Mr Lender should provide this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Miss Ws complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
trading as Mr Lender should pay Miss W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman