DRN-4317433
The complaint
Mr O complains about Bank of Scotland plc.
He says that Bank of Scotland didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of 
two investment scams and would like Bank of Scotland to refund him the money he has lost 
as a result.
What happened
Mr O was looking for an investment opportunity online and entered his details into a website. 
He was contacted by two separate individuals offering investments. One scam was 
supposedly for Platinum Fund (with payments being made to payee HQ), and one was 
funded through cryptocurrency.
Mr O was persuaded to invest in both. I have listed the payments below. The first two 
payments listed are direct payments to a scam, and the following payments to crypto 
exchanges to fund the second scam. 
Date Payee Amount Payment type
26 May 2020 HQ £225.10 Card payment
28 May 2020 HQ £1,798.07 Card payment
3 August 2020 MP £358.10 Card payment
17 August 2020 MP £2.392.04 Card payment
2 September 2020 B £3,744.20 Card payment
14 September 2020 B £86.20 Card payment
14 September 2020 B £239.01 Card payment
Total £8,842.72
However, Mr O then realised he had been the victim of a scam  and complained to Bank of 
Scotland. He said that Bank of Scotland failed to protect him from the scams and that while 
he didnt deny authorising the payments, that Bank of Scotland should have known that he 
was dealing with a scammer and intervened.
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold his complaint  so Mr O brought his complaint to this Service. 
Our Investigator considered things but didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr O asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for him, so Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute here that Mr O has been the victim of a scam and has lost a significant 
amount of money as a result. However, even when it is clear that a scam has taken place, 
and an individual has been tricked out of their money, it doesnt necessarily follow that a 
business will need to refund the money that has been lost.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider Bank 
of Scotland should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Bank of Scotland acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr O when he authorised payments from his account or whether it could and 
should have done more before processing them. 
Did Bank of Scotland act fairly and reasonably in Mr Os case?
In my opinion, the payments in question just werent sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or 
suspicious to reasonably say Bank of Scotland should not have processed them without first 
getting in touch with Mr O to ensure they were legitimate and not related to a scam. The 
values of the individual transactions were not particularly high  and spread out over a 
significant period of time. And when compared with Mr Os normal account activity, they do 
not stand out as unusual, as there were other payments for similar amounts being made on 
the account. 
And while I understand that the second scam involved payments to legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchanges  it should be noted that not all payments made for crypto are a result of a scam. 
In this case, I dont think where the payments were headed ought to have automatically 
triggered Bank of Scotlands attention.
Considering all of this, as Bank of Scotland didnt interact with Mr O prior to the payments 
being made, and I think the payments werent so unusual that they ought to have contacted 
him prior to them being processed, I dont think they missed an opportunity to prevent the 
payments before they were sent.Recovery of the payments
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Bank of Scotland to do 
anything further until it had been notified there was a scam. 
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card 
would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are 
resolved between card issuers (here, Bank of Scotland) and the merchants involved, (here, 
HQ, MP and B).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would likely never have been successful. 
The payments that were made to HQ for the Platinum Fund would only be able to be 
returned via chargeback if Mr O could provide specific evidence under the VISA chargeback 
rules  which I dont think Mr O would be able to provide.
And a chargeback in respect of the payments made to MP and B would also be very unlikely 
to succeed. This is because MP and B are legitimate crypto exchanges and provided the 
services that Mr O requested of them  which was the purchase of crypto. The subsequent 
transfer of the crypto to a different wallet is therefore a separate matter. 
I do have sympathy for the situation that Mr O has found himself in  he has been cruelly 
scammed out of money. However, the loss that he has suffered is ultimately caused by the 
scammers themselves  not Bank of Scotland. And I cant ask Bank of Scotland to refund 
this loss to Mr O when I dont think that it has done anything wrong
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman