DRN-4476061
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (Casualty)
declined to cover a claim for her dogs illness, under her pet insurance policy.
Mrs N is represented by Mr N in her complaint. Ill refer to Mrs N for ease.
What happened
Mrs N says Casualty is refusing to cover the costs of treatment for a new diagnosis of kidney
failure for her pet dog. This is because of infrequent mild instances of urinary leaking, which
has previously been successfully treated. She says the urinary leaking is unrelated to the
kidney failure.
Mrs N says she has had to pay for the treatment related to her dogs kidney disease. She
says Casualty should cover these costs in full.
In its final complaint response Casualty says Mrs Ns policy commenced in September 2021.
It provided her policy terms that confirmed no cover for any condition that was pre-existing or
had shown clinical signs of existence in any form prior to the policy inception. It says Mrs Ns
dog was treated for urinary incontinence in 2018, 2020 and 2021.
In July 2022 Casualty says a urine sample was taken to see if there were underlying
problems connected to Mrs Ns dogs bed wetting. No abnormalities were found.
In January 2023 Casualty says a further urine test confirmed chronic kidney disease. It says
Mrs Ns vet advised this could be due to the concurrent use of medication her dog had been
taking. Casualty says it declined the claim due to consistent signs and symptoms of urination
prior to the policy start date. It acknowledges a known correlation between spaying and
incontinence but says this hadnt been confirmed in Mrs Ns dogs clinical records. It says
spaying was performed in 2015 and urination issues werent noted by the vet until 2018.
Casualty says it also applied an exclusion on the policy backdated to 27 September 2021 for
growths, tumours and resulting conditions. This was because of a clinical note from March
2021 that detailed a wart on Mrs Ns dogs spine.
Mrs N didnt think Casualty had treated her fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She says incontinence had been recorded in the
clinical notes prior to the policy starting, which is a sign of chronic kidney disease. She didnt
think Casualty had behaved unfairly by considering the kidney disease to be pre-existing and
decline Mrs Ns claim under its policy terms.
Mrs N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. Its been passed to
me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Ns complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about Mrs Ns dogs illness. I understand this must be very upsetting
for her. Having carefully considered the matter, my intention is to uphold her complaint.
In its letter to Mrs N in January 2023 Casualty set out its reason for declining her claim. It
says that on reviewing her dogs clinical history it found consultations with a vet that
wouldve affected her cover, had it been made aware. It listed five occasions between July
2018 and December 2020 when a vet was consulted in relation to urination issues. It also
highlights a consultation on 16 March 2021 when Mrs Ns dog was examined and a Warty
type mass at lumbar spine was reported.
Casualty says had it known about this clinical history, at the time Mrs Ns policy incepted, it
wouldve imposed the following exclusions:
Urinary system with effect from 27 September 2021.
Anything to do with the Growths, tumours and resulting conditions with effect from 27
September 2021
The business says the kidney condition Mrs N had claimed for wouldve been excluded had
it been aware of her dogs full clinical history.
I note Mrs Ns comments that the occasional and minor urinary leaking her dog was treated
for in 2018 was due to a routine hysterectomy. And that the symptoms were cured with
medication. Mrs N says she has kept dogs for over 25 years so understood she wouldnt be
covered for any further claims for urinary incontinence. However, previous treatment for
urinary incontinence shouldnt exclude newly diagnosed renal failure from cover.
Mrs N says the occasional incontinence issue, although related to the urinary tract, is an
unrelated entirely separate condition from that of renal failure. She also says the exclusion
Casualty applied as a result of a small skin wart, is completely unacceptable. She says this
was an incidental finding, requiring no treatment and has since, almost completely
disappeared.
I can see that Casualty emailed Mrs N in response to her disputing its decline decision. It
told her incontinence is a commonly seen symptom of chronic kidney disease and that her
dog had shown signs of this throughout its life. It says its unable to disassociate between
the symptoms and the diagnosis. It also says that Mrs Ns dog was possibly suffering from
an undiagnosed condition that can be cancerous, given the identification of the skin mass.
This is why it couldnt provide cover for growths and tumours going forward.
Ive read Mrs Ns policy terms to understand what the policy covered. The terms say:
Pre-Existing Condition Means any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated
Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any
form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
And:
What is not insured?Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition;
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms
before Your Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period
Also, under, Section 11  General Exclusions the terms say:
If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these Pre-
Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
Casualty says its claim handler referred Mrs Ns dogs condition to its in-house veterinary
specialist whose medical opinion it relied on when declining her claim. However, Mrs N
doesnt think incontinence symptoms due to intermittent hormone issues, should mean that
chronic kidney disease is excluded from her policy cover.
Ive read the clinical notes for Mrs Ns dog. I can see the occasions between May 2018 and
January 2021 when her dog was treated for incontinence. On these occasions there is no
mention of kidney disease. A record from 1 July 2022 says Mrs Ns dog was taken to the vet
having urinated in bed overnight. The notes say:
..need urine sample to deterine [sic] if we are dealing with an underlying problems (DM,
Cushings, Renal)
And:
urine result NAD, so if OK on [current medication] > just contue daily doseing for life
Casualty acknowledges that the clinical notes show no abnormalities were found in the urine
test. And it was advised that Mrs Ns dog should continue on the existing medication. The
diagnosis of chronic kidney disease was made later in January 2023.
Ive thought about whether its fair for Casualty to impose the exclusion it did relating to Mrs
Ns dogs kidney disease. I dont think it was. Casualty has relied on an exclusion for pre-
existing conditions. This means the onus is on it to show these conditions were present
before Mrs N took out her policy. Ive considered the information it provided, including the
comments from its in-house vet. But Im not persuaded its shown that the conditions
excluded are the same conditions that had been seen in the past. As above, kidney disease
was ruled out July 2022. And there is no mention of kidney problems prior to the diagnosis in
January 2023.
Casualty has applied exclusions that include anything to do with the urinary system and all
growths and tumours. It appears to rely on the following policy term when applying these
exclusions:
Any claim where You have failed to disclose Your pets full medical history; or where Your
pet has suffered from a Condition, whether or not Treatment was received; and You failed to
disclose this information to Us at inception of Your Policy, and if it had been disclosed to Us,
We would have applied an endorsement to Your Policy in respect of that Condition.
Its for Casualty to show that this term applies. In the event that Mrs N has made a
misrepresentation, the relevant law I have to consider is the Consumer Insurance Disclosure
and Representations Act (CIDRA). Under CIDRA Casualty must show that Mrs N made a
misrepresentation in the information provided at the inception of her policy. Mrs N must take
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. Casualty hasnt shown what it asked Mrs
N or what her responses were. So, it hasnt shown that she made a misrepresentation.If it were the case that Mrs N did make a misrepresentation, Casualty would need to show
that without the misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover at all or would only have
done so on different terms. It hasnt demonstrated through its established underwriting
criteria that this is the case here.
If Casualty considers Mrs N made a qualifying misrepresentation, it has to act in line with the
CIDRA rules. However, based on what Ive read it hasnt reasonably shown that the
condition being claimed for was pre-existing, or that there was a misrepresentation that
allowed it to add the wide-ranging exclusions it has.
Having considered all of this, I dont think Casualty treated Mrs N fairly when declining her
claim and adding the exclusions it did. It should now settle the claim and pay Mrs N the costs
she paid for her dogs treatment as covered by her policy terms. Casualty should pay 8%
simple interest from the date payment was made until it refunds this amount. It should also
remove the exclusions it applied to Mrs Ns policy.
Ive thought about the impact this had on Mrs N. Her dog was very ill, which caused her
distress. This was made worse when Casualty unfairly declined her claim. It should pay
compensation to acknowledge the impact it actions had on Mrs N. I think £250 is fair.
I said I was intending to uphold Mrs Ns complaint and Casualty should:
settle Mrs Ns claim and pay 8% simple interest from the date she paid the treatment
costs until the payment is provided;
remove the policy exclusions; and
pay £250 compensation for the distress it caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mrs N responded to say she had nothing further to add. 
Casualty responded to say it had referred this case to its in-house vet. The response 
provided by the vet says that its more than reasonable to link long term steroid usage with 
chronic kidney disease, as the treating vet in this case has suggested. The vet provided 
reference to a study in support of this point and says essentially steroids will significantly 
worsen or exacerbate proteinuria in dogs. The vet says the claim was correctly declined in 
line with the policy wording. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that Casualtys further comments warrant a change to 
my provisional findings. 
In my provisional decision I said that as Casualty had relied on an exclusion for pre-existing 
conditions it was up to it to show these conditions were present before Mrs N took out her 
policy. I said Id considered Casualtys in-house vets comments along with the clinical 
records. But I wasnt persuaded that itd shown the conditions it had excluded were the same 
conditions that had been seen in the past. I highlighted that kidney disease was ruled out in 
July 2022. And there was no mention of kidney problems prior to the diagnosis in 2023.Ive thought carefully about Casualtys in-house vets further comments. But I dont think this 
shows that the conditions Casualty excluded were present at the time Mrs N took out her 
policy, for the reasons Ive already explained. I note no comment has been made in relation 
to the other exclusion Casualty applied. 
In my provisional decision I said the relevant law here was CIDRA and Casualty must show 
that Mrs N made a misrepresentation in the information provided at the inception of her 
policy. I said Casualty hadnt shown what it asked Mrs N or what her responses were. This 
meant it hadnt shown that shed made a misrepresentation. I also said it hadnt shown that it 
wouldnt have offered cover, or offered cover on different terms, if a misrepresentation had 
occurred. 
In its further submissions Casualty hasnt commented on this point or shown that Mrs N 
made a misrepresentation. If it could show this was the case then it would need to act in line 
with the CIDRA rules. As I said in my provisional decision, I cant see that it has. Based on 
this Im not persuaded that my findings need to change. So, my provisional decision will now 
become my final decision.      
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ns 
complaint. Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd should:
settle Mrs Ns claim and pay 8% simple interest* from the date she paid the treatment
costs until the payment is provided;
remove the policy exclusions; and
pay £250 compensation for the distress it caused.
*If Casualty considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs N how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs N a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman