DRN-3160524
The complaint
Miss E complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund money she lost following her 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Miss E has told us that in May 2020 she fell victim to a scam.
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
Miss E has told us she was approached by a friend about an investment opportunity, 
involving Forex trading. Miss Es friend had told her he had been investing with a company 
for a few months and the performance had been positive. Miss Es friend was able to show 
her the trading platform he was using, which included details of his trading history and profit 
and loss.
At the time Miss E has said she was going through a difficult time and was particularly 
interested, as she felt the opportunity may help her with her financial circumstances. Miss E 
has told us she found the companys website online and saw that it appeared to be regulated 
in Canada. Shes said she was also provided details of a Customer Support Manager 
contact at the company, who confirmed the company was registered and, alongside being 
regulated in Canada, had an application submitted to also become regulated in the UK.
Believing this to be a genuine investment opportunity Miss E went ahead and, in May 2020, 
started to deposit money into the trading account that had been set up for her. Miss E initially 
funded the payments from an account she held with another bank. Miss E has said that she 
had access to the trading account and was able to deposit/withdraw funds and view her 
transaction history.
On 2 June 2020, Miss E made a further deposit into her trading account, but this time used 
her Wise Payments account, which shes said she usually used to receive funds from a 
family member. Miss E went ahead and made the following payments using her Wise 
Payments account;
Date Amount
2/6/2020 €2,719.37
1/9/2020 $4,995.00
Miss E has said that her trading account was showing a profit and she was allowed to make  
the following withdrawals from her trading account;
- 16/7/2020 £4,412.81 (credited to an account Miss E held with another bank)
- 10/8/2020 £4,857.91 (credited to an account Miss E held with another bank)
- 28/8/2020 £2,980.00 (credited to Miss Es Wise Payments account)
But she became suspicious when another friend compared the activity on the company 
against other brokers graphs and realised the details were being manipulated. 
Miss E complained to Wise Payments. In summary she said when the payments were made, 
she didnt receive any warnings and she believes Wise Payments should have flagged that 
she was sending money internationally. 
Wise Payments looked into things and issued its final response on 3 November 2020. It 
didnt uphold Miss Es complaint, it said the responsibility of ensuring the legitimacy of the 
recipient lies with the sender of the payments, in this case Miss E. It added that it didnt 
consider it could be held liable for unforeseeable losses. 
Unhappy with the response, Miss E brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things, but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, our investigator 
concluded that Wise Payments ought to have identified the second payment Miss E made 
was unusual, due to it being a higher payment than she had made before. So, she thought 
Wise Payment ought to have contacted Miss E before allowing the payment to be 
progressed. 
But our investigator wasnt persuaded that it would have made a difference, as she thought 
Miss E would have had enough information at the time to think she was dealing with a 
legitimate company. So even if Wise Payments had of intervened and asked further 
questions about the payment, our investigator thought Miss E would have wanted to proceed 
in making it. She thought Miss E would have been able to answer any questions plausibly, 
so that Wise Payments wouldnt have had any concerns or suspicions about the payment.
Miss E didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary she disagreed with the 
assumption that she would have continued with the payment. She added that she would 
have taken any warning or concern raised by Wise Payments very seriously.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
I accept that these were authorised transactions even though Miss E was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She authorised the payments and under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
Payments should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive thought carefully about Wise Payments obligations. In this case, I need to decide 
whether Wise Payments acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss E, when Miss E 
made the transfers to a fraudster and when she reported the fraud, or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
So, Ive thought about whether the transfers Miss E made were out of character and 
unusual. I cant fairly say that the first transaction Miss E made was so unusual or suspicious 
in comparison to her usual account activity, it ought to have alerted Wise Payments that 
Miss E may have been at risk of financial harm. I say that as a customer funding an account 
specifically to make international payments, as happened here, is unlikely to have stood out 
as being remarkable, suspicious or unusual activity to Wise Payments and is broadly in line 
with what it would expect to see from a customer. And Im mindful, from the statements Ive 
seen of Miss Es account, she has made outgoing payments internationally from this account 
previously. 
Our investigator thought the second payment was unusual and ought to have led Wise 
Payments to intervene. But in the circumstances of this case, I think it is finely balanced as 
to whether Wise Payments ought to have intervened. The second payment, for $4,995, 
appears higher than any amount Miss E has paid previously. But I also have to consider that 
in the six months leading up to the scam, Miss E appears to have used the account 
infrequently, so there is only a limited transaction history for Wise Payments to compare this 
payment against. Im also mindful that the service Wise Payments provides is quite typically 
aimed at sending funds abroad, so I dont think the fact this was an international payment 
would, in and of itself, have alerted Wise Payments that Miss E may have been at risk of 
financial harm.
But even if I considered Wise Payments should have intervened at the point Miss E made 
the second payment, which as Ive said is finely balanced, I dont think it would have made a 
difference and I think it more likely than not Miss E would have continued to make the 
payment. I should be clear that I cant know for certain how events wouldve transpired if 
Wise Payments had handled things differently. I must reach a conclusion on the balance of 
probabilities and that conclusion must be informed by the available evidence.
Having considered this carefully, Im not persuaded that a proportionate intervention by Wise 
Payments wouldve prevented the scam from taking place. While it is now known with the benefit of hindsight that Miss E was being exploited by a fraudster, I dont think its more 
likely than not that a Wise Payments employee would have been able to identify that Miss E 
may have been at risk of financial harm, by asking her questions about the investment.
If Wise Payments had spoken to Miss E, at the point she attempted to make the payment of 
$4,995, Ive no reason to doubt that she would have told it the purpose of the payment was 
to invest.
With this in mind Id have expected Wise Payments to ask Miss E some further questions 
about the payment, in the context of the particular features of an investment scam. For 
example, it could have asked questions such as, but not limited to, what the payment was 
for, whether Miss E had been looking to invest, what research had she done, whether she 
had been cold called and what rate of return she was being offered. Had it asked these, or 
similar questions, Im persuaded Miss E would have been able to confidently answer these 
questions without concerning Wise Payments that she might be at risk of financial harm or 
the victim of a scam.
I say that as Miss E hadnt been cold called and the investment had been recommended to 
her by a friend. She had also seen the platform that was being used and the profits that were 
being made. Alongside this Miss E, at the time she was making the second payment through 
her Wise Payments account, had already made withdrawals from her trading account  with 
some of the funds crediting her Wise Payments account. Im also mindful that Miss E would 
have been able to explain that shed carried out research and had satisfied herself that the 
firm she was dealing with was regulated by Canadian authorities, as well as informing Wise 
Payments that she had reviewed the companys website and the services it provided.
Im persuaded, on balance, its more likely than not the answers Miss E is likely to have 
given would have been sufficient to reassure Wise Payments that she wasnt at risk of 
financial harm. From the information Ive seen and considering the circumstances of what 
was happening, Im persuaded its more likely than not Miss E would have been confident 
she was making a payment to invest in what seemed like a legitimate source.
The final point Ive considered is whether Wise Payments acted quickly enough to recover 
the funds once it was notified of the scam. It contacted the receiving bank, but I cant see 
that it ever received a response to its requests and it hasnt been able to recover any funds. 
Given some time had passed between Miss E making the transfers and realising it was a 
scam, even if the receiving bank had responded, it seems very unlikely that any of Miss Es 
money would have remained. I say this as typically, fraudsters will more often than not move 
money on very quickly after the payments have been made. So, on balance I think Wise 
Payments have taken reasonable steps to try and recover the money.
Its very unfortunate Miss E has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting for her and I dont underestimate her strength of 
feeling. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Wise Payments 
should have done more to prevent Miss E from losing this money. So, I dont think it would 
be fair for me to ask Wise Payments to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Wise Payments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 Stephen Wise
Ombudsman