DRN-3034876
The complaint
Miss A complains that a car she purchased with the assistance of finance from Toyota 
Financial Services (UK) plc (TFS) isnt of satisfactory quality and it has been very difficult 
and inconvenient to arrange repairs.
What happened
Miss A bought a used Audi car from a Toyota dealership on 25 July 2020. Miss A said that 
around the end of September the car began juddering on acceleration and she was 
concerned about driving it. Miss A stopped driving the car. Miss A had purchased an 
extended warranty from Toyota and tried to get the car repaired in a Toyota garage.
Miss A explains that the two Toyota garages she spoke to said they could not work on an 
Audi car. Miss A made a number of calls to the supplying dealership and to TFS to complain 
about the faults with the car and to try and arrange a repair.
The car was inspected by an Audi garage who carried out a repair to the gearbox to fix the 
juddering issue under warranty. There were a number of other issues discovered with the 
car and Miss A said that she had lost faith in the car and wanted to reject it. 
TFS did not accept Miss As complaint and stated that the car had been fully inspected 
before it was supplied to her. TFS said that the other items that Miss A complained about 
were wear and tear items and should be expected on a car of this age and mileage.
Miss A brought her complaint to this service and our investigator looked into her concerns. 
They thought that TFS could have done more to assist Miss A in getting the faults rectified. 
They didnt think that TFS should pay for the other repairs identified as these were wear and 
tear. They thought that TFS should refund Miss A two monthly instalments to reflect the 
period that she was without the car and to pay her £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Miss A agreed 
TFS didnt agree and said that it shouldnt have to pay for the costs of keeping Miss A mobile 
when it wasnt aware of the problem prior to the repair. It said that Miss A had covered the 
contractual mileage. It said that the warranty was supplied by the dealership and so Miss A 
should take up her complaint with them. 
TFS asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are well known to the parties and so I wont repeat them in detail in this decision. 
Instead Ill concentrate on giving reasons for my conclusions.
TFS, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Miss A - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality at that 
time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the 
price that was paid for it.
There was clearly an issue with the car which caused a juddering. As the fault presented 
within the first six months of ownership it is likely that the fault was there or developing when 
the car was supplied to Miss A and so the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Under the 
relevant regulations TFS are allowed one opportunity to fix the car. It appears that a 
successful repair was undertaken by the Audi garage under the manufacturers warranty.
Miss A telephoned TFS to explain about the problem with the car in mid-September 2020. I 
dont doubt the customer when she states that she called TFS and spoke to an agent who 
promised to call her back. There are notes from the business which detail a call from Miss A 
on the 21 September 2020 where she explains there is a fault on the car, and she is having 
difficulty getting a repair organised under the warranty she had purchased because the 
Toyota garages dont cover her Audi. TFS advised Miss A to write to the dealership setting 
out her concerns and to come back to them if there is a problem. 
I dont agree that TFS didnt know about the problem until after the car was repaired. Miss A 
made TFS aware that there was a problem with the car, and she needed a repair. TFS 
essentially told Miss A to go back to the dealership and made no effort to address her 
concerns. Miss A continued to struggle to get the dealership to deal with the fault and the 
repairs were not carried out until early November. As the supplier of the car TFS is equally 
responsible and so I think that it should refund Miss A the two monthly instalments that she 
was unable to drive the car. I note what TFS says about the mileage covered but Miss A was 
only able to cover around 2000 miles between the end of July and the beginning of 
November. So, I dont think she had full use of the car because of the fault. 
Miss A has confirmed that the juddering is now fixed. I agree with the investigator that the 
other items identified such as the tyres and the windscreen wipers are wear and tear items 
and TFS isnt responsible for these costs. Miss A has said that she agrees with the 
investigators conclusions about this, so I dont think I need to say anything further.
As far as the warranty is concerned, although Miss A had difficulty getting a repair organised 
it appears that a repair was carried out at no cost to Miss A. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that the warranty could not be used should the car develop a further fault. So, I cant 
say that this was mis-sold or that TFS needs to do anything more about this. 
I agree with the investigator that Miss A has experienced trouble and upset and TFS should 
pay £100 to reflect this inconvenience. TFS has agreed that this is fair and so I dont think I 
need to address this further. 
Putting things right
To put things right TFS should:
Refund Miss A two contractual monthly instalments.
Pay Miss A £100. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc 
should put things right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman