DRN-3546364
The complaint
Mr C complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited is unfairly trying to recover from him 
costs it paid out to settle third-party motor insurance claims.
What happened
In May 2017 Mr C was involved in a collision. The car he was driving collided with four 
parked cars. At least one pedestrian was injured. Mr C was found to be over the drink drive 
limit. He pleaded guilty to a drink driving charge. 
His insurer, Admiral, said he had breached the drink driving terms of his policy. So it said it 
wouldn't cover the damage to his vehicle and he would be liable for any third-party costs. In 
June 2017 Admiral asked Mr C to consent to it act on his behalf when negotiating the third-
party claims. He didnt provide consent. However, Admiral went on to deal with the claims 
anyway. 
In February 2021 Admiral informed Mr C it was seeking reimbursement of third-party costs of 
about £38,000. He wasnt happy with that so complained. He felt Admiral hadnt 
communicated with him about the matter properly.
In June 2021 Admiral responded. It said it was obliged by the Road Traffic Act to deal with 
the third-party claims. It said it had updated him appropriately, providing necessary 
information about the claims, without breaching data protection rules. It accepted it had 
failed to provide details of his policy terms when he requested. However, it said he hadnt 
lost out as a result.     
Mr C wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He feels the costs Admiral are trying to recover 
are incorrect and unfair. He wants a reduction to reflect fair valuations of the cars involved 
and to recognise the impact of Admirals poor communication with him during the claim. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. He felt it was fair for Admiral to refuse to cover 
damage to Mr C's vehicle. He also thought it acted reasonably by settling the third-party 
claims and seeking to recover those costs from Mr C. So he didn't recommend Admiral do 
anything differently. Mr C didn't accept that outcome, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service, I havent addressed here every point or piece of information 
provided for this complaint. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues and 
evidence. However, Id like to reassure Mr C and Admiral that I have considered everything 
provided. 
Mr Cs policy says if an accident happens whilst he is found to be over the legal limit for 
alcohol or is driving whilst unfit through drink, no cover will be provided and liability will be 
restricted to meeting the obligations required by road traffic law. It adds that in those 
circumstances Admiral will recover from Mr C all sums paid (including legal costs), whether 
in settlement or under a judgement, for any claim arising from the accident.  
As far as Im aware, Mr C pleaded guilty to a drink driving charge. So considering the above 
term it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to deny cover for the accident. Admiral says it 
was obliged by law to settle the third-party claims. Mr C refused to sign a consent and 
indemnity form (allowing Admiral sole discretion to deal with the claims). It says it went on to 
negotiate and settle them under assignment and agreement with the third parties. 
Ive considered how Admiral has dealt with these claims. Considering road traffic laws I cant 
say its decision to deal with the claims was unfair or reasonable. I cant see that Mr Cs lost 
out financially, or otherwise, because of Admiral doing so. Im not persuaded Mr C would 
likely have ended up with lower total costs after having arranged his own legal 
representation. And considering the policy terms I cant say its decision to try to recover 
costs from him is unfair. 
According to Mr C he shouldnt be found fully liable for the incident. He hasnt explained in 
any detail why he feels that. It seems his car collided with some parked cars whilst he was 
over the legal alcohol limit. Based on that I cant say Admirals decision to consider him fully 
at fault is unfair or unreasonable. 
Ive considered the information provided on the settlements. Im not going to go into detail 
about each of the different claims. But overall I cant say Admiral didnt make reasonable 
efforts to contest the claims or that it settled any unfairly. So Im not going to require it to 
reduce or amend the amount its seeking to recover from Mr C. 
I will address a couple of issues Mr Cs raised. Admirals explained to him why it settled a 
personal injury at approximately £5,000. It said that amount includes legal and medical fees. 
Its further explained that the pedestrian was diagnosed with injuries with a recovery period.  
Mr Cs also raised concern at the settlement of a claim for loss to a third-party taxi. An 
engineers report valued the taxi at about £1,500 but Admiral settled for closer to £4,500 in 
total. Its provided evidence and information from the third-party insurer explaining why the 
original settlement was inadequate. 
In summary, the replacement taxi was required to meet certain conditions and standards set 
by the relevant taxi licencing authority. The original settlement was considered inadequate to 
achieve those.  Ive also seen information to support hire charges Admiral settled for a 
replacement taxi required whilst the claim was ongoing. 
Another vehicle was valued at about £1,700. Mr Cs asked why Admiral settled that claim for 
about £4,300. Admirals explained the settlement figure is for hire car charges. It says it 
hasnt yet settled the damage to the car as its awaiting information from the insurer. Overall, 
based on what Ive seen, I cant say Admirals settled the claims unfairly or unreasonably.  
Mr Cs unhappy with the information Admirals provided to him about its settlement of the 
various third-party claims. Having considered whats been provided Im not going to require it 
to send Mr C any further information. As Ive said, Im not persuaded Admiral hasnt taken 
reasonable steps to contest the claims  or settled any unfairly. Mr C says the drink drive clause wasnt highlighted to him when he took out the cover. But 
even if it had been, I think its unlikely to have made a difference. In my experience most 
policies feature a similar term. So its unlikely Mr C would have found a policy that covered 
him when found to be above the legal limit for alcohol at the time of an incident. And I cant 
reasonably say that had he been more aware of the term that he wouldnt have gone on to 
drink drive and be involved in the collision. He will have already been aware its unlawful to 
drive after having consumed a certain amount of alcohol. 
Mr C feels Admirals communication with him wasnt good enough. Admiral says as he didnt 
sign the consent form it wasnt able to provide him with full updates, but it did inform him of 
significant developments. I dont think, in the circumstances, its communication was 
inadequate. And I cant see that Mr C lost out because of Admiral mistakenly sending some 
information to an incorrect address. He received that same information fairly soon after. 
So in conclusion I dont think Admiral has acted unfairly. Im not going to interfere in its 
decision to refuse Mr Cs claim or try to recover its outlay on the third-party claims. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman