DRN-2460212
The complaint
Mr S complains about the amount that he has been charged by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited for damage to a car that had been supplied to him under a hire 
purchase agreement.
 
What happened
Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement in March 2016 for a car. The terms of the 
agreement provided for 48 monthly repayments of £300 with an optional final payment due 
at the end of the agreement. Mr S decided to hand the car back at the end of the agreement.
The car was collected on 23 March 2020. Following collection Mr S was advised of a number 
of charges arising out of damage to the car and missing documents. Some of the charges 
have been removed and some are agreed by Mr S. Mr S disputes the charges for the 
missing literature pack and the amount charged for damage to the alloy wheel and tyre.
Mercedes-Benz say that these items are properly charged for and fall outside the guidelines 
for normal wear and tear. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Having 
reviewed photographs of the damage they thought that the items were properly charged for.
Mr S didnt agree and replied to say in summary that he specifically recalls handing the 
literature pack to the collection agent and the amounts charged for the wheel and tyre are 
excessive. Mr S said that as a result of recent events he is in financial difficulty and offered 
£100 to settle the complaint.
As the parties havent been able to agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them here. Instead Ill focus on 
giving reasons for my decision. Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory as some of it 
is here, I have to decide what is more likely in the circumstances.
Looking at the agreement signed by Mr S I can see that directly below Mr Ss signature are 
the following terms:
if the vehicle is returned to us at any stage, it will be in good and clean condition and have 
been at all times properly services/maintained/repaired in accordance with the contract 
terms. If you do not look after the vehicle properly, and we suffer loss as a result, you will 
have to compensate us. You should particularly note the following points:
Damage
You will maintain the vehicle in a condition which is consistent with the attached Vehicle 
Return Standards which form part of this agreement.
Mr S was provided with a copy of the vehicle standards and it was made clear to him that if 
the car was returned with damage outside these standards a charge would be raised.
I appreciate that Mr S says he handed over the literature pack to the collection agents. There 
isnt any photographic evidence to support what he says and on balance I think it is more 
likely that the car was returned without the literature pack. I dont think that Mercedes would 
raise a charge if the literature pack was present.
I note that although the tread on the tyre may have been road legal, it has damage in the 
form of a gouge which is outside the vehicle return standards and therefore a charge for a 
replacement is fair. I appreciate that Mr S says that a replacement tyre would only cost £100 
but Mercedes are entitled to raise a fair charge for this item and not shop around for the 
cheapest tyres. I dont think that the charge is unfair or excessive.
Looking at the photographs for the damaged alloy I agree that this is outside fair wear and 
tear as there is damage to the spokes of the alloy and it is fair for a charge to be raised.   
I appreciate that my decision will be a disappointment to Mr S. I understand that he is now 
experiencing financial difficulties and I would expect Mercedes Benz to work with Mr S to set 
up an affordable repayment plan for the costs outstanding. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman