DRN-4341035
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account and didnt credit 
his points. Hed like compensation for the time it has taken to resolve this complaint and the 
points returned.
What happened
Mr M had a credit card account with Creation. The card earned points that could be 
exchanged for hotel stays or experiences.
Mr M received a letter on 30 September 2021 which said his credit card would close on 
3 December 2021.
Mr M has said that Creation didnt transfer the 113 rewards points to his account which he 
had earned in October 2021 statement.
Mr M complained to Creation. He was dissatisfied with their response, so he complained to 
our service.
After Mr M brought the complaint to our service, Creation made an offer. They offered to 
transfer the 113 reward points to Mr M. Mr M didnt accept the offer. He said he had spent a 
long-time chasing Creation and wanted to be compensated for his time.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought the offer to credit Mr Ms 
points was fair. She didnt award any compensation for the time Mr M had spent pursuing 
the complaint. She said our service didnt award compensation for the time taken to pursue a 
complaint. She thought Mr M had been put back in the position he would have been in had 
things gone right- so she thought Creation had done enough.
Mr M disagreed with the view he said he had spent over 20 hours pursuing the complaint 
and wanted to be compensated for his time. He said Creation had behaved in a manner 
completely unacceptable for a regulated financial business and this sent out a poor message 
about what a regulated business can do.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M hasnt specifically complained that his account was closed by Creation. 
However, as part of my review I have considered if Creation acted fairly and in line with the 
terms of the account when it decided to close the account. Having done so Im satisfied 
Creation closed the account fairly and relied on its terms and conditions to do so.
Mr Ms main issue is regarding the points that he earned in October 2021 statement which 
he said he was entitled to. Creation made an offer to credit Mr M with 113 points that he 
earned in October 2021 statement. Mr M didnt accept the offer as he thought he should also 
be entitled to compensation. 
I have considered the offer to credit Mr M with the 113 points and I think this is fair in the 
circumstances. These points were credited to Mr M in April 2023.
Compensation
Mr M believes he should receive compensation for the time he has spent pursuing this 
complaint which he estimates to be around 20 hours over the course of two years.
I appreciate that Mr M has spent time pursuing this complaint and it has been a frustrating 
time for him. However, as the investigator has said we dont award compensation for the 
time a customer spends pursuing their complaint. 
Mr M is suggesting that if we dont award compensation then it sends a poor message about 
what a regulated business can do. I accept that its frustrating to have to pursue a complaint, 
but Mr M is really saying we should punish Creation for the way they have treated him. 
However, it isnt our role to punish businesses. We only consider what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of a particular case. Whilst I can appreciate Mr Ms frustration and his 
point of view, this is a matter for the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
not this service. So, if he is concerned, he should consult the FCA.
Mr Ms real point is he wants compensation to resolve this matter. Hes pointed out that hes 
spent time and effort trying to resolve his complaint. He has estimated about 20 hours of his 
time over the course of two years. Hes said he has waited a long time for things to be sorted 
out and had to go to the trouble of bringing his complaint to this service.
I should explain that our awards are designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and upset 
caused to the consumer by something a financial business did wrong. We are not here to 
punish financial businesses. Nor can we award compensation as a means of punishing a 
business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service. Mr M has asked to be 
compensated for the time hes spent dealing with his complaint. But Id need to be satisfied 
that hes lost out and been caused more than the usual inconvenience of pursuing a 
complaint by not having his complaint resolved sooner. And on balance, I cant say this is 
the case. Therefore, I wont be awarding any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman