DRN-3805696
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined their claim for storm 
damage under their home insurance policy.
The buildings and contents insurance policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill 
just refer to Mr M throughout my decision.
What happened
Part of Mr Ms flat felt roof covering was blown from the roof during a storm. He had an 
emergency repair done and claimed under his policy for a permanent repair. 
Around six weeks later, QICs field surveyor attended to inspect the damage and took photos 
of the roof using a pole camera. During the visit, Mr M confirmed that the roof had been 
replaced within the last ten years and the surveyor asked him to send in evidence. 
The following month, QICs in-house surveyor inspected the photos. The surveyor concluded 
that the flat roof was in poor condition and the felt edges had de-bonded, so the damage 
was more likely to be due to gradual deterioration than the storm. QIC declined Mr Ms claim.
Mr M complained to QIC because he didnt think it was fair to rely on photos of the damage 
without carrying out a physical inspection of the roof. He didnt agree that the roof was in 
poor condition and pointed out that the rest of his home was in excellent condition.
QIC sent Mr M its final response, repeating its view that the damage was caused mainly by 
gradual deterioration, and saying that at around ten years old, the roof was near the end of 
its expected lifespan.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think QIC had declined the claim fairly. She said it was reasonable to 
rely on the field surveyors report which stated the roof was in fair condition. Our investigator 
recommended that QIC settle the claim and pay Mr M for the emergency repair plus 8% 
simple interest.
QIC didnt agree. It repeated its view of the evidence provided by its in-house surveyor and 
pointed out that the field surveyor hadnt accepted the claim. QIC remained of the view that 
the main cause of damage was wear and tear and gradual deterioration.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
When considering a claim for storm damage, I ask three questions:
Was there a storm?
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by a storm?
The first two questions are not in dispute. QIC agreed there was a storm with winds at 55 
mph. And winds of this intensity can cause roof damage.
So, Ill focus on the final question.
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by a storm?
QIC relied on its in-house surveyors report to decline the claim. It said the flat roof was in 
poor condition, with the edges of the felt lifting in places, indicating that the storm had simply 
highlighted wear and tear and gradually occurring damage.
Mr M said his roof was in good condition.
Ive looked at the brief, in-house surveyors report and compared that with the field 
surveyors report. The information given is conflicting because the field surveyor says the 
roof was in fair condition.
So, Ive looked at the photos taken by the field surveyor alongside QICs description of what 
it considers to be evidence of gradual deterioration and the poor condition of the roof. Having 
done so, Im not persuaded that the in-house surveyors report is a fair reflection of the roof 
condition.
The in-house surveyor said the edges of the felt are lifting and have de-bonded. I can see 
the edges where the felt overlaps and where it is fixed at the edge of the roof, but I cant see 
anything to suggest the felt has de-bonded. QIC hasnt pointed to any specific area of the 
roof where de-bonding is evident, and its field surveyor didnt report any evidence of de-
bonding. Furthermore, the roof hadnt been permanently repaired, so the option was there 
for QIC to obtain more conclusive evidence to support its opinion.
I find the photos and field surveyors report more persuasive than the in-house surveyors 
report, because the field surveyor who took the photos wouldve had a better view of the roof 
and the overall condition of the property. If the field surveyor had identified any evidence of 
de-bonding, I think its more likely than not that they wouldve reported that.
Therefore, Im satisfied that the evidence indicates the roof was not in a poor condition.
I understand Mr M couldnt find any evidence of when he had the flat felt roof replaced. 
Looking at the records provided by QIC, it seems he consistently reported that the roof was 
replaced at least within the last ten years. Although QIC said thats approaching the average 
lifespan of a flat roof, I disagree. Theres no hard and fast lifespan expectation of a flat roof 
because its dependent on a number of factors, such as quality of installation, materials used 
and exposure. As QIC hasnt pointed to any of the common evidence that the roof was 
nearing the end of its lifespan - such as blistering, pooled water or cracks - I see no reason 
to conclude that the flat roof was nearing the end of its lifespan.
As a final point, Mr M was concerned that QICs field surveyor didnt go onto the roof to 
inspect it. I dont necessarily think thats wrong, providing they obtained sufficient evidence 
to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion at the time of the visit. But, with that in mind, Id need to see some compelling evidence from QIC that the in-house surveyors report was 
more accurate than the field surveyors. I appreciate that the field surveyor didnt say the 
claim was accepted, but nor did they say it was declined. If the survey of the roof revealed 
clear evidence of gradual deterioration, I think its more likely than not that the field surveyor 
wouldve reported that the roof was in poor condition and the claim was declined, rather 
than, as they actually reported, that the roof was in fair condition and the claim outcome 
would be confirmed subject to policy coverage.
Overall, I havent seen anything in the evidence to persuade me that the in-house surveyors 
view of the roof condition is more compelling than that of the field surveyor. And the photos 
dont support QICs view that the roof was in poor condition and nearing the end of its 
lifespan. Therefore, I dont agree that QIC declined Mr Ms claim fairly or in line with the 
policy.
Putting things right
To put matters right, QIC should settle the claim for the storm damage in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions, and pay £216 for the temporary repairs Mr M had 
done, including interest at a rate of 8% p.a. simple from the date of the invoice, 23 February 
2022, to the date QIC makes payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint 
and QIC Europe Limited must:
Settle their claim for the storm damage in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
Reimburse them £216 for the emergency repairs.
Pay 8% p.a. simple interest on the emergency repair cost from the date Mr and Mrs 
M paid the invoice to the date QIC makes payment to them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman