DRN-2901262
The complaint
Mr P says Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) didnt pay him enough for his written-
off car when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr Ps car was fitted with numerous extra features by the manufacturer in 2015. They added
over £22,000 to its standard price of just under £60,000 when new. Mr P bought the car from
a previous owner. It was damaged beyond economic repair on 10 March 2020 in an
accident. RSA offered Mr P £32,000 for the car. Mr P didnt think that was fair, so he got an
assessment from an independent valuer (Mr K) who thought the cars market value was
just over £34,000. Mr P said hed also had the car valued a week before the accident and in
the opinion of the firm hed used (firm L) it was worth between £36,500 and £37,500. Mr P
also complained about RSAs poor service  especially having had to chase it for updates.
In response to Mr Ps complaint, RSA accepted that its service could have been better and
that there had been some delay in dealing with the claim. It offered him £150 compensation
for that, but it didnt increase its valuation of the car. RSA said it had offered Mr P more than
the sums quoted in three of the national trade guides.
One of our investigators assessed Mr Ps complaint. She noted that RSA had the car valued
by an independent firm of motor engineers (firm B) and that RSA had then raised its offer
from the £30,700 it had valued the car at initially. That sum was just over the highest trade
guide valuation, from a guide that added value for six of the cars extra features. The
investigator checked the trade guides RSA had used, plus a fourth trade guide  but the
valuation in that guide was less than the improved sum RSA had offered Mr P.
The investigator wasnt persuaded by the adverts Mr P provided, as we dont think
advertised prices are reliable in general. She didnt think the valuation from firm L was
persuasive either. And she said the way Mr K had reached his valuation wasnt in line with
the approach we take. She thought RSAs offer for the car was fair, as was its offer of
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr P said Mr Ks report was a legal document which shouldnt have been dismissed, as it
overrode our process. He said the investigator wasnt a qualified engineer. He also said this
service and RSA are bound by the law and by the rules governing conflicts of interest. In his
view, RSA should either have paid the full value of the claim or said it couldnt deal with it, as
there was a conflict of interest. Had it done so, Mr P said hed have obtained the full sum for
the car, as hed have sued the other drivers insurer directly. He then referred to a recent
case in which an ombudsman had upheld a valuation complaint based on adverts, plus the
consumers engineers report. And he said the investigator hadnt applied the law or followed
the contract he had with the insurer, as shed just relied on our process.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review, and I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
Usually we think the fairest way to value a car is to look at the prices quoted in the trade
guides, as the investigator explained in her view. We dont think adverts are helpful in
general, because they only reflect asking prices. Despite that, Mr P found a decision where
an ombudsman had upheld a valuation complaint based on adverts and an engineers
report. Thats quite unusual, but each case we review is treated on its particular merits.
In a few valuation cases, we think its appropriate to depart from our standard process and
seek a bespoke valuation for a vehicle. I think thats the right approach to take here, given
the number of the cars extra features and their initial value, which was well over a third of
the cars basic original price. Sometimes, we also request an upper retail valuation - from the
team that produces one of the trade guides - due to the unusual number of optional extras a
car has and their value. I think its fair to consider an upper retail value in this particular case.
We were able to obtain a bespoke valuation (£36,750) plus an upper retail valuation
(£34,104) for Mr Ps car. I think it would be fair and reasonable to take an average of these
figures - £35,427 - and ask RSA to increase the sum paid to Mr P by £3,427, plus interest.
The new proposed valuation is higher than the one Mr K thought was fair. Its also slightly
higher than the £35,000 asking price quoted in an advert Mr P sent us. The car in that advert
had higher mileage and fewer extras than Mr Ps car - but I think the sale price it achieved is
very likely to have been lower than the asking price. The same applies to the asking prices
of cars found by Mr K that he thought were suitable comparators to Mr Ps car.
I dont agree with Mr P that the opinion and evidence Mr K supplied in support of his case
should override our process. Consumers seek an opinion from us on whether we think an
insurer has made an error in valuing a car. We look at whats fair and reasonable, based on
all the evidence (which in this case, includes Mr Ks report) and our established approach to
valuations. Consumers dont have to accept our opinions, and the option of taking legal
action remains open. Mr P can take that route should he wish to do so. Meanwhile, the
contract between Mr P and RSA required it to pay him the cars market value. My role is to
assess whether I think the evidence shows it did that or not  and if it didnt, to put forward
appropriate remedies.
I think RSA tried to provide a fair valuation, in line with our usual approach, having asked an
independent firm of engineers to value the car. But in my opinion, this isnt a standard
valuation vase, which is why weve taken further steps to try to establish a fair valuation. The
way Mr K proposed that Mr Ps car should be valued isnt in line with our approach. Mr K
thinks a cars extra features (or at least the major ones) should be valued at the same rate
the car has depreciated and then added to the sum due for the car. Our general view is that
extra features may add no value to a car - or will add only a fraction of their original cost. I
think this case is unusual, in that here, the extra features add significant value, which is why
Im proposing that RSA should pay Mr P an additional sum
In terms of poor service, RSA has accepted that its contact with Mr P should have been
better. Some promised calls werent returned  and he faced very long waiting times when
he tried to contact RSA. That must have been really frustrating, but I think its fair to bear in
mind that the claim was made shortly before the start of the lockdown that began in March
2020. Many businesses struggled to deal with staff shortages and significant disruption at
the time, much of which was beyond their control.
RSA made a payment to Mr P for the car around six weeks after he made the claim. I dont
think the time taken to get to that point was much delayed, given that the claim had to be
validated, then the valuation was disputed. And Mr P had a replacement car during the
whole period, which I think limited the inconvenience he faced. In the circumstances, I think
RSAs payment of £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience was reasonable.  I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mr P accepted it. RSA said we 
hadnt followed our standard approach, as we hadnt relied on the trade guide valuations. It 
queried why wed sought a bespoke valuation and from where. It also said that the third 
partys insurer had already disputed the valuation RSA had put on Mr Ps car, so it wouldnt 
accept an even higher valuation. RSA said if it couldnt recoup its losses from the other 
insurer, then Mr Ps claim would be recorded as a fault claim, which would lead to a further 
complaint from him. 
We sent a copy of the bespoke valuation and the upper retail valuation to RSA, showing the 
additional features that were taken into account in reaching the figures generated. RSA said 
we  should have approached another trade guide or organisation for a bespoke view. It 
asked if it would have to seek bespoke valuations in all the numerous disputed cases it dealt 
with. And it said the average of the four trade guide valuations (including the recent upper 
retail valuation) resulted in an average of £32,000  which is the sum it had offered Mr P. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, we treat each case on its own merits, and in a few 
valuation cases we think its fair and reasonable to depart from our usual process and seek a 
bespoke valuation. I said I thought RSA had tried to provide a fair valuation, based on our 
usual approach. But in in my opinion, this wasnt a standard case, given the number of extra 
features the car had and their initial value, which was over a third of the cars total price. For 
the same reason, I said we also sought an upper retail valuation from a trade guide team.  
The bespoke valuation was also obtained from a trade guide organisation. The new 
valuations showed that in this particular case the extra features on the car added significant 
value - although in most cases, we think extras add little value, or none at all. I dont think 
taking an average of all four trade guides, as RSA has suggested, would be reasonable 
here, as it would mean using  two guides that didnt take the cars extra features into 
account. And it would undermine the whole point of getting bespoke valuations.    
I dont think anything I said in the provisional decision could reasonably have led RSA to 
consider that we think it should seek bespoke valuations whenever theres a dispute over the 
value of a vehicle. We rarely do so, and our usual approach to valuation disputes remains 
the same - that the trade guides provide the most reliable way of establishing market value 
in the vast majority of cases. 
In terms of the third partys insurer, I dont think RSA can say what its response will be to a 
final decision from this service requiring RSA to pay Mr P £35,427 for his car (plus interest) - 
on the basis that we think its the market value of his particular vehicle. But its for RSA to 
deal with the other insurer as it sees fit. In my opinion, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
RSA to mark Mr Ps claim as a fault claim. Should it do so, as RSA has already noted, it 
would be open to Mr P to make a further complaint to RSA and to this service.   
Although Ive considered all the comments RSA has made, I remain of the view that it would 
be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ps complaint and to require RSA to pay Mr P a further 
£3,427 for his car, plus interest.    
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
to do the following:
Pay Mr P a further £3,427 for his car
Add interest to the sum above, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date the
           payment for the car was made to the date of settlement   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman