DRN-4356199
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) didnt fix his 
mobile phone properly when it undertook a repair under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M has insurance for his mobile phone with Assurant through his bank. On 27 December 
2022 he made a claim under his policy when his phone was damaged. He paid a £75 policy 
excess, and the phone was sent away for repair on 13 January 2023. The repaired phone 
was returned to him on 16 January 2023.
On 14 June 2023, Mr M noticed that cracks had appeared on the screen. He assumed that 
the replacement screen was faulty, so he contacted Assurant. He says he was met with 
hostility and rudeness and that he was told that damage to his phone isnt covered under 
warranty and that hed have to make a new claim. He says he had to buy a spare phone and 
is also continuing to pay £83 a month for a phone he cant use.
He wants Assurant to repair his phone to an acceptable standard and to be reimbursed for 
the spare phone he had to buy. He also wants compensation for the poor service hes 
received and the stress he says hes suffered.
In its final response to Mr Ms complaint, Assurant told Mr M that when a repair is conducted, 
a six month warranty is provided, but if the phone is damaged, the warranty is voided.
Mr M brought a complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that Assurants 
warranty covers only mechanical and electrical failures and doesnt cover damage and that 
Assurant had acted fairly in declining to repair his screen under warranty. He advised Mr M 
that Assurant could look at the new damage but he would have to make a new claim and 
pay another excess.
Mr M has said hed like his complaint referred to an ombudsman. Its therefore been passed 
to me for a review and a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
When Assurant returned Mr Ms phone in January 2023 after the initial repair, Mr M wouldve 
received details of the warranty applicable to repairs undertaken by Assurant. This states 
that the warranty only covers mechanical and electrical failure for 180 days. It doesnt cover 
damage to screens. 
Mr M has said that the damage to the screen was no fault of his and occurred through 
normal use. I understand his view to be that Assurants initial repair wasnt done properly 
and it should be put right without him having to pay another excess.
Assurant has said that the phone went through its usual process which involves 61 quality 
control checks before being returned to him. In my view, if the screen had been faulty, or 
poorly fitted, it is more likely than not that this wouldve become apparent much sooner than 
it did. I dont consider there is sufficient evidence to support a case that the cracked screen 
was attributable to fault on Assurants part or that the repair wasnt to an acceptable 
standard. 
Im therefore unable to find that Assurant has done anything wrong. It has offered to 
undertake a repair under Mr Ms policy, but this will require the payment of another excess.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman