DRN-1372526
The complaint
Mr D and Mr J have complained about the repairs and poor service Mr D received following 
a claim under his car insurance policy with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
Mr Ds car was damaged in April 2019 while Mr J was driving. Mr D brought a complaint to 
this service about LVs handling of the repairs. Mr Ds car had a vinyl wrap and so following 
enquiries by Mr J and Mr D, a specialist paint repairer was found, and it was agreed with LV 
that it would cover the costs for Mr Ds car to be re-wrapped in full. This has been dealt with 
under a separate complaint with this service. 
In October 2019 LV replied to further complaints which Mr D raised. In summary these were:
Mr D had to continue to pay for insurance while his car was at the repairers.
They had to buy a replacement car due to having to return the hire car provided even 
though Mr Ds car hadnt been repaired.
After the car was re-wrapped, LV delivered the car to their home address before 
theyd requested, as they would be out. Mr D is unhappy his car was left on the drive 
and the keys were put through the door.
LV said that Mr D had also raised concerns about a GDPR request. LV accepted that it 
hadnt handled this request in a timely manner and for the delay it paid £50 compensation. 
And it said that as Mr D felt let down by LV and was considering cancelling, LV would waive 
its fees to remove Mr Ds policy from the multi car policy and its cancellation fees if Mr J 
wanted to cancel his policy too.
In relation to the remaining complaints, LV didnt uphold them. It said it was a legal 
requirement for Mr D to insure his car even while it was at the repairers. It said it gave Mr D 
the option to have his car returned to him as it was driveable while his complaint was being 
investigated by us, but they chose to buy a replacement car instead. As Mr D asked for the 
delivery time to be changed on a Saturday its office was closed. LV called the delivery driver 
on Monday morning, but it was too late to change the time slot. It let Mr D know this and that 
his keys would be dropped through the letterbox. 
Mr D asked us to look at his complaint. He said he wanted £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience LV had caused him and Mr J. He raised new complaints with LV 
about repairs to his car separate to the re-wrap. He was unhappy with the overall length of 
time it took to have his car repaired. 
Our investigator explained that the new complaints relating to repair issues would be dealt 
with separately.
He thought LV had acted reasonably and in line with the policy when looking at Mr Ds 
complaints. So he didnt recommend LV should do any more. 
Mr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D is unhappy at having to pay insurance for his car while he wasnt driving 
it. But its a legal requirement for Mr D to ensure his car is insured  even if he isnt using it  
unless he declares it as off road otherwise known as SORN with the DVLA. 
Ive considered what Mr D has said about the overall time its taken for his claim to be dealt 
with. But its clear that due to the wrapping of the car, the availability of a specialist to be 
able to re-wrap the car the same colour was extremely difficult to find. And after finding a 
specialist, when Mr Ds car was at that garage, the original paint wasnt available and so it 
was paint matched to the closest colour possible. This is something LV had offered from the 
outset, which Mr D had refused. 
So I can understand the frustration Mr D feels  but I dont think LV is responsible for any 
delay here. Ultimately the specialist garage Mr D discovered wasnt able to match the 
original paintwork either. 
LVs policy says it will provide a hire car for either the duration of repairs or 21 days. LV said 
it provided a hire car from 15 April 2019 to 13 June 2019. LV said on 5 June 2019 it gave Mr 
D the option to have his car returned to him as it was driveable, but he refused as he wanted 
to know the outcome of our investigation into his previous complaint. So Mr Ds car was put 
into storage. I therefore cant conclude that LV is responsible for their decision to buy a 
replacement car instead of accepting the return of Mr Ds car. 
For the confusion LV caused in dealing with Mr Ds GDPR request, it apologised and paid 
£50 compensation. I think this was reasonable to reflect the inconvenience LV caused here. 
I understand Mr D is very unhappy that LV arranged the return of his car from the specialist 
repairer earlier than he requested. However, I think LV acted promptly on Monday morning 
to try and rearrange delivery of the car in line with their request on Saturday. Unfortunately 
the car was already in transit. And there was no material impact of Mr D or Mr J not being 
home when the car was delivered to their driveway. So I dont think LV needs to do any 
more here. 
I understand dealing with any claim can be a distressing and upsetting experience. But I 
think some of the issues experienced by Mr D and Mr J were unfortunately outside of LVs 
control. So overall I think LV acted reasonably and in line with the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman