DRN-2243721
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that National Westminster Bank Plc unreasonably refused to allow 
them to port their mortgage to their new property. They want NatWest to refund the 
redemption penalty they paid, compensate them for the stress and worry they have suffered, 
and provide them with a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with NatWest. In 2017 they acquired planning permission to 
build a new home in the grounds of the property. They planned to sell their original house 
and move into the new one. 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage had a number of sub-accounts. Sub-accounts one and two were 
on a fixed rate until end December 2019. And Mr and Mrs B changed the product on sub-
accounts three and four in mid-2019, meaning that those sub-accounts were on a fixed rate 
until end June 2024. 
A buyer was found for their original house and discussions with NatWest started in 
September 2019 about porting the mortgage across to the newly built house.
NatWest initially said this was something it could agree to.. But it then said that the mortgage 
couldnt be ported as they didnt provide lending for new-build properties. An exemption 
waiver was then obtained to allow the porting to proceed  but porting was subsequently 
refused as the underwriter confirmed that porting couldnt occur as the property was classed 
as a self-build.
Mr B complained to NatWest. And NatWest responded to the complaint. It said, in summary:
It had initially said that it could agree to the mortgage being ported to the new 
property. However, when Mr B called to start the process it said it couldnt port the 
mortgage as the new house was classed as a new build and didnt meet its porting 
criteria; Unfortunately this was incorrect. The reason why it was unable to agree to 
port was because its policy didnt allow porting to a property that he already owned. 
This was explained in section 10 of the original offer of loan;
It had attempted to ascertain if an exception could be agreed to allow Mr B to port the 
mortgage. And an appointment had been arranged for Mr B with a mortgage adviser. 
But as part of the pre-checks before the appointment it became apparent that the 
original exception had been agreed by the wrong team. And the underwriter advised 
that in this instance the porting application couldnt be agreed due to the property 
being self build.
It acknowledged how frustrating this must have been for Mr B. It apologised, and 
awarded Mr B £300 compensation. And it agreed to waive the early repayment 
charge (ERC) of around £2200 applying to sub accounts one and two of the account. 
But it didnt agree to wave the ERC of around £3450 applying to sub accounts three 
and four.
Mr B brought the complaint to this service. He said in particular that hed had to pay 
redemption penalties on sub-accounts three and four that he felt were totally unjustified. And 
he said that he was struggling to obtain a mortgage elsewhere and so had had to take out a 
bridging loan as a last resort, causing substantial financial hardship. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and said:
Having reviewed NatWests lending criteria he could confirm that it had acted in 
accordance with its own criteria. And hed also seen that the porting guidance said 
that customers must meet current lending criteria at the point of moving;
He was therefore satisfied that the lending decision made by NatWest was in line 
with its criteria and that no error had been made in respect of the lending decision 
reached.
NatWest had accepted that the service Mr and Mrs B had received hadnt been of the 
standard expected. And the investigator felt that the compensation NatWest had paid 
Mr and Mrs B was fair in the circumstances of the complaint.
He appreciated that Mr and Mrs B had experienced difficulties sourcing alternative 
financing and that this had resulted in some financial hardship. But as he didnt feel 
that NatWest had made an error in refusing to port the mortgage he didnt feel he 
could suggest that it take any further action.
Mr and Mrs B do not agree with our investigators conclusions, and so this complaint has 
been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage offers made to Mr and Mrs B when they took out the 
mortgage in 2014, and also when they took a further advance in 2016. Both of these offer 
documents say: 
What happens if you move house?
If you buy a new property while an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) is payable on one or 
more of the products which make up this mortgage, you may port your existing mortgage 
product(s) to your new property subject to the following terms:-
.
The mortgage must be ported to a new property that you are purchasing; you cannot 
port to a property you already own.
Im satisfied from this that it was made clear to Mr and Mrs B at the time that they took out 
the mortgage that it would not be possible to port the mortgage products to a property that 
they already owned.
NatWest says that it did check whether an exception could be made in this case. But the 
underwriter advised that it couldnt agree to the porting application due to the nature of the 
property being self build. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B dont agree with NatWests decision. But, having reviewed its 
lending criteria Im satisfied that it acted in accordance with that criteria. And so Im not 
persuaded that it has made an error.NatWest has accepted that the service Mr and Mrs B received was below the standard it 
would expect. It apologised, it and paid them £300 compensation. It also waived the ERC on 
parts one and two of their mortgage. 
I note that Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the compensation offered. In particular, Mr B says 
that NatWest should also refund the ERC on sub-accounts three and four of the mortgage. 
This is because he says he only took out a new fixed rate product on sub-accounts three 
and four in 2019 on the basis that he would be able to port. 
I appreciate that Mr B says that NatWest should have proactively told him that he wouldnt 
be able to port the product to the new property, But I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
that he made NatWest fully aware of his plans for the properties, or that NatWest advised 
him to take out a fixed product based on the facts of his porting plans. And, as explained 
above, Im satisfied that NatWest had told Mr B that it wouldnt be possible to port the 
mortgage product to a property he already owned when he took out the mortgage. So, in the 
circumstances, I dont find it reasonable to require it to refund the ERC on sub-accounts 
three and four. And Im satisfied that the compensation that NatWest has paid to Mr and 
Mrs B is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B also says that he has had trouble securing a mortgage elsewhere. And I sympathise 
with his position. But as I dont find that NatWest made an error Im not persuaded it would 
be reasonable for me to require it to do anything further. So this doesnt change my decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman