DRN-2447166
The complaint
Mr M complains about a current account he held with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 18 November 2020. I wanted to give both 
parties a chance to respond because I was thinking of coming to a different outcome to our 
investigator. I have copied my provisional decision below as it forms part of this final 
decision.
What happened
Mr M says he opened this HSBC current account in around 1992-1993.
In 2010, HSBC reduced his overdraft facility from £1000 to £500. It then did this again in 
2011 when it reduced the amount from £500 to £250.
Eventually, in 2012, HSBC closed Mr Ms account and there was an outstanding balance 
owed on the overdraft.
Mr M complained to HSBC back in 2011  a summary of his main concerns are below:
His overdraft was reduced and that the charging structure for fees was changed.
HSBC told a third party that his account didnt have the facility to send standing 
orders
HSBC continued to contact his family address.
He didnt get a response to two of his emails in 2011.
HSBC wrote back to Mr M in 2011 to say that it was unable to uphold his complaint. It said 
that it had written to Mr M to let him know that it intended to reduce his overdraft limit. And 
that if he didnt want the limit reducing, then he could have requested to keep the limit at the 
time.
Mr M responded to HSBC with two separate emails, but he says he didnt get a response to 
these.
Mr M has also told us that HSBC continued to contact his parents house to try and recover 
the money owed on the overdraft. He says that HSBC harassed them and called their home 
very early in the morning and late at night. Mr M says this continued even after his parents 
let HSBC know that he no longer lived at that address.
Mr M also complained that HSBC provided a different business with incorrect information 
about Mr Ms account. He says the other business was told that Mr Ms account didnt have 
the facility to make payments by standing order  and as a result of this Mr M incurred 
charges with this other business.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. He acknowledged that given the amount of time 
that has now passed, HSBC has very little information available for us to be able to have a 
good understanding as to what happened. However, he did think hed seen enough for him 
to be able to say that he thought HSBC were within its rights to reduce Mr Ms overdraft. He 
thought that it was poor that HSBC continued to contact his parents and that HSBC didnt 
respond to his emails. And because of this, he thought that HSBC should compensate Mr M 
£200 for the poor service.
HSBC initially didnt agree to pay Mr M £200. It said that it didnt have information going back 
as far as 2011, from when the events of this complaint took place. And because of this, it 
couldnt say whether it received the emails Mr M has referred to, or whether or not it 
responded to them. However, HSBC finally agreed to pay the £200.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator either. He said that HSBC hadnt complied with the 
original contract from when he opened the account  he also asked our investigator for a 
copy of the original terms and conditions from account opening.
And he said that he wants the below in order to settle the complaint:
The full reinstatement of all banking facilities with HSBC; including bank accounts, 
the original overdraft and loan facility;
The full deletion of any records relating to this matter held with any credit agencies;
The full cancellation of any charges associated with the aforementioned;
The full issue of all statements for the period of the last 3 years of the accounts 
existence.
Because Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
And having done so, I dont intend to uphold any part of Mr Ms complaint. And Ill explain my 
reason for this in more details below. HSBC has very limited information about this 
complaint. This isnt surprising or unusual given the length of time that has now passed since 
Mr M raised his concerns with HSBC.
And I dont draw anything negative from this either  I wouldnt expect HSBC to keep hold of
information going back so far.
Overdraft and charging structure
Looking at the terms and conditions that applied to Mr Ms account in 2011, these say: 29.3. 
We may make changes to the price list that applies to your account (including introducing 
new charges or making changes to the basis on which we charge for operating/providing 
product(s)/ service(s))
So, HSBC were acting in line with its terms and conditions if it changed the amount Mr M 
was charged for his overdraft or for any other operating charges, like unpaid direct debits. 
This term isnt unusual and in line with most other terms and conditions, so I dont find this to 
be unfair or unreasonable.In relation to the reduction of Mr Ms overdraft facility, I havent seen an actual copy of the 
letter that was sent to Mr M prior to the removal of his overdraft. But I have seen a copy that 
HSBC sent to Mr M after he complained to them. These letters let Mr M know that it intended 
to reduce the overdraft facility, but Mr M didnt have to agree to this and could contact HSBC 
to keep the original limit if he wanted. HSBC didnt hear from Mr M and so the overdraft was 
reduced.
Mr M says he didnt receive the letters about the reduction in the overdraft. But hes also told 
us that he didnt give HSBC his up to date address information, so it isnt surprising that he 
didnt get these letters. The terms and conditions of Mr Ms account states that he would 
need to let HSBC know about any changes in his personal information, like address. For this 
reason, I cant hold HSBC responsible for Mr M not receiving any communication about the 
changes to his overdraft.
Mr M says that HSBC are breaching contract law by not sticking to the original agreement it 
had with him. Its not my role to decide on this point. In any event, neither Mr M nor HSBC 
has been able to provide me with a copy of the original agreement  so I dont know what it 
said. But I dont think it is unreasonable of HSBC to change the terms and conditions of Mr 
Ms account over time. This is normal practice within the banking industry. And had Mr M 
been unhappy with any of the new terms and conditions, then he could have closed his 
account at any time.
So with the above in mind, I currently think HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in reducing the 
amount it chose to lend to him.
Information provided to a third-party business about payments from the account
Mr M says that HSBC told a third party that his account couldnt send standing orders or 
direct debits  and he incurred charges as a result of the payments not going through. I 
havent seen any evidence of the charges Mr M says he incurred, so at the moment it would 
be difficult for me to know the financial impact of this on Mr M. There really isnt much 
information available to me on this point  other than what Mr M has told me. I dont know if 
Mr Ms account had been restricted or not. But if it had and having looked at the terms and 
conditions that applied to Mr Ms account in 2011, I can see that HSBC could stop payments 
from being processed for various reasons. So, without further information, I cant currently 
say that HSBC has done anything wrong.
HSBC harassed Mr Ms parents and didnt respond to his emails.
Mr M has said that HSBC continued to contact his parents, even after they had told HSBC 
that Mr M no longer lived at that address. Again, given the time thats passed, HSBC dont 
have any record of this. So, I cant see what times or how often they called. But given what 
Mr M has told us about him not updating his contact details with HSBC, I think it likely that 
HSBC did attempt to contact Mr M on the details it held for him. As Ive said previously, its 
up to Mr M to ensure that his contact details are up to date.
While I agree that HSBC shouldnt be harassing people using incorrect contact details, 
other than what Mr M has told us, I havent seen any information that persuades me that the 
amount of times it attempted to contact Mr M using his parents number was excessive. And 
even if I was going to uphold Mr Ms complaint on this point, which Im not intending to, I 
would only be asking HSBC to compensate Mr M for his trouble and upset, and not his 
parents, who he says were the receiver of the calls.
HSBC didnt respond to Mr Ms emailsMr M has sent us copies of two emails he sent to HSBC in 2011. Mr M says he didnt get a 
response to these emails. When we asked HSBC about this, they said that given the length 
of time thats passed, they dont know if they did respond to the emails or not  or if it 
received them at all. For me to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint here, I need to think it 
more likely that HSBC did something wrong in not responding. But given the nature of the 
emails  in that Mr M was trying to pay some money off a loan account he held with HSBC, it 
would seem unusual that HSBC wouldnt respond to this if it had received it.
Even if I accept that the customer service HSBC provided here was poor, Mr M didnt pursue 
things again until more recently, some seven years later. So, given the time thats passed 
since he first raised these issues, I can only conclude I dont think Mr M has been too 
troubled if he didnt get a response  and I dont currently plan on asking HSBC to 
compensate Mr M for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC responded to my provisional decision to say it agreed with my provisional findings and 
it didnt have anything further to add. 
The provisional decision was sent to Mr M on 18 November, and we wrote to him again on 
30 November to check he had received it. Mr M hasnt responded to either the provisional 
decision or the follow up email we sent to him on 30 November. Because of this, I assume 
he doesnt have anything further to add.
Given that HSBC agrees with my provisional findings and Mr M hasnt given me any new 
information to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings  copied 
above. 
So for the reasons set out in my provisional findings, I wont be upholding Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman