DRN-3183551
The complaint
Mr T has complained about Equifax Limited, saying that they removed his electoral roll 
information.
What happened
Mr T complained in January 2021. Hed found that his electoral roll information was missing 
from his credit file. He pointed out that when he checked with his local authority, theyd been 
able to confirm he was registered to vote. He said it had caused him issues with his credit.
In February 2021, Mr Ts electoral roll information was updated.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They explained that due to the pandemic, 
local authorities had been allowed to submit their annual electoral roll update later than 
usual, and Mr Ts local authority had done so. They explained that Equifax hadnt tampered 
with Mr Ts information, they just had to wait for the local authority to send the latest up-to-
date data before they could display it  and so in the meantime his electoral roll information 
was not displayed.
Mr T didnt agree. He said that Equifax had removed his electoral roll information. The 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, each year local authorities update the electoral roll register. 
Here, they were allowed to update it later than usual because of issues stemming from the 
global pandemic. I can see that Mr Ts local authority was one of the ones who chose to 
delay the publication of their register. According to Equifaxs records, the electoral roll data 
was updated in February 2021, rather than in the December as normal. This was in line with 
the expected delays.
In the meantime, there was no current electoral roll data for Equifax to display for Mr T. The 
previous years register was out of date and couldnt be verified as still being correct, and the 
current years data hadnt been sent to them yet. So in Mr Ts case, Equifax did not unfairly 
remove his data, they were just waiting for the latest information to be given to them. Once 
they got that information, they displayed it on his credit file.
Indeed, I should explain that Equifax generally have a reliance on the data theyre given, and 
its the bodies providing the data who own it  not Equifax. So here, its Mr Ts local authority 
who own his electoral roll data. Equifax wouldnt normally be able to change it or delete it 
without the local authoritys permission. As far as I can see, in this situation they were just 
waiting for the latest register, and because of the announced delays in the register being 
published, there was a gap between the old data falling off and the new data being provided.
I appreciate this may not be intuitive, not least as when Mr T contacted his local authority 
they were able to confirm to him personally that he was registered to vote. So I understand 
his point of view. But as our investigator explained, theres a big difference between dealing 
with one individuals records and publishing the electoral roll register as a whole. And until 
his local authority did the latter and updated Equifax, Equifax didnt have the up-to-date 
electoral roll information to display for Mr T. Once they had it, it went on his file.
So I have not found Equifax to have done anything substantially wrong here. It follows that 
I dont hold them responsible for any issues Mr T may have found with his credit around the 
same time.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman