DRN-3856171
The complaint
Mr P and Mr S have complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim for 
storm damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P and Mr S contacted QIC when they found storm damage to their roof and fence. QIC 
sent a surveyor to assess the damage. Work was already being carried out to fix the 
damage when the surveyor visited. QIC declined the claim because it said the surveyor had 
found wear and tear to the roof, which wasnt covered by the policy.
When Mr P and Mr S complained, QIC maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said 
the surveyor had found wear and tear. It also said as the roof was only two to three years 
old, this indicated it hadnt been installed properly.
So, Mr P and Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She 
said there wasnt sufficient evidence to support the surveyors findings. Given the windspeed 
and the age of the roof, she said it was reasonable to conclude the damage was the result of 
a storm. She said QIC should review the claim for the roof and the fence in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy.
Following further discussion on this complaint, another investigator at this service responded 
to these and said QIC should review the claim for the roof and the fence.
QIC didnt agree and said it now thought Mr P and Mr S had prejudiced the claim. So, the 
complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 12 December 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at the weather conditions. This showed storm conditions 
around the time of the damage and wind speeds of up to 78mph. I note these are normally 
regarded as hurricane strength winds, which can cause devastation. I also think damage to a 
roof and a fence is consistent with the type of damage a storm could cause. So, I think the 
answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question. When the surveyor visited, work was already being 
carried out to the roof. The surveyor carried out the survey and said:
We have reviewed the photos taken of the roof condition and evidence is shown of 
deteriorated mortar bedding, weathering to the mortar bedding beneath the tile join, showing 
pre-separation and clear mortar deterioration in the valley lines. These areas will need to be 
replaced as part of the household maintenance and as the proximate cause is wear and 
tear/poor workmanship, we have declined the claim. As there is no authorised storm claim to 
the main property, the fence is unable to be considered.
Following an investigator at this service issuing her findings, QIC said its surveyor must have 
seen some photos provided by Mr P and Mr S before the repair work started. It asked to be 
provided with the photos. Mr P and Mr S confirmed they didnt have any photos taken before 
the repair work started. QIC then referred to wanting to see pre-loss photos. It also said its 
in-house review had said that as the ridge tiles were installed within the last three years, they 
shouldnt have blown off, so this indicated they hadnt been installed correctly. When an 
investigator at this service maintained that QIC should deal with the claim, QIC said that as 
Mr P and Mr S didnt have images prior to the repairs that its position had been prejudiced 
as it was unable to validate the damage further to the surveyors report based on the 
evidence it had.
QIC appears to have thought the surveyor saw photos that he then hadnt provided with his 
report. The content of the surveyors report was the surveyors responsibility and it was for 
the surveyor to show why those findings were reasonable, including providing supporting 
evidence. The photos in the report dont seem to show evidence of wear and tear or poor 
workmanship. 
QIC also said as the ridge tiles had been fitted fairly recently that they shouldnt have come 
off the roof. However, given there were hurricane strength winds and the devastation these 
can cause, I think this could have caused the ridge tiles to detach.
Ive also thought about whether its fair for QIC to now say it thinks Mr P and Mr S prejudiced 
the claim by not taking photos before the repairs started. However, neither QIC or the 
surveyor previously raised this as an issue. This only seems to have become a concern 
because the surveyors report didnt have evidence to support his findings, which QIC had 
assumed existed. So, I dont think QIC can now fairly try and argue that the claim was 
prejudiced by Mr P and Mr S.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the storm was the main 
cause of the damage to the roof. So, I currently intend to say that QIC needs to settle the 
claim for the damage to the roof. QIC also declined the claim for the fence because cover 
was only provided when the home itself was damaged. As I think the roof was damaged by 
the storm, I also think QIC needs to deal with the claim for the fence. Given the weather 
conditions, I think its more likely than not that the fence was damaged by the storm.
Mr P and Mr S have already had the work carried out on their home. So, I currently intend to 
require QIC to settle the claim based on the costs Mr P and Mr S paid to have the repairs 
carried out. I also intend to require QIC to pay interest on that amount, as they lost use of 
that money.
Ive also thought about compensation. I think there have been issues with the way this claim 
had been handled, including the way the survey was conducted. As a result, I currently 
intend to say QIC should pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 9 January 2023. Both parties replied before that date.QIC didnt agree with my decision. It referred to the comments in the surveyors report that 
said he had reviewed photos of the roof condition. QIC said it was its responsibility to 
ascertain which photos the surveyor had viewed. It was then determined that there werent 
any pre-repair photos, which led to the decision that the claim had been prejudiced. QIC 
provided an excerpt from the policy on Claims Procedures and Conditions, which explained 
what QIC could ask a policyholder to do as part of it investigating a claim. Since the 
complaint had been with this service, it came to light that there werent any photos. QIC said 
this had now caused uncertainty around the decline and the surveyors assessment of wear 
and tear to the roof.
When Mr P and Mr S replied, they agreed with the decision and provided some comments. 
They didnt see how the answer to the third question, on whether a storm was the main 
cause of the damage, could be no. If the storm hadnt happened, the roof wouldnt have 
been damaged as the tiles wouldnt have fallen off. They said the rest of the roof was in 
great condition and hadnt fallen off. In terms of the claim being prejudiced, they said they 
made a claim as soon as they saw the damage. They were instructed to proceed with getting 
a roofer to cover up the area to prevent further damage as more rain was forecast. At no 
point were they asked to take any pictures. So, they said that QIC now trying to decline the 
claim because they hadnt taken pictures, but had acted as instructed by QIC, wasnt 
reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive considered the comments provided by both parties, 
even I dont discuss them all here. These dont change my view about how this complaint 
should be resolved. 
QIC has now said it is entitled to ask a policyholder for evidence when it investigates a claim. 
I agree that is a normal part of a claim. However, the issue here is that QIC is only asking for 
that evidence many months after its surveyor visited and wrote a report that now appears to 
have inaccurate information in it. 
Mr P and Mr S have said they werent asked to take photos. They also allowed a surveyor to 
visit. It was for the surveyor to make an accurate assessment of the damage and to show 
why that assessment could be relied on. I dont think its fair to now put the responsibility on 
Mr P and Mr S to resolve the issues with the surveyors report and his findings.
Based on all the evidence available to me, I remain of the view that its more likely than not 
that the storm was the main cause of the damage. As a result, I uphold this complaint and 
require QIC to settle the claim, with interest on any cash settlement, and pay Mr P and Mr S 
compensation for the impact on them of how their claim was dealt with.
Putting things right
QIC should settle the claim for the roof and the fence. It should also pay interest on any cash 
settlement and pay £150 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Settle the claim for the damage to the roof and the fence based on the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. It cannot rely on exclusions for wear and tear or poor 
workmanship or terms and conditions around prejudicing the claim.
Pay 8% simple interest on any cash settlement for the works already completed from the 
date on which Mr P and Mr S paid for the works to the date on which it makes the 
payment.
Pay £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman