DRN-2576018
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out PPI alongside a mortgage that started in November 1994. 
The PPI covered Mr C for accident, sickness and unemployment and protected 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage monthly repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our 
adjudicator. 
Mr and Mrs C have sent detailed comments in response to the adjudicators view. In brief 
summary, they mainly say they believed that because the mortgage was in both names that 
the policy would apply to both of them. The fact the insurance just covered Mr C has led 
them to believe that they were mis-sold the policy. They also told us that Halifax didnt tell 
them they could shop elsewhere for a similar product for a policy that covered them both.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Mr C was the person covered by the PPI policy, but Mr and Mrs C had a joint mortgage so 
Ive looked at both their circumstances when the insurance was taken out.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Halifax couldnt provide any documents from the time of sale showing how or exactly when 
the PPI was sold. But its not surprising, given how long ago this sale happened, that 
paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt expect Halifax or Mr and Mrs C to have kept this. 
And the lack of paperwork isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs C are sure about everything theyve told us. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs C to remember exactly what was discussed when they 
took out the policy as this was so long ago. And what Mr and Mrs C say isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. 
I must make my decision based on what I think is likely to have happened taking into 
account all the information thats available, what the parties have told me and also thinking 
about what we know about these types of sales at that time. And where theres information 
missing I need to make reasonable assumptions about what I think probably happened. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C a choice about taking 
out the PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs C 
werent given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to their 
mortgage account without their knowledge or consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage without their consent. 
I say this because their mortgage was a major financial commitment which they signed up to 
pay back over 25 years. Mr and Mrs Cs home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage 
payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and better protection than 
they had otherwise. So it looks to me as if Mr and Mrs C couldve found PPI useful if theyd 
needed to claim. And I can see why they mightve felt that having PPI was worthwhile for 
them.  
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Halifax didnt 
make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs C not to choose PPI if they didnt want to have 
it. Mr and Mrs C wouldve been able to choose if they wanted to share the policy benefits. 
On balance, I think its likely that they decided they wanted to have the benefits PPI offered 
and they chose to buy the policy to cover Mr C  even if theyve forgotten this now.  
As Halifax wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, and they couldnt remember 
either, Halifax looked at their complaint on the basis that it advised them to take out PPI. 
Given the lack of paperwork showing how Halifax sold Mr and Mrs C the PPI, I think this is 
the fairest way to assess this complaint as it imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a 
business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy 
information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable. 
So Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Cs complaint this way also and thought carefully about what 
Mr and Mrs C told us about their situation at the time to see if PPI was right for them when 
they took out this mortgage.  
As its unclear exactly when Halifax sold this PPI it has provided a policy document which 
was in use after their mortgage was set up. This gives me an idea of the policy terms that 
wouldve applied. I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr and Mrs C took 
out to cover Mr C wouldve had similar terms and conditions. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr C wasnt eligible for PPI. And it looks like he was the 
main earner when Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage started. So I can see why Mr and Mrs C 
mightve wanted to put the cover in his name as this ensured that theyd still be able to pay 
the mortgage even if Mr C wasnt able to work. 
I think its likely that the policy protected Mr C for up to 12 months per claim in the event he 
lost his job unexpectedly and became unemployed. And the policy couldve also paid out if 
he had an accident or was too sick or disabled to work. As Mr and Mrs C have confirmed 
that Mr Cs employer didnt pay any sick pay, I think the policy couldve been very useful to 
Mr and Mrs C  especially as they also told us they had no other reliable way to cover the 
mortgage monthly repayments if they werent working.
I've taken into account that Mrs C was also in paid work at the time and her employer paid 
some sick pay. But I dont know how likely it is that Mr and Mrs C wouldve been able to 
keep up with their mortgage repayments if only Mrs C was working  Mr C earned around 
half as much again as Mrs C contributed to the joint household finances. So I think they wouldve likely run into money problems quite soon if only Mrs C was working. And as Mrs C 
already had some cover through her work if she was off sick, I can see why Mr and Mrs C 
mightve felt that protecting Mr Cs income was a priority for them at the time. 
So the fact that the cover was just in Mr Cs name alone isnt a reason for me to uphold this 
complaint.  
Mr and Mrs C cant confirm what savings they had at the time. But this makes no difference 
to the outcome of this complaint. 
If they didnt have any significant savings, then it seems to me that PPI couldve been very 
useful to have. And there could be no guarantee when Mr and Mrs C took out this mortgage 
that they would always have savings to rely on because everyones circumstances can 
change unexpectedly. So, I still think PPI couldve been useful for them even if theyd had 
some savings at the time. 
Mr C couldve made repeated claims on the policy. So PPI provided long term cover whilst 
Mr and Mrs C had to pay their mortgage.    
I can see why Mr and Mrs C mightve wanted PPI  even if theyve forgotten this now. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time I think PPI was suitable for them 
 including having cover set up just for Mr C. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But looking what Mr and Mrs C told us about 
Mr Cs job situation and his health, it doesnt look as if the policy exclusions and limitations 
wouldve affected Mr C. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy 
didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
Its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold. I dont know if the PPI 
cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs C when they bought the policy. But they havent 
suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly premiums or that paying for this cover 
resulted in money problems for them. Ive found that they took out the policy when they 
didnt have to  so this makes me think that they were happy to pay for it at the time. The 
cost wouldve been the same if Mrs C had been covered instead or theyd shared the policy 
benefits. I hope that puts Mr and Mrs Cs mind at rest on that point.  
Looking at their circumstances and the benefits PPI offered, I think Mr and Mrs C still 
wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been better informed as it looks to me like 
the policy offered them useful protection in their particular situation. 
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs C told us, including 
everything theyve said in response to the adjudicators assessment. Although I havent 
responded in detail on every point raised, particularly where our adjudicator has already 
commented, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs C that I've thought carefully about everything 
theyve told us before coming to my final decision. 
It wouldve been up to Mr and Mrs C to keep their PPI arrangements under review once the 
policy was set up for them. Ive looked at what happened when Halifax sold them this PPI. 
So what theyve said about what happened later when they sold their house doesnt affect 
the outcome of their mis-sale complaint. 
After careful consideration, on balance, I dont find theres enough information overall for me 
to say that Halifax mis-sold this PPI to Mr and Mrs C. I dont think Mr and Mrs C have lost out as a result of anything Halifax did wrong. This means it doesnt need to do anything to 
put things right.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman