DRN-2897883
The complaint
The trustees of T, a registered charity, complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC has declined to 
refund the money lost when T fell victim to an APP scam. T is represented by its finance 
manager, Mrs L.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and I wont repeat it here in 
detail. In brief, its not disputed that Mrs L was contacted over email by a fraudster 
impersonating Ts chief executive and asking her to make a payment.
Ts chief executive was away on business at the time. The fraudster, presumably by means 
of intercepting Ts email communications, was aware of a legitimate payment due from T to 
another organisation. The email asked for a corresponding payment of £6,328.50 to be sent 
to a new set of account details. 
Mrs L checked the requested payment against Ts list of expected payments, confirming it 
matched a genuine payment that was due. She says it is not unusual for Ts payments to be 
sent to more than one recipient account, rather that is reasonably typical for T. So she says 
she had no concerns about this payment being to a new payee. Mrs L made the payment by 
CHAPS through Ts online banking facility.
The scam came to light a few days later when a further payment request was received by 
Mrs L - this time not corresponding to an expected payment. T notified Barclays of the scam. 
Barclays in turn attempted to recover the funds from the recipient account, but unfortunately 
none remained.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Barclays says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case. On that basis, Barclays has declined to provide any 
refund to T.
One of our investigators looked into Ts subsequent complaint. The investigator didnt think 
Barclays had established it could rely on the exceptions to reimbursement given in the CRM 
Code in this instance. 
Specifically, the investigator didnt find that Barclays had provided an effective warning, or 
that Mrs L, on behalf of T, lacked a reasonable basis of belief when making the payment. 
The investigator also noted that Ts internal processes for payment approval appeared to 
have been followed when the payment was made. The investigator recommended the 
complaint be upheld and the payment refunded in full.
Barclays disagreed with the investigators findings. I have therefore been asked to reach a 
final decision on the matter.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Barclays should have fully refunded the money T 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances, Barclays should fairly and reasonably refund the money T lost, 
less any sums already recovered and refunded.
The money was taken from Ts business current account and Im satisfied T has 
been deprived of money it would otherwise have paid to the intended organisation. 
So Barclays should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% 
simple per year from the date Barclays originally declined Ts claim under the CRM 
Code until the date of settlement.
I have carefully considered Barclays representations about the reasons it believes it has 
been able to establish that one or more of the exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM 
Code can fairly be applied here. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view. In 
particular I am not persuaded that T failed to take the requisite level of care required for 
Barclays to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Did T fail to follow its own internal procedures for approval of payments?
A potential exception to reimbursement can apply where the customer is a micro-enterprise 
or charity (as is the case here). This exception to reimbursement requires that the customer:
did not follow its own internal procedures for approval of payments, 
and those procedures would have been effective in preventing the APP scam. 
[my emphasis added] 
I believe the intent here is to catch situations where a customer has failed to follow its 
procedures and where it can also be established that this failure was material to the success 
of the scam. There are two parts to the test, and both must be established to show the 
exception can be applied. In other words, that the procedures were not followed and, further, 
that the failure to follow those procedures was material.
T states that its own internal procedures were followed here  the payment request being 
validated against a database of payments due. Barclays does not appear to be disputing 
this. Given the evidence Ive been provided, Im not satisfied Barclays has established the 
first part here  on balance I am persuaded T did follow its own internal procedures. 
In itself, this is sufficient for me to find that Barclays cannot fairly apply this exception. 
For completeness however I have gone on to consider Barclays further representations 
here. Barclays argues that Ts procedures were not adequate to prevent this type of scam. 
Now, even were I to agree with Barclays on that point, that would lead to the conclusion that 
the second element of the exception test is not met. Neither part of the test would therefore 
be met (and the exception requires both parts to be established). So, Barclays argument 
here does not alter my finding. Barclays has not established it can fairly apply this exception 
to reimbursement under the CRM Code.
For the avoidance of doubt, even were I to find those internal procedures were in some way 
defective  perhaps in not anticipating this type of scam - the evidence here doesnt persuade me that Barclays could fairly establish the separate exception to reimbursement 
relating to gross negligence.
Did T ignore an effective warning given by Barclays in compliance with the CRM Code?
Barclays says Mrs L would have seen the following when she was setting up the payment:
"New Beneficiary. Ensure new or amended bank account details are verified independently 
with the beneficiary, by using details held on file or confirmed verbally via a phone number 
you know and trust before making the payment. It is your responsibility to confirm the 
account number and sort code are correct.
I appreciate that, in displaying this message, Barclays took steps to provide T with an 
effective warning during this payment journey. However, despite this, Im not persuaded 
Barclays has demonstrated that this warning message met the minimum requirements of an 
effective warning under the CRM Code. 
The CRM Code sets out minimum criteria that a warning must meet to be an effective 
warning. In very broad terms, it requires that a warning will be capable of countering the 
typical features of the generic scam type identified during the payment journey.
The warning Barclays gave does appear directed at the prevention of invoice interception 
scams, and as such is appropriate to the type of scam risk Barclays identified. 
But Im not satisfied this warning did enough to counter such a scam risk. I dont consider it 
would bring to life what this type of scam might look like or outline how fraudsters carry out 
or go about such a scam. It could for example have explained that fraudsters often gain 
access to and monitor email accounts so as to impersonate someone and send emails from 
their email address (or similar).
I dont find the warning sufficient to make the nature of that scam risk apparent to a typical 
customer (including a microenterprise or charity) or give them enough information to allow 
the practical assessment of the level of that risk in a specific transaction.
I also dont consider the warning text would help a typical customer understand why reliance 
on some forms of communication would not mitigate the risk in the way they might otherwise 
believe (given most such scams involve compromises of communication, most commonly 
email).
In short, the warning fails to get across in an impactful way what an incipient risk of this type 
would look like for a customer who hasnt already recognised the scam they may be falling 
victim to.
Im also mindful that in order for the warning to meet the CRM Codes minimum 
requirements of an effective warning it should clearly set out the consequences of not 
taking the suggested steps in the warning. I dont find the warning given makes this 
sufficiently clear: for example setting out that the transaction will be irrevocable, and that if it 
proves not to be legitimate this will likely mean the funds cannot be recovered. So Im not 
satisfied Barclays warning met the requisite criteria here either.
Overall, I dont consider the warning given was an effective warning as defined by the CRM 
Code. It follows that Barclays has not established it can fairly apply the exception to 
reimbursement relating to ignoring an effective warning. Has Barclays established that T made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief?
In addition, Im not satisfied Barclays has established that T lacked a reasonable basis for 
belief when making this payment. I say this because:
- The payee details were provided in email correspondence appearing to have 
originated with the CEO of T. In placing her reliance on that email correspondence, 
Im satisfied Mrs L wasnt aware of the real risk it might not be genuine. Im also 
satisfied that Barclays warning did not make her aware of that specific risk. I dont 
think it was therefore unreasonable for Mrs L, when making this payment, to have 
believed she was sending payment to the intended payee on the instructions of the 
CEO of T;
- It further appears the payment request matched an anticipated payment in amount 
and payee  again making it not unreasonable for Mrs L to have believed this was a 
legitimate request;
- While there were some grammatical errors in the correspondence, email is inherently 
an informal means of communication. I dont find these minor errors sufficient to 
persuade me that Mrs L should reasonably have had concerns about its validity.
- Im satisfied that Mrs L had no other reason to find the payment request unusual or 
otherwise concerning. I consider that Mrs L acted reasonably in believing this to be a 
legitimate payment request.
To conclude, Im satisfied that Barclays should have reimbursed the money T lost under the 
terms of the CRM Code. I am not satisfied that any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Ts complaint 
about Barclays Bank UK PLC. I therefore require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay T:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £6328.50 less 
any sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount, calculated from the date Barclays 
originally declined Ts claim under the CRM Code until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman