DRN-3089228
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy as they believe Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should 
not have given them a mortgage. Theyve said the property they purchased had structural 
issues which shouldve meant Halifax did not agree to lend.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage with Halifax in September 2019. I understand they were 
purchasing a property that they were already living in as tenants. 
In 2021 they were looking to sell their property and move to a new one. They agreed a sale 
and had found a new property they wished to buy. The prospective buyers of their property 
applied for a mortgage, also with Halifax, but the valuation that was carried out as part of 
their mortgage application said the property wasnt suitable for mortgage purposes.
Mr and Mrs T complained to Halifax that it had made errors when lending to them in 2019. 
They said the valuation carried out during their mortgage application in 2019 shouldve 
identified the same issues with the property. And as a result, they thought Halifax shouldnt 
have agreed to lend. They said as a result of the errors by Halifax theyd lost out on the 
property they now wanted to buy, were forced to accept a lower offer for their property from 
a cash buyer and would now have to pay stamp duty that might otherwise have been 
avoided. Mr and Mrs T were also unhappy theyd need to pay an early repayment charge 
(ERC) to redeem their Halifax mortgage.
Halifax said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the survey carried out on its 
behalf had included a note to Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor about the need for certificates to be 
checked. And it couldnt be held responsible if this hadnt been done. Regardless though it 
felt the mortgage had been provided correctly.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed and asked our service to consider the complaint. They still felt 
Halifax hadnt acted responsibly and, based on information theyd received from Halifax as 
part of a subject access request, felt it also hadnt followed its own processes correctly.
One of our investigators looked into matters but didnt think Halifax had made an error. 
Mr and Mrs T did not agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed. As a result, it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When providing a mortgage Halifax has an obligation to make sure it lends responsibly. But 
this doesnt extend to providing advice about the property being purchased with the 
mortgage. Halifax will consider if the property is acceptable to it for a mortgage to be 
secured, in line with its lending criteria. But the decision to purchase a specific property lies 
with the borrowers, in this case Mr and Mrs T.
As part of considering Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage application, Halifax required a valuation of 
the property the mortgage was to be secured against  as is common industry practice. That 
valuation was for Halifaxs purposes  so it could decide if it was willing to lend or not. 
Mr and Mrs T had the option to instruct a more in-depth survey of the property if they chose. 
Halifax is not responsible for the actions of the surveyor, or the contents of its valuation 
report. Essentially it has requested the independent opinion of the surveyor. And I can only 
reasonably consider, and hold Halifax responsible for, actions it has carried out.
The surveyor that Halifax appointed appears to be appropriately qualified. So, I dont think 
Halifax acted incorrectly by appointing that surveyor. And I think it was entitled to rely on the 
surveyors opinion of the property when deciding to lend.
Ive seen a copy of the valuation carried out by the surveyor on Halifaxs behalf. This gave 
an estimation of the value of the property while including basic information about its 
construction. The value was high enough for the mortgage to be acceptable. And the 
valuation made no other statement that the property was not suitable for Halifaxs purposes.
The valuation did include a note for Mr and Mrs Ts conveyancers, that they needed to check 
that an acceptable certificate was in place in respect of a repair scheme. And I understand 
the certificate was not in place as the relevant repair scheme hadnt in fact been used, which 
is what has caused the issues Mr and Mrs T have faced more recently. I can understand 
why Mr and Mrs T are upset to have found this to be an issue now. But Halifax wasnt 
responsible for checking for the relevant certificate. The valuation makes this clear. And the 
valuation doesnt include any notes to Halifax or indications that there was a reason not to 
proceed with the lending.
So, in the circumstances, I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong by agreeing to lend, 
based on the information available to it.
Mr and Mrs T have said that they and their conveyancers did not receive a copy of the 
valuation at the time of the mortgage application. As Ive said the valuation was for Halifaxs 
purposes. So, I dont think it was unusual or unreasonable that a copy wasnt provided 
directly to Mr and Mrs T. As for their conveyancers, there seems to be conflicting information 
from the time about this, with notes Halifax has provided indicating that at one stage the 
conveyancers didnt have a copy but then that they were happy for matters to proceed. I 
cant comment on the actions of the conveyancers. And overall, I dont think any of this 
means Halifaxs decision to lend was incorrect.
Mr and Mrs T have pointed to information received from Halifax indicating that, where a 
property being purchased with a mortgage has a particular defect, it must take certain 
steps. They understand the issue now identified would fall into the relevant definition of 
defect. And theyve said Halifax didnt take the steps outlined. So, they think it has made an 
error. But this relies on the defect in terms of construction having been identified. And 
again, here the valuation didnt say there was anything wrong with the property. It noted the 
construction type. But not that there was any issue with the property. And while it indicated 
that Mr and Mrs Ts conveyancers should check relevant certificates were in place, again 
there was no indication Halifax needed to do anything further. So, I dont think I can 
reasonably say Halifax needed to do anything more here, before it provided the mortgage.
As a result, I cant reasonably ask Halifax to pay any of the costs or losses Mr and Mrs T 
have requested. And I dont think it needs to waive the ERC, in the event the mortgage is 
repaid, as this appears to be in line with the mortgage originally agreed.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman