DRN-3596628
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his car insurer Zurich Insurance PLC as hed found it impossible 
to contact, and then it cancelled his policy.
What happened
Mr M had a policy with Zurich. The policy was based on Mr M being a good driver and there 
was a gadget fitted to Mr Ms car which gathered data about how and when he drove, so that 
his driving behaviour could be assessed. 
A few months into the policy Mr M began receiving warnings that his driving score was 
negative. The warnings explained some of the key factors that might cause a negative score. 
It also explained that if the score continued that way over the following weeks  or 
reappeared on more occasions during the policy year, the policy would be cancelled. 
Mr M believed his score was negative because he was having to make lots of short trips due 
to personal circumstances. He tried to contact Zurich to talk about this but couldnt get 
through. The policy was subsequently cancelled and Zurich asked Mr M to pay it £211.14. 
Mr M had paid a deposit and made monthly premium payments. So he felt the final charge 
must be wrong as otherwise, altogether, Zurich would be taking well over half of the overall 
premium cost for five month of cover.
Zurich apologised for Mr M not being able to contact it and offered £100 compensation. But it 
felt its cancellation had been actioned in line with the policy terms. It also felt the sum 
charged following the cancellation had been calculated correctly in line with what the policy 
said it would charge. Mr M complained to us.
Our Investigator felt that whilst it was unfortunate that Mr M hadnt been able to contact 
Zurich, being able to contact it would likely not have changed anything. She noted the policy 
allowed Zurich to cancel where negative scores occurred and didnt think Zurich being 
informed of Mr Ms personal circumstances would have prevented that from occurring. She 
considered some detail from Zurich about how it prices cover. She was satisfied that the 
figure of £211.14 had been calculated in line with what the policy allowed. So she felt it was 
fair and reasonable. She didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr M was unhappy. He said if Zurich had been available he could have determined what it 
meant by short and long journeys  both of which Zurich says affect the driving score. He 
could then have explained the reasons for the journeys hed been taking. He didnt think the 
pricing was fair or ethical. And was unhappy as it seems to him as though Zurich can just get 
away with it. Mr M felt it was unreasonable for Zurich to offer compensation but still demand 
full payment. He said it seems that Zurichs service for this policy seemed based on only 
being able to be contacted when it wanted something from the policyholder, not when its 
policyholder needed assistance. Mr M felt it should be answerable for this type of 
exploitation. 
In further correspondence Mr M said he felt our Investigator had missed the point. He said if 
hed been able to speak to Zurich to find out what was meant by long and short journeys, he 
could have made changes. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr M to not be able to talk to Zurich. But being able to talk 
to it would not have changed what the policy allowed Zurich to do where negative scores 
were being achieved. And there is no discretion built into the cover which would allow Zurich 
to make exceptions for policyholders in certain circumstances.
I note Mr M has recently said if he could have understood more about the scoring process by 
talking to Zurich, hed have changed his habits. But I note he previously said taking lots of 
short journeys  the school run, calling to the pharmacy, and the supermarket  was 
unavoidable as he had to help his family. And whilst the policy doesnt set out what distance 
it sees a short journey as being, it is clear that it is a frequency of little trips that causes 
problems. And that seems to be exactly the type of driving Mr M has described he was doing 
and had no choice but to do given the circumstances at that time.
Zurichs pricing scheme, applicable to policies which cancel, is considered by the Financial 
Ombudsman to be significant and unusual. As such Zurich is expected to make it very clear 
to its prospective policyholders when cover is arranged. And I see Zurich did that here. It 
also sets the pricing out clearly in the policy terms. So whilst Mr M clearly thinks the pricing 
is unfair and unethical, it was drawn to his attention when the policy was arranged. So he 
had the opportunity to make an informed choice about whether or not to take out the cover. 
As such, Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably in this respect. 
But the actual way Zurich sets its pricing, and what it chooses to charge are matters of its 
commercial judgement. Matters like this dont fall for consideration by the Financial 
Ombudsman. That is because we are not the industry regulator. That is the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA looks at how businesses act in general, whereas our 
focus is on the individual complaint in question and whether, in those circumstances, the 
insurer failed its policyholder.
Looking at everything that happened here, I dont think Zurich did fail Mr M. Clearly Zurich 
would have been providing a better service to Mr M if it had been available to talk to him and 
if it had explained to him, when it asked for the final payment, how that figure was reached. 
But Zurich gave Mr M relevant information to decide whether or not to take out the cover, 
and, after he did, it acted in line with what the policy said it could do. I can understand why 
Mr M is frustrated with that, but I cant reasonably say Zurich failed Mr M.
Zurich though felt it should offer Mr M £100 compensation as it accepted there were two 
occasions when it should have communicated with Mr M but didnt. It said it would pay this to 
Mr M rather than take it off of the £211.14 Mr M had been asked to pay. I know this has 
concerned Mr M  that he thinks its silly for Zurich to pay him whilst he pays it more. But a 
policyholder, entitled to compensation, should be able receive the benefit of that amount and 
then choose what they wish to do with it. If Zurich pays Mr M £100 he might choose to put it 
towards the sum he owes, or spend it on something else. He wouldnt have that choice if 
Zurich insisted on deducting it from the outstanding balance. I think Zurich has acted fairly by 
offering the £100 to Mr M in this way. If he hasnt received that sum already but would like to 
have the benefit of it, he should contact Zurich.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. I do not make any award against Zurich Insurance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman