The complaint
Mr T complains about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) cancelled 
his car insurance policy. He also says it has unfairly kept money paid by him shortly before 
cancellation. 
What happened
Mr T made a claim on his car insurance policy in July 2019. On 13 August, he paid an 
additional charge to LV to change the car to be insured by the policy. Soon after this, on 19 
August, LV called Mr T to get the contact details for a passenger who was in the car with him 
at the time of the accident. 
As a result of things Mr T said in that call, LV wrote to him on 2 September to give him seven 
days notice of its decision to cancel his insurance policy, and that this would take effect from 
9 September. Mr T was also told hed need to pay a cancellation charge and that LV would 
retain the policy premium as hed made a claim on the policy before cancellation. 
On 10 September, LVs special investigations department wrote to Mr T. It referred to the 
call on 19 August but also a number of calls on 9 September. The letter tells Mr T that no 
further intimidating or threatening contact will be tolerated by LV and details some of the 
specific things that Mr T had said in those calls.
Mr T complained to LV but it didnt change its decision. However, it did agree to waive the 
cancellation charge. Mr T brought his complaint to our service. Hes unhappy that:
He had to pay an additional charge a few days before his policy was cancelled. This
is unfair if the intention was to cancel his policy at that point.
He wasnt given notice that his policy was being cancelled.
His car insurance policy has been recorded as cancelled by LV which is affecting the
premiums he has been quoted with other insurers.
LV says he was repeatedly threatening and aggressive towards its staff. So for that reason it 
cancelled the policy. It confirms it has recorded Mr Ts policy as being cancelled but states 
that no reason has been noted on any database.
Our investigator reviewed matters and didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. She thought LVs 
decision to cancel Mr Ts policy was reasonable in the circumstances and in line with the 
terms of the policy, having given Mr T enough notice to do so. She accepted that its decision 
to do this was made as a result of the phone call on the 19 August, so she didnt agree that 
LV should refund the money Mr T had paid it on 13 August to change the car insured on the 
policy. She also thought the way it had been recorded by LV was fair and reasonable. 
DRN-1324083Mr T didnt accept our investigators view. He says,
Im not happy. They can cancel all they want but to record my cancellation is just 
adding 1000£s to my premium EVERY YEARIn my opinion there isnt a valid reason 
to REPORT/RECORD the cancellation.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr T that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. And I think she set out the position clearly about why she didnt commend that Mr Ts 
complaint was upheld. So theres not much I feel I can usefully add to what has already been 
said.
Mr Ts policy says LV can cancel the insurance by giving 7 days notice if, 
you behave in a manner that makes it inappropriate for us to continue your insurance, 
e.g. if you harass or show abusive or threatening behaviour towards our staff. 
Ive listened to the relevant calls between Mr T and LV. Im not going to go into detail about 
them. But Mr T repeatedly and consistently used abusive language and made serious 
threats of violence, including sexual violence, against various LV staff members and their 
families. 
Having fairly identified a serious ground for cancelling the policy, LV sent Mr T written notice 
of this and then cancelled his policy. LVs decision to cancel was made in line with the policy 
terms. And I think its decision was a fair and reasonable one. It follows that, having 
cancelled the policy, LV is entitled to keep the premiums where a claim has been made  as 
here  including the additional premium Mr T paid on 13 August for the change in the car to 
be insured under the policy.
Finally, LV has recorded this accurately as a cancellation which is what Id expect it to do. 
The consequences of this  such as whether another insurer would charge Mr T more for 
having declared a cancelled policy of insurance  are not a matter for this decision. They are 
between Mr T and his future insurer(s).
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2020.Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman