DRN-3421090
The complaint
Ms M and Mr M complain through their representative that Everyday Lending Limited 
provided them with a loan they couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In April 2019 Everyday provided Ms M and Mr M with the following loan:
Loan Start 
DateLoan 
AmountTotal 
Amount 
PayableMonthly 
paymentsTerm
18/04/2019 £1,000 £2,034.72 £113.04 18 months
Ms M and Mr M paid the first three instalments, then got into arrears with the payments. 
From October 2019 they made an arrangement with Everyday to pay the loan at £15 a 
month. As of May 2021 there was an outstanding balance of £1,436. They complained to 
Everyday that the loan was unaffordable to them and that at the time of making the 
application they already had a poor credit record.
Everyday was initially approached by Ms M in June 2018 seeking a loan for a home 
extension. It declined her proposed application at that stage. She later approached it in 
April 2019 seeking a loan for a car. After reviewing her application, Everyday provided 
the above loan, on the basis that it was a joint loan.
Everyday said that its application process was to review Ms M and Mr Ms application and 
to carry out the following checks:
Obtaining and reviewing up to two months bank statements from a customer's 
primary bank account.
Obtaining and reviewing one month's payslip.
Conducting a Credit Search.
Carrying out a job check.
It obtained bank statements from Ms M and Mr Ms individual bank accounts and from their
joint account and documentation relating to child benefits and their mortgage. It used ONS
(Office of National Statistics) data to calculate their living expenses and independently
verified their incomes. It calculated that they had a monthly disposable income of around
£765 after paying their living expenses and credit commitments. It therefore assessed that
the loan was affordable.
Ms M and Mr Ms representative has provided an up to date credit report.
I issued a provisional decision. I said that I thought on the face of it Everydays checks 
showed the loan to be unsustainable, and, as it assessed itself, the issuing of the loan was 
high risk. So I said that Everyday should refund all interest and charges applied to the loan.
Both parties accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms M
and Mr M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms M and Mr M would have been able to do
so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Ms M and Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms M and Mr M undue
difficulty or significant adverse consequences. That means they should have been able to
meet repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments,
without failing to make any other payment they had a contractual or statutory obligation to
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on their financial
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms M and Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
As Ive noted above, in June 2018 Ms M approached Everyday about a possible loan for a 
home extension. She was seeking around £15,000 at the time. Everyday declined the 
application. But I think it significant that in its notes for the loan application in 2019 it said, 
High risk as very poor loan demo.. As part of its checks it obtained a single credit report 
for Ms M and Mr M. This disclosed that Ms M had default balances on at least eight 
loans/credit cards. Some of these were noted as being with a debt collector. I cant see that 
any provision was made for the repayment of any of these loans, except a couple noted 
arrangements to make minimal payments of £1 a month.
Whilst some of the defaults were two or three years old they were nevertheless in the 
record and hadnt been written off. Ms M had also had a number of payday loans in the 
past.
Everyday assessed that Ms M and Mr M were paying around £1,314 per month for 
credit commitments, though I think that was probably a modest assessment.
The report showed very few entries in Mr Ms name. This doesnt accord with what is shown 
in the credit report the representative provided at the time of making this complaint. I dont 
know if this was because the debts were in joint names, but as the reports were apparently 
carried out through the same credit reference agency they should have shown that both Ms 
M and Mr M had a long list of defaults.
More importantly, the credit report obtained by Everyday didnt show Ms M and Mr Ms 
two mortgages (although again the up-to-date one does). Mr M has advised that as of 
January 2019, their first and second mortgages were in arrears of respectively around 
£9,600 and £8,600. As Everyday was aware of these mortgages and apparently obtained 
information about them, it should have been able to see that there were those substantial 
arrears.
Ms M and Mr M provided details of their individual and joint bank accounts. Whilst these 
were not overdrawn, I would nevertheless observe that their joint incomes appeared to 
be fully committed.
I think the checks carried out by Everyday were proportionate. But I think the information
disclosed by those checks should have prompted Everyday to obtain more information about
Ms M and Mr Ms financial circumstances, particularly their mortgage arrears. And whilst
Everyday assessed the loans as affordable, I dont think the pounds and pence affordability
showed the full picture here. I think on the face of it Everydays checks showed the loan to
be unsustainable, and as it assessed itself, the issuing of the loan was high risk. And I 
dont think it was surprising themselves in difficulties over the repayment of the loan.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings I wont make any further comment. 
Those findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
As to what the appropriate remedy is, Ms M and Mr M have had the benefit of the loan 
and its fair that they should pay back the capital sum. But I think Everyday should refund 
the interest and any charges.Everyday should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Ms M and Mr M as payments towards the capital amount 
of £1,000.
If Ms M and Mr M have paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to them 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Ms M and Mr M.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Ms M and Mr Ms respective credit 
files.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Ms M and Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman