DRN-3300026
The complaint
Ms S has complained that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Ms S opened an Aqua credit card account with NewDay in December 2020. Her credit limit 
was set at £900. 
Ms S, through her representative, says that NewDay shouldnt have allowed her to open an 
account as she had a poor credit history and was struggling to pay off multiple loans and 
credit agreements. NewDay says it carried out all the necessary checks including a credit 
check. It said Ms S had nine defaulted accounts with the most recent being 37 months prior 
to the application and two adverse public records. It said that in the 30 months prior to her 
application Ms S had no payday loans and no accounts in arrears. NewDay said that Ms S 
credit limit wasnt increased and while she applied for a limit increase March 2021, this 
request was declined.
Our adjudicator thought that Ms S complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
information gathered by NewDay showed signs that Ms S was experiencing financial 
difficulty and that the checks carried out demonstrated that Ms S would have been unlikely to 
be able to make her repayments sustainably.
NewDay disagreed. It said Ms S' application was accepted after it was satisfied that she 
could afford the relatively small credit limit of £900. It said it had carried out sufficient checks. 
This case has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Before providing the credit card, NewDay carried out a credit check. This showed that Ms S 
had previously experienced financial difficulties. I note that NewDay has said it provides 
credit to consumers with adverse information recorded on their credit files and I also note 
that the defaults recorded were historic. However, given Ms S had nine defaults recorded in 
2016 and 2017 and also had two county court judgments in 2018 I think this should have 
raised concerns about Ms S ability to manage her finances.
I have looked through Ms S credit file to understand her situation further and I can see that 
although Ms S did have some active accounts that hadnt defaulted the majority of her 
accounts had gone into default. This included several mail order accounts, a credit card 
account and communications accounts. While she had settled some defaulted accounts, she 
still had nine that were active, and NewDays credit search showed these to have a total 
balance of £6,500. Although NewDays credit search suggested the adverse public records 
were at least 30 months old, the country court judgements were recorded in March and July 
2018 around 18 months before the Aqua credit card was provided. As NewDay noted, these 
had a total value of around £1,900. 
Taking the above information all into consideration, it shows Ms S had experienced financial 
difficulties from 2016 and while she may not have had arrears at the time of the application, 
she had had two county court judgements recorded within the previous two years. Ms S only 
non-defaulted active accounts at the time of application were a communications account, 
three bank accounts (one of which was recorded as inactive at the time of application) and a 
loan account. The loan was with a high cost credit provider and was taken out less than two 
months before the agreement with NewDay. This new loan suggested that Ms S was 
continuing to face some financial difficulties.
On balance, I find Ms S credit information suggested she had struggled financially for an 
extended period of time and I do not find the information from the time of the application was 
such that it showed her to be in a situation where further lending would be sustainably 
affordable. Therefore, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Ms S should 
pay back the amount she has borrowed. Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (which have 
not already been refunded) that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Ms S along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Ms S credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NewDay should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Ms S for the remaining amount. Once Ms S has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from their credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold Ms S complaint in part and direct NewDay Ltd to put things right in the way Ive set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman