DRN-4487955
The complaint
Mr S complains about Monzo Bank Ltd.
He says that Monzo didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of a scam 
and would like Monzo to refund him the money he has lost.
What happened
Mr S was contacted via WhatsApp by a company offering employment through driving traffic 
to products via digital marketing.
Mr S was persuaded to sign up to the opportunity as it seemed legitimate and profitable. He 
was advised that he needed to make payments to his account via cryptocurrency, and he 
would then receive his money back with commission on top after completing his tasks.
Mr S made the following successful payments. Mr S also attempted other payments, but 
these did not debit his account  or bounced back. 
Date Payee Amount
01/03/2023 Coinbase £100
01/03/2023 Coinbase £900
06/03/2023 Coinbase £2,700
07/03/2023 Mercuryo £4,600
Total loss £8,300
Unfortunately, this was a scam, and Mr S lost his money. 
Mr S complained to Monzo, but it didnt uphold is complaint, however it did say it took too 
long to investigate and offered Mr S £100 in recognition of this.
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to this Service. Our Investigator looked into things and 
thought that the complaint should be upheld in part. 
They said that Monzo should have intervened from the fourth payment and that the scam 
would have been uncovered  but they also thought Mr S hadnt been as careful as he 
should have been and said that both he and Monzo should share liability for this loss. They 
also said that Monzo should pay Mr S the £100 it offered if it had not already done so.
Mr S accepted this, but Monzo didnt reply. 
The Investigators view was sent on 26 October 2023, but despite being chased for a 
response, Monzo still hasnt responded.
Therefore, I will now issue a final decision on the matter with the information we already 
have on file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold 
this complaint in part, for broadly the same reasons as our Investigator. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I 
have taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr S when he authorised payments from his account or whether it could and should have 
done more before processing them. 
Did Monzo act fairly and reasonably in Mr Ss case?
Having considered the payments Mr S was making from his Monzo account prior to the 
scam taking place, I am not persuaded that Monzo should reasonably have been expected 
to intervene at this point. The payments were of relatively low value, and businesses cant be 
expected to intervene on every payment.
However, by the time Mr S made the payment of £4,600  I think that Monzo should have 
had concerns about what was going on  and it should have contacted Mr S to check if 
everything was as it should be.  
Prior to this payment, Mr S had attempted several large transactions which didnt debit his 
account  one of these payments was for £2,000 and the other for £5,050. Both of these 
were going to a crypto exchange. And while not every payment of this type is as a result of a scam, Monzo should be aware of how a scam of this type usually develops  including an 
increase in frequency and amount of payments over a few days.
With this in mind, Monzo should reasonably have contacted Mr S to establish whether the 
transaction posed any possibility of placing him in financial harm before processing it. But it 
did not do so. Had Monzo contacted Mr S, I wouldve expected it to have questioned him 
about the payment  including what he was making the payment for and surrounding context 
and to proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential fraud or 
scam.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr S was coached by the scammer or provided with 
a cover story as to what he was doing  so I think that he would have explained to Monzo 
that that he was making the payment as part of his employment to purchase tasks and 
receive commission.
This alone shouldve been a red flag to Monzo  and I think its likely that it would have 
immediately recognised this as a scam and provided Mr S with a meaningful warning that 
what he had told it had all the hallmarks of a scam. 
Had it done so, I dont think that Mr S would have ignored such a warning  and I dont think 
that he would have continued with the payment he was making. 
So, I think that Monzo missed an opportunity to prevent Mr Ss loss from this point. 
However, while I do consider that Monzo could have prevented the payment had it acted like 
I would expect, I do also need to consider if Mr S should bear some responsibility for the loss 
here too, by way of contributory negligence.
Having considered this, I think that liability for the loss should be shared on an equal basis 
between Mr S and Monzo. I say this because I think that Mr S could have done more to 
protect himself from the loss he suffered. He was contacted out of the blue by the scammer 
 and offered a suspiciously lucrative employment opportunity for which he was initially told 
he wouldnt need to part with any money, when this turned out not to be the case. 
Mr S also doesnt appear to have done any research into the supposed job or entered into 
any kind of pre-employment checks of interview process. His friend also informed him that it 
sounded like a scam, and when he said this to the scammer, I dont think it said anything 
that should reasonably have convinced Mr S that he was dealing with a legitimate business.
Putting things right
Monzo should pay Mr S 50% of £4,600.  
On top of this, it should also apply 8% simple interest from the date the payment was made 
until settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax).
It should also pay Mr S the £100 compensation it offered him if it hasnt done so already. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, Monzo should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Claire PughOmbudsman