DRN-1851643
 
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy how The Protection Specialist Limited, trading as The Fair Trade Practice 
(TFTP), dealt with a claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
What happened
In 2015, Ms C instructed TFTP to make a claim for mis-sold PPI against Lender B. But 
Lender B said Ms C hadnt been sold any PPI, so TFTP couldnt progress the claim. 
However, in 2019, Lender B said theyd got it wrong back in 2015 and Ms C had been mis-
sold PPI. They paid Ms C compensation for this mis-sale. TFTP invoiced Ms C for their fees, 
which they reduced from the 30% Ms C originally agreed to, to 24%.
Ms C has complained that TFTP are charging her for a claim that was successful only after 
her claim had been rejected and was closed. She doesnt think TFTP had any involvement in 
the claim being a success, so she doesnt think they should charge any fee. Shes also 
unhappy that TFTP contacted her ex-partner about the successful claim, and she thinks the 
fee reduction was a meaningless gesture because all PPI fees are now charged at 24%.
Our investigator said the successful claim was submitted by TFTP in 2015, and it was only 
because of an error by Lender B that the claim wasnt successful at the time. She said that, if 
it hadnt been for TFTP preparing and instructing the claim, Ms C wouldnt have received any 
compensation. So she thought TPTF were able to charge their fees.
The investigator also said TFTP tried to contact Ms C using the landline phone number they 
had on file for her. But this number was for where Ms C used to live with her ex-partner. 
Because TFTP werent aware that Ms C had moved the investigator said that, although 
unfortunate, TFTP hadnt done anything wrong by using these contact details. She thought 
their apology for this was sufficient, and she didnt think TFTP needed to do anything more.
Finally, the investigator said that the 20% plus VAT fee for all PPI claims only came into 
force for new claims in July 2018. And, because Ms C instructed TFTP in 2015, the 30% fee 
she agreed to could be charged. She thought TFTP had acted reasonably by reducing their 
fee, and she didnt think any further reduction was needed.
Ms C didnt agree with the investigator. She says that TFTP shouldnt have put the claim to 
Lender B in the first place, because they hadnt established if shed been mis-sold PPI 
before making the claim. And if they had done this, they shouldve challenged Lender B in 
2015, instead of just accepting this.
She also feels that the contract and Letter of Authority (LOA) shouldve ended six months 
after Lender B rejected the claim in 2015, so its no longer valid and they dont have any 
legal basis to ask her for any money.Finally shes said that TFTP tried unsuccessfully to contact her on her mobile before trying 
her ex-partner, and they tried to contact him again after hed said he wasnt in contact with 
Ms C. So shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and while I appreciate 
this will be a disappointment to Ms C; Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen a copy of the LOA Ms C signed when she instructed TFTP on 27 March 2015. In 
signing this, Ms C agreed that TFTP would act for her in her PPI claims against Lender B 
and confirmed that shed read and accepted their Terms and Conditions.
These terms say if we have sent a complaint to a lender who informs us that you did not 
have PPI, or for some other reason will not make an offer of a financial award to you for that 
complaint, but the subsequently make such an offer, then you will still have to pay our fee. 
The terms also confirm TFTPs fees as 25% of any financial award plus VAT.
TFTP started the claims process against Lender B, as instructed. Part of the claims process 
is establishing whether PPI had been sold. If it had, then Id have expected TFTP to discuss 
any potential mis-sale with Ms C before progressing the claim. This is usually done by 
completing a PPI questionnaire. But, because Lender B said Ms C hadnt been sold PPI, 
TFTP didnt move to the questionnaire stage. 
I dont think that TFTP did anything wrong by following this process, and I wouldnt expect 
them to challenge Lender Bs decision unless they had some proof the PPI has been sold. 
From what Ive seen, neither Ms C or TFTP have said that they had any proof of a PPI sale 
in 2015. So TPFT acted reasonably by accepting Lender Bs decision.
But Ms C had been mis-sold PPI. And Lender B said she hadnt even been sold PPI. This 
was an error by Lender B, and I cant hold TFTP responsible for this error.
If Lender B hadnt made the error, the claim wouldve been successful, and Ms C wouldve 
received her compensation in 2015. TFTP wouldve then invoiced her for their fees, and 
there wouldve been no argument that these fees were rightfully due.
But Lender B had made an error. In their letter of 4 November 2019, they explained that 
TFTP had started the claim process for Ms C, but theyd incorrectly told them that Ms C 
didnt have any PPI. And, in a follow up letter dated 25 November, Lender B said theyd 
reviewed the claim and, because PPI had been mis-sold, theyd now be paying Ms C almost 
£3,500 compensation. Lender B said this decision had been based on the information 
provided by both TFTP in 2015 and the questionnaire completed by Ms C in 2019.
And Lender B sent copies of both of these letters to TFTP. This shows me that Lender B still 
recognised the LOA signed by Ms C in 2015 as being valid. It hadnt ended six months after 
Lender B had originally rejected the claim. And, even if it had, the terms Ms C agreed to, as 
detailed above, mean that in these circumstances TFTP are still entitled to charge a fee.
For this reason, I agree TFTPs fee is rightfully due; as it wouldve been in 2015 if Lender B 
hadnt said Ms C hadnt been sold PPI. TFTP charge a percentage success fee, not a fee 
based upon the amount of work they actually do. This means that, where a claim was 
successful, TFTPs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. So, just because TFTPs fee is higher than the value of the work they have done for Ms C, this 
doesnt make their fee unjustified.
Once TFTP knew the claim had been successful, they tried to contact Ms C. In her email of 
16 December 2019 Ms C said theyd tried to call her on her mobile on more than one 
occasion, but she hadnt answered. So they tried to call her on the landline number they had 
on file for her. But Ms C no longer lived at the address she had in 2015, and TFTP were 
calling her ex-partner.
Ms C has said that TFTP called her ex-partner on 26 November, 10 December and 18 
December 2019. She says that her ex-partner had told TFTP on 23 November 2019 that Ms 
C no longer lived there, so she doesnt think TFTP shouldve called the number again. While 
Ive no doubt that, to the best of her knowledge, what Ms C says is true. But I havent heard 
any recordings of these calls, so I cant comment on what was actually said.
What I have seen is that, in her email of 16 December, Ms C asked TFTP not to contact her 
ex-partner. But she didnt say what number related to her ex-partner. She asked again in a 
follow up email of 18 December, but again didnt say what number not to use. TFTP followed 
this email up, and asked Ms C to confirm what number not to use. She told them, and they 
didnt call the landline number again.
When Ms C instructed TFTP to act for her in 2015, the Terms of Engagement said their fee 
was 30% (25% plus VAT). Since Ms C instructed TFTP, theyve reduced their fee to 24% 
(20% plus VAT). While theyre still entitled to charge the higher rate, TFTP have reduced 
their fee to the lower rate. 
I appreciate that being contacted by her ex-partner about the TFTP contact was upsetting for 
Ms C, and wasnt something she wanted to happen. But Ms C didnt tell them what number 
not to use until 18 December 2019, so I cant say TFTP acted unreasonably by using contact 
numbers they had on file as being valid before then. Saying that, TFTP have apologised for 
this, and have reduced their fees by £230. This is in line with what I wouldve asked them to 
do so, in the circumstances, I think its reasonable and I wont be asking them to reduce, or 
waive, their fee any further.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint about The Fair Trade 
Practice Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman