DRN-3246843
The complaint
Mrs W, as an executor of the late Mr Ws estate, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
lent to the late Mr W irresponsibly and wont refund disputed payments made from the late 
Mr Ws account. 
All of the executors have brought the complaint to our service, but as most of the 
submissions have been made by Mrs W, Ill refer to her in the decision.
What happened
In 2009, the late Mr W was approved a £10,000 overdraft facility on his Classic account. In 
April 2014, this limit was increased to £12,000, then increased further (temporarily) to 
£42,000. In May 2014 a large deposit was made to the account which brought the balance 
back within its £12,000 limit. And finally in August 2014, the limit was increased to £13,000.
What Mrs W says
Mrs W says that Lloyds acted irresponsibly by approving a £10,000 overdraft limit in the first 
place, as well as allowing the later increases to the limit.  Shes not satisfied that Lloyds 
carried out affordability checks, and feels the overdraft facility was inappropriate for the late 
Mr W. She also asked how the late Mr Ws savings account had gone into overdraft, which 
shouldnt be possible for a savings account.
Mrs W also raised concerns about activity on the late Mr Ws Classic account, particularly 
some large transactions including some cash withdrawals made in 2014. Mrs W feels 
someone mayve taken advantage of the late Mr W or he mayve been the victim of a scam 
and feels Lloyds shouldve intervened and stopped the payments.
What Lloyds says
Lloyds says the branch where the cash withdrawals were made has closed and they have no 
records. But there were processes in place should the staff have had any concerns about 
the payments the late Mr W made.
And that as the overdraft facility was approved for over £5,000 it wouldve been referred to a 
specialist team. Due to the time thats passed they have no documentation or affordability 
assessment information from when the facility was first approved. But they wouldve spoken 
to the late Mr W to discuss his needs and personal circumstances. And any approval 
wouldve taken into account the purpose of the facility, the late Mr Ws income, assets and 
liabilities at the time.  With regards to the temporary increase they wouldve considered the 
late Mr Ws account conduct, the purpose of the funds and the repayment source. 
They said that prior to the Power of Attorney being registered in 2019, there wasnt any 
evidence or information that the late Mr W was not capable or able to operate his own 
accounts.
But Lloyds refunded £4,971.23 in overdraft fees and charges by writing off the overdrawn 
balance on the savings account.
Mrs W wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigation so far
An investigator looked into the estates concerns but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator explained there was no evidence that the late Mr W was the victim of a scam or 
lacked capacity to manage his accounts at the time, so we couldnt fairly ask Lloyds to 
refund the payments theyre disputing. And, the overdraft lending wasnt irresponsible or 
unaffordable, based on the funds the late Mr W held in his investment portfolio with Lloyds at 
the time. 
Mrs W on behalf of the estate disagreed with the investigators opinion. She felt the length of 
time the late Mr W held the overdraft facility suggested irresponsible lending and that Lloyds 
should have records about the approval and affordability checks completed. She also felt 
Lloyds shouldve prevented the payments being disputed as they were unusual and out of 
character.
As Mrs W disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take in account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.  Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Ive started by looking at whether I can fairly ask Lloyds to refund the transactions that the 
estate are disputing.
Have Lloyds acted fairly in processing the payments in dispute?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Lloyds made the 
payments, it was complying with the late Mr Ws instructions. 
Mrs W has raised concerns that either the late Mr W was the victim of a scam or was taken 
advantage of. She says the payments in question were unusual and out of character and as 
such Lloyds shouldve intervened and prevented the payments from being made. 
In particular Mrs W has raised concerns about two payments in March 2014, which were 
paid to the same person. The first payment was for just under £8,000 and the second 
payment was for £27,000. Shes also highlighted some cash withdrawals made from the 
account between May and July 2014, which total just under £13,000.There is an obligation on Lloyds to be on the lookout for, and to protect its customers from, 
potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring accounts and identifying 
suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of character. In situations that potential 
fraud is identified, I would expect Lloyds to intervene and attempt to prevent losses for the 
customer. But that intervention is based on there being evidence of a fraud or scam, which 
Im not satisfied there is in this case. While Mrs W feels the late Mr W was potentially the 
victim of a scam, there is no clear evidence to support this. 
The branch that the cash withdrawals were made from closed some years ago, and there 
are no staff who worked at that branch currently working at Lloyds. As such, Lloyds says 
theyve been unable to get testimony or evidence from the branch staff. But, they say there 
were processes in place should staff have had concerns about the payments being made. 
Lloyds have contact notes in relation to the late Mr W wanting to make the payment for 
£27,000, for which he applied to increase his overdraft facility temporarily. These notes detail 
several discussions between the late Mr W and his premier banking manager, including what 
is happening, what the purpose of the payments was and a discussion about several ways in 
which the overdraft could be cleared. The late Mr W explored options for clearing the 
increased overdraft including taking funds out of his investment portfolio and possible 
clearance from an external source. Its worth noting that these decisions took place over a 
couple of days, as the late Mr W wanted to consider the different repayment options. This 
suggests that he took time to consider what he was doing. And, there is nothing in the notes 
that suggests to me the late Mr W was the victim of a scam. 
Unfortunately, we do have limited information in this case. But I havent seen anything that 
persuades me I can safely or fairly conclude that the late Mr W was the victim of a scam.
Mrs W also raised a concern that the late Mr W mayve been taken advantage of. Shes told 
us about a medical condition that the late Mr W was diagnosed with in 2018. Mrs W says the 
doctor told her that its likely the condition developed over the course of five to seven years 
prior to his diagnosis. So, Mrs W feels the effects of this medical condition couldve been 
effecting the late Mr W as early as 2012. And such effects couldve impacted his capability to 
handle his finances or made him vulnerable to being taken advantage of.
But there is no definitive evidence that shows the late Mr W was rendered incapable of 
managing his accounts when these transactions took place. Or that there was any indication 
to the bank that they should have been concerned or intervened before processing these 
payment requests. I realise that it is possible that the late Mr W mayve been suffering from a 
medical condition, but Im unable to safely reach the conclusion that he was and on a basis 
that meant Lloyds shouldve realised and intervened. There are no contact notes that 
suggest any vulnerability identified at the time, and Lloyds say they were unaware of his 
vulnerability until they received a Power of Attorney in relation to the handling of his finances 
in 2019. 
Therefore, I cant fairly conclude that Lloyds acted unreasonably by processing the 
payments and cant ask them to refund the late Mr W. 
Have Lloyds acted irresponsibly in approving the late Mr Ws overdraft facility or the 
increases in the limit?
The overdraft facility was set up in 2009 and Lloyds have told us that due to the amount of 
time that has passed, they dont have any records or information relating to the original 
approval of the facility. However, theyve told us that an application wouldve been subject to 
several checks including the late Mr Ws income, assets and liabilities. I wouldve expected Lloyds to do proportionate checks including making sure that the late Mr W could sustainably 
repay the lending.
An overdraft is an ongoing arrangement and can be withdrawn at any time with notice, in line 
with the accounts terms and conditions. From Ive seen the late Mr W had an investment 
portfolio with Lloyds at the time the overdraft facility was granted, and in 2014 he withdrew 
£55,000 from that portfolio to repay the temporary overdraft limit increase. Based on this I 
think its more likely than not the late Mr W held sufficient funds with Lloyds in 2009 to fully 
repay the overdraft facility if it was withdrawn. So, I cant fairly say Lloyds acted irresponsibly 
in granting the overdraft facility as the late Mr W could show he could sustainably repay it.
Ive also considered the increases both temporary and permanent that were made to the 
facility in 2014.  As Ive already explained the temporary limit increase to £42,000 was 
cleared when the late Mr W withdrew funds from his investment portfolio of £55,000. Having 
looked at account statements for a few months prior to the first increase in 2014, the late   
Mr Ws account was generally maintained in credit, with him only using the facility a couple 
of days a month. 
Based on what Ive seen I cant fairly say that Lloyds acted irresponsibly in giving him the 
increases both temporary and permanent to his overdraft facility. As the late Mr W was in a 
position to sustainably repay them from the funds he held in investment.
Mrs W feels that because the late Mr W had and used his facility over a number of years, 
that Lloyds have acted unreasonably. She feels the facility shouldnt have been allowed to 
continue for that length of time. But, based on the late Mr Ws previous banking relationship 
with Lloyds and his previous account conduct, I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably 
leaving the facility in place. Mrs W has referred to the late Mr Ws vulnerabilities making the 
continuation of the facility inappropriate. But as Ive already explained, Im not satisfied that 
Lloyds were aware of any vulnerabilities that would suggest the late Mr W was incapable of 
managing his accounts. So, I cant fairly say it was unreasonable for Lloyds to allow the 
facility to continue.
Why did the late Mr Ws savings account become overdrawn?
Mrs W raised concerns about the late Mr Ws savings account being allowed to become 
overdrawn. But having reviewed the statements, this was due to the overdraft interest and 
charges from the Classic account (on which the overdraft facility was set up) being 
transferred and debited from his savings account. I cant see that the savings account went 
overdrawn due to withdrawal of funds, or the late Mr Ws use of it. 
The charges relate to the agreed facility on the other account, so wouldve been payable by 
the late Mr W. Its unclear why they were set up to come out of his savings account, but I 
cant see that the late Mr W has suffered a loss as a result - as it didnt cause any additional 
fees or charges on the savings account. And Lloyds has already written off the overdrawn 
balance on the savings account, which is more than I wouldve recommended.
I appreciate that the executors and Mrs W are very disappointed with Lloyds and feel they 
havent acted fairly for a number of reasons. However, having reviewed everything, there is 
insufficient evidence that Lloyds were aware of the late Mr Ws possible vulnerabilities. So, I 
cant fairly say Lloyds has acted unreasonably in all the circumstances or that they shouldve 
intervened. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman