DRN-2201412
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the amount Scottish Widows Limited settled her late husbands life 
assurance policy claim for.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E both held decreasing term assurance policies with Scottish Widows to cover 
their mortgage. In October 2019, after re-mortgaging, they realised there was a short-fall in 
their cover of around £20,000. So, on 23 October 2019 Mrs E rang Scottish Widows to take 
out additional cover.
After discussing the options with an advisor, Mrs E asked to apply for a new level term policy 
for both her and her husband to cover their entire outstanding mortgage balance, replacing 
their existing policies. But IT issues meant the Scottish Widows advisor couldnt complete 
the application process and Mrs E asked for a call back when this was resolved. The advisor 
called Mrs E back the same day but explained the IT issues were ongoing and arranged to 
call back two days later. Mrs E was driving when she received this call, and so 
Scottish Widows said it would try again another time.
 
Scottish Widows said it then called again on 12 November 2019 but there was no answer. 
Mrs E said she was abroad for two weeks at the beginning of November, but she didnt 
receive any calls or voicemails from Scottish Widows.
Sadly, in late November 2019 Mr E passed away. So, Mrs Es daughter contacted 
Scottish Widows to make a claim. Mrs E asked Scottish Widows to pay the claim for the 
entire mortgage amount, including the additional £20,000, as this was the cover she would 
have had in place if there hadnt been IT issues. But it refused, so Mrs E complained.
 
Scottish Widows didnt agree to pay a claim for the entire mortgage amount and said it would 
only pay the amount covered by the existing policy. Scottish Widows noted the application 
for the new policy was never completed. It also said that its not known what additional 
information or checks would have been needed. 
Mrs E remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold this complaint. So, Mrs E asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by saying Im very sorry for Mrs E and her familys loss. Everyone agrees that 
the new policies werent in place when Mr E died. But I think Mrs Es point here is that she 
feels they would have been had Scottish Widows not made mistakes. So, Ive looked at what 
happened and whether Scottish Widows acted reasonably.
Its unfortunate that the Scottish Widows advisor had IT issues on the day Mrs E tried to 
apply for the new policies. But unforeseen issues such as this do arise, and I dont think the 
advisor could have done anything further. I also dont think the IT issues were ongoing for an 
unreasonable length of time. And I think reasonable efforts were made to update Mrs E and 
then to contact her a few days letter to progress the applications. So, I dont think Scottish 
Widows acted unfairly here.
 
It wasnt a convenient time for Mrs E to talk when she was called a few days later and so the 
Scottish Widows advisor suggested theyd try again another time. Scottish Widows has said 
another call was attempted but Mrs E said she didnt receive any calls. Where evidence is 
incomplete or conflicting, I need to decide whats most likely to have happened. 
Scottish Widows has told us its system did show a call to Mrs E on 12 November 2019, but 
the record wasnt available by the time our service asked to consider it. But I do think its 
relevant Scottish Widows was able to provide a specific date  it adds weight to its account 
here. Ive also noted Mrs E was abroad at the time Scottish Widows said it called, which 
might offer some explanation as why she didnt receive the call. Given this, on balance, I 
think its likely this call was made. So, I dont think Scottish Widows did anything wrong here 
either.
 
But even if I were to say that the call didnt happen and that Scottish Widows made a 
mistake in not calling Mrs E back, Id then need to consider the impact of this error. And I 
cant say its likely this phone call would have led to Mr and Mrs E taking out the policies 
before Mr Es passing a few weeks later. Whilst I agree it was clearly Mrs Es intention to 
take out these policies, I cant say if Mrs E would have answered this call or that shed have 
been able to talk. I note she was abroad for the first two weeks in November 2019 which 
arguably made this less likely. And even if the application details were taken, its not known 
what additional checks and information requests Scottish Widows may have needed to make 
in order to consider the application. 
Taking everything to account, whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to 
Mrs E, I dont think Scottish Widows has acted unreasonably in not paying her the claim 
value for the policy she intended to take out. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman