DRN-3732919
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about how Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. handled their request in relation to their travel insurance policy.  
Reference to Mapfre includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in June 2020 Mr and Mrs B renewed their worldwide, annual 
travel insurance policy underwritten by Mapfre. The policy started on 1 August 2020 and  
covered a number of declared medical conditions. Mr and Mrs B paid a premium of 
£3,677.84. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mapfre offered cover for 15 months, rather 
than 12 months. So, the cover was extended until 1 November 2021. Ill refer to that 
policy as policy one. 
In January 2021, Mr and Mrs B considered cancelling their policy but didnt think that the 
pro rata refund offered by Mapfre was sufficient. They decided to keep the policy and 
expected that the travel ban to the USA would be lifted. They travelled on a European 
cruise in October 2021. 
At renewal in 2021, Mr and Mrs B asked whether Mapfre would provide cover for 15 
months, rather than 12 months but were told that wasnt possible. Mr and Mrs B renewed 
their policy, which ended on 31 October 2022. Ill refer to that policy as policy two.
Mr and Mrs B say that they were unable to travel to the USA for the whole period of 
policy one, as restrictions remained in place until 8 November 2021. They also say that 
there were in lockdown and unable to travel for a large portion of the relevant time.       
Mr and Mrs B thought it was reasonable to ask Mapfre to extend policy two for three 
months, given the restrictions on travel at the time of policy one.  
In the complaint form, Mr and Mrs B asked that Mapfre extend policy two by another 
three months. They said that if theyd bought an annual policy for Europe only, the cost 
would have been considerably lower. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Mapfre had 
treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly. The investigator didnt think that Mapfre was obliged to 
offer a three month extension to policy two. He said that whilst travel to the USA was 
restricted it wouldnt be fair to ask Mapfre to extend policy two.
The investigator said that where theres been a request to cancel a policy and no trips 
were taken, our usual approach is to ask the insurer to offer a pro-rata refund. He said 
that Mapfre offered a pro rata refund in January 2021 in relation to policy one and        
Mr and Mrs B declined that offer. The investigator said that as Mr and Mrs B had 
travelled in October 2021, before the end of policy one, he couldnt ask Mapfre to honour 
that offer. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. They said that their main point was that 
they bought policy one to travel to the USA , which wasnt possible. So, the policy wasnt 
fit for purpose. Mr and Mrs B say that they no longer require a three month extension of  
policy two. They say that they should have asked Mapfre for a partial refund of policy 
one. Mr and Mrs B say that a policy covering only Europe would have cost a lot less. 
Mr and Mrs B asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Bs 
main concern isnt the cancellation of the policy, but I set out here the relevant part of the 
policy in relation to cancellation as it shows the rights and obligations between the parties. 
Cancelling this policy
Your right to cancel cooling off period
You have a 14 day 'cooling off' period from receipt of your documentation where 
during such time, should you decide the terms and conditions of the policy do not 
meet your requirements and provided you have not travelled or claimed on the policy, 
you can ask AllClear for a full refund. To request cancellation of your policy contact 
us on [].
Should you wish to cancel your policy outside of the 14 day cooling off period or 
where a change to your existing policy means we are unable to continue with your 
cover, then the following terms apply:
[]
Annual multi-trip policies - Provided you have not made a claim (irrespective of 
whether your claim was successful or not) on the policy and you confirm in writing 
that there is no claim pending, should you choose to cancel and understand that all 
benefits of the policy will be cancelled, we will refund 5% of the total premium paid, 
for each full calendar month remaining on the policy from the date of cancellation.
[]
has Mapfre acted unfairly?
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint because I dont think that Mapfre treated them 
unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because:   
Ive set out above the relevant cancellation rights in the policy. Essentially, after the 
14 day cooling off period and provided a claim hasnt been made, Mapfre will refund 
5% of the total premium paid for each full calendar month remaining on the policy. 
That doesnt assist Mr and Mrs B here as they decided not to cancel policy one.
Covid-19 was an unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties to the 
insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Bs 
contract with Mapfre to be performed. I dont agree that policy one wasnt fit for 
purpose because of restrictions on travel to the USA. Ill explain why. Mr and Mrs B were insured from 1 August 2020, for travelling on any number of trips 
of up to 45 days duration which they may have taken until the end of the policy on     
1 November 2021. Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an 
insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips Mr and Mrs B took (unless they 
made a claim under the policy). There may have been many trips or there may have 
been none, but Mapfre was covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy was 
in force.
The price set by Mapfre covered Mr and Mrs B for cancellation of any holidays which 
they  had booked and were due to take from 1 August 2020 until 1 November 2021. 
So, Mr and Mrs B would have been covered if they had to cancel any number of 
holidays because of any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, 
falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition. 
So, Mapfre covered the risk of Mr and Mrs B making a successful cancellation claim 
for any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of 
holidays, from 1 August 2020 until 1 November 2021. Its a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what  
Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Mapfre to retain any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered and its not obliged to offer a further extension 
on a subsequent policy.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. In all the circumstances, I think the offer Mapfre made to extend policy one 
for three months was fair. In January 2021 Mapfre also offered a pro rata refund. I 
think Mapfre acted fairly and reasonably. Mr and Mrs B took a trip in October 2021, 
just before the end of policy one, so its not appropriate to ask Mapfre to refund any 
premium in relation to policy one nor to extend cover on policy two (which I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs B no longer require).  
Mr and Mrs B say with the benefit of hindsight that if theyd taken out a Europe only 
policy at the time of policy one it would have cost them considerably less. That 
doesnt alter the outcome here. For the reasons Ive explained, theres no basis on 
which I can fairly uphold their complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman