DRN-1987924
The complaint
Mr W on behalf of L says Santander UK Plc (Santander) should have done more to 
prevent him from becoming the victim of a banking payment scam. He says it should 
reimburse him for the money he lost.
What happened
On 23 April 2019 at 14:45pm, Mr W authorised an online payment of £3,190 to an individual 
payee. The payment was intended as a deposit for a welfare cabin/unit that Mr W needed 
for some work that was coming up. Mr W had initially seen the item through a vendor 
website but had made the payment outside of that platform, setting up and paying a new 
payee directly through faster payments from his business account. 
Later on that day, Mr W called Santander to say that the individual advised they hadnt 
received the funds. Mr W wondered if there was a delay with the payment as he had initially 
transferred some money from an ISA into his personal account and then transferred that 
money into the business account to then make the payment. 
The adviser explained that with faster payments the worst-case scenario for it arriving at the 
other bank or individuals account is that it can arrive at the close of business the next day. 
The adviser then does a further check and informed Mr W that the receiving bank had 
received it at around 17:20pm. The adviser then goes on to explain that if the person hasnt 
received it the next day Santander can provide Mr W with a reference number for the 
beneficiary to then use with their bank, to help it trace the faster payment.
Mr W then called Santander then next morning (24 April 2019) at around 9:30am to query 
the payment, as the individual had explained to Mr W that the funds had still not been 
received. The adviser re-iterated that the funds can take up to until the end of the day to 
become available. Mr W explained what he had been told the day before  that the receiving 
bank had received the funds yesterday at 17:20pm and that the individual hadnt yet 
received them into his account. The adviser explained that it may have to do with something 
on the other banks end, as the funds had been sent by Santander and received by the 
beneficiary bank. Mr W then asked for, and was provided with, a reference number that he 
could pass on to the individual to use with their bank. 
The payment Mr W made to the individual was credited to the individuals account by the 
beneficiary bank at 10:24am on 24 April 2019 and was withdrawn by the individual at 
11:26am.
Mr W then received multiple emails from the vendor site on 25 April 2019 warning Mr W 
about the seller and that the item was a stolen item which had been relisted. But as Mr W 
made the payment outside of the vendor sites platform  it wasnt able to assist him further. 
And Mr W wasnt able to contact the scammer further.
Mr W then contacted Santander on 25 April 2019 to let them know he had been a victim of a 
scam and to see if anything could be done to recover the payment.
Santander contacted the beneficiary bank (the bank used by the scammer) to report the 
scam, but as the funds had been withdrawn from the account it was unable to recover any 
funds for Mr W. 
Santander, after investigating the fraud claim, also considered it wasnt responsible for 
Mr Ws loss as it considered Mr W had made and authorised the payment willingly.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr W brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as they didnt think Santander 
ought to have done more to identify the payment as potentially fraudulent in the 
circumstances. And they felt Santander couldnt have reasonably done anymore to try and 
recover the funds from the beneficiary bank as the funds had already been withdrawn prior 
to the scam being reported. 
Mr W disagreed with the investigators assessment. Mr W considered that he had transferred 
an amount from his personal ISA into the business account to make the payment which is 
something he hadnt done before and was therefore unusual.
Mr W also thought that as he had contacted Santander on two occasions as the payment 
hadnt reached the individuals (scammers) account, when the beneficiary bank had actually 
received it, it should have alerted Santander to the possibility that something wasnt right. 
Mr W strongly considered that had Santander acted sooner then it could have recovered all 
of the money.  
As the matter hasnt been resolved its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint and for broadly the same reasons as 
the investigator. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Mr W authorised the transfer in dispute and thats accepted by all parties. 
And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 that means Mr W is responsible for it. 
That remains the case even though Mr W was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction, even though it may
have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Santander have certain
obligations to protect customers from fraud.In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr W when he made a payment of £3,190 to a new payee, or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything remarkable about 
the payment or the amount that ought to have alerted Santander to the possibility Mr W was 
being scammed. While I appreciate Mr W had made a transfer from his personal ISA to 
make the payment for the deposit  I dont think this is necessarily unusual or is something 
that would have given Santander cause for concern. People often transfer an amount from a 
savings account when they wish to make a larger purchase as is the case here. 
Also, having looked at the amount of the payment alongside other activity on Mr Ws 
business account it isnt wholly out of character. As it was a business account, I can see 
from the statements provided, Mr W made and received faster payments frequently which 
suggests to me that such activity wasnt particularly unusual. So, I think the fact that 
Santander didnt flag the payment as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr W says he had called Santander twice to check what had happened to 
the payment  as the scammer had said they hadnt received the funds. And Mr W feels 
Santander could have done more and should have been aware that something might not 
have been quite right. I understand Mr Ws point but having listened to the calls I dont think 
there was anything there to alert Santander that Mr W was, or had been, scammed. 
Mr W called Santander on two occasions, once on 23 April 2019 in the evening and once on 
24 April 2019 in the morning to see the status of the payment. In short, Santander on both 
occasions explained the payment had been sent and had been received by the beneficiary 
bank at 17:20pm on 23 April 2019. And Santander explained that it was the beneficiary bank 
delaying crediting the intended individuals account. There wasnt anything in the calls that 
would have alerted Santander that Mr W had been scammed into making the payment.
Overall, and while I appreciate Mr Ws been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think 
Santanders decision not to refund him in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mr Ws instruction to make the payment and I 
havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And I can see it took steps to try 
and recover the funds once it was notified of the scam  but unfortunately the funds had 
already been withdrawn prior to it being notified of the scam.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W, on behalf of 
L, to accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman