DRN-2476422
The complaint
Ms T says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store card she took 
out at a well-known retail store in 2002. The account was branded with the name of the 
retailer and the credit facility was provided by a bank. However, a company called AXA 
France IARD is now responsible for answering Ms Ts complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to AXA throughout this decision.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this case in December 2020, setting out why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld.  And I asked both parties to provide any further submissions 
or information to me within one month. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I previously mentioned, we now know Ms T had previously suffered from an illness that 
was specifically excluded under the PPI policy rules. And as I also explained in my 
provisional decision, Ive been provided with evidence that she had been prescribed 
medication for the illness by her doctor shortly before the PPI sale date and she would have 
been taking the medication for a minimum of 6 months.
Information about certain illnesses being excluded wasnt mentioned on the credit 
agreement which Ms T signed. With this in mind, I think Ms T would have considered the PPI 
policy as very poor value for money. It was already an expensive policy when benchmarked 
against other PPI cover sold at around that time. AXA had a duty to point out the main 
exclusions and other important features, so Ms T could make an informed decision about 
what she wanted to do. Ive seen no evidence AXA did this.
Weve had a response to my provisional decision from AXA which said it didnt want to send 
in any new information or arguments. So, theres no reason for me to change the findings 
I set out in previously. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms T in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already and AXA should:
Pay Ms T the amount she paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest 8% a year ;
If Ms T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off AXA from this interest. AXA must give Ms T a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ts complaint and require AXA France IARD to pay the compensation as 
outlined above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman