DRN-4064033
The complaint
Ms R complains Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo (Fernovo) gave her loans she couldnt
afford to repay which put her into a debt spiral.
What happened
Ms R was granted two loans from Fernovo. A summary of her borrowing can be found in the 
table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £400.00 22/11/2021 15/12/2021 3 £196.17
2 £400.00 19/01/2022 04/03/2022 4 £162.69
Following Ms Rs complaint Fernovo wrote to her with a final response letter, outlining why it
wasnt going to uphold the complaint because it had carried out sufficient checks which
showed the loans were affordable. Unhappy with this response, Ms R referred her complaint
to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our adjudicator reviewed Ms Rs complaint and she didnt uphold it. She said the checks
carried out were proportionate before the loans were approved and there was no indication
the loans were unsustainable for Ms R.
Ms R didnt agree with the outcome and said, You can see I had to make further borrowings 
with fervono [sic] and other lenders and am still in financial distress as I havent recovered 
from this.
After the complaint was passed to me, I issued a provisional decision outlining why I was 
intending to, based on the evidence that I had to uphold the complaint about loan 2 only. A 
copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller text and forms part of this final 
decision.
Both Ms R and Fernovo were asked to provide any further comments as soon as possible, 
but in any event, no later than 4 April 2023.
Neither party has responded to or provided anything further for consideration. 
In order to bring this matter to a close, I am proceeding to issue a final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fernovo had to assess the lending to check if Ms R could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Fernovos checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Ms Rs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fernovo should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms R. These factors include:
Ms R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms R.
Fernovo was required to establish whether Ms R could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms R was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Rs complaint.
Loan 1
Fernovo asked Ms R to declare her income and expenditure. Ms R declared her monthly
income was £2,880. Fernovo says this amount was verified. Ms R then confirmed she had
monthly expenditure of £1,016  this included Ms Rs mortgage payment, credit
commitments and other living costs.
However, as part of its affordability assessment Fernovo considered Office of National
Statistics (ONS) averages for similar, age, income and postcode as Ms R to determine living
costs. It also carried out a credit search (which Ill explain more about below) to determine
Ms Rs credit commitments. Having done this, it considered Ms Rs living costs were more
likely to be around £1,996. This left disposable income of £884 in which to make payments
of around £196 per month.
Therefore, based solely on the information Ms R declared to Fernovo, it was reasonable for
Fernovo to have concluded Ms R would be able to afford to repay this loan.
Fernovo has also said for this loan, it carried out a credit search and it has provided the
Financial Ombudsman Service with the results it received. It is worth saying here that
although Fernovo carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement for it to do
one, let alone one to a specific standard.Looking at the credit file data provided by Fernovo Im satisfied it was aware of some
adverse credit file information. It knew Ms R already had significant amounts of debt spread
across a number of different accounts. For example, Fernovo was aware that a credit card
had been opened a month before this loan  Ms R was already utilising most of that new
credit limit.
In saying that, as part of her application Ms R declared £250 worth of credit commitments
each month (excluding the mortgage). Fernovo increased this to £799 per month but I still
dont think that was enough. Just accounting for the finance house loans, mail order
accounts and credit cards that Ive seen in the credit check results, Ms R was likely going to
be paying more than £1,100 per month to service these debts.
Fernovo as Ive said, did increase Ms Rs outgoings to reflect what it saw in the credit file,
and I think that was the right thing to have done at the time. Although I dont think Fernovo
increased Ms Rs credit commitments enough had it increased Ms Rs credit commitments
by a further £300  she still had a sufficient amount of disposable income to be able to afford
the repayments for this loan.
Given this was the first loan application, for a fairly modest sum and the checks carried out
were proportionate, I do think Fernovo made a reasonable decision to provide this loan.
Loan 2
For this loan, Fernovo carried out the same sort of checks as it had done for the first loan. It
again verified Ms Rs declared monthly income to be around £2,956. Ms R also declared
monthly outgoings of £840 (this included £80 per month for credit commitments). This left
£2,116 a month of disposable income to be able to afford the monthly repayments of around
£163.
However, as before, Fernovo used the credit report data to increase Ms Rs credit
commitments to £869, used ONS data of £786 per month for living costs and then her
mortgage of £550. For Fernovos affordability assessment it believed Ms Rs monthly
outgoings were £2,205 leaving £751 of disposable income. Again, Fernovo wouldve
believed the loan was affordable.
A credit search was also carried out and a copy of the results have been provided and once
again Ive reviewed these to see what information Fernovo had been given. Ive highlighted
from the credit file Fernovo had some of the information that I think is concerning.
Ms R had opened a total of 4 new credit accounts since loan 1 was granted  even
though it was approved only a couple of months before.
Ms R now had 25 active credit accounts. This would indicate that Ms R was repaying
credit and closing the accounts and then approaching new lenders for further funds.
Ms R had five active Finance House loans costing £691 per month to service.
On top of this, Ms R also had three mail order accounts costing around £250 per
month to service.
Ms R had 12 credit card accounts that needing servicing and three of the credit
cards were now over the agreed credit limit. With a further six cards within £20 of the
set credit limit.
So, I do think Ms Rs credit commitments were likely significantly more than the £869
Fernovo used, given the costs for just the mail order and finance house loans comes to
£941. Assuming a 3% repayment on the credit cards, which I do think could be on the low
side, Ms R had to pay around £890 per month just servicing her credit card debt. This leads
to a monthly credit commitment of around £2,000. Before any living costs and / or the
mortgage are factored in.
So, I do think, given the information in the credit report, that Fernovo ought to have been on
notice that this loan wasnt affordable for Ms R  by the time her mortgage and living costs
were taken into account.But even if I am wrong on that point  which I dont think I am - Fernovo also had to consider
more than just whether the loan was pounds and pence affordable, it also had to consider
whether the loan was likely to be sustainable for Ms R.
Given the value of Ms Rs debts, the number of open credit card accounts and the fact that
there appeared to have been a deterioration in the way Ms R was managing her existing
credit commitments (having a number of cards over their credit limit for example) ought to
have led Fernovo to conclude that this loan wasnt sustainable for Ms R.
I am therefore proposing to uphold Ms Rs complaint about loan 2 only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Ms R nor Fernovo provided any new comments or evidence about the outcome 
that was intending to be reached I see no reason to depart from the findings that were made 
in the provisional decision. 
I still think Fernovo made a reasonable decision to provide loan 1. However, Fernovo ought 
to not have provided loan 2 due to the information it received from the credit reference 
agency which showed Fernovo the loan was likely to be unsustainable for Ms R. 
Ive set out below what Fernovo needs to do in order to put things right for Ms R.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Fernovo should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not lent loan 2 to Ms R, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms R may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Fernovos liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Fernovo shouldnt have given Ms R loan 2.
A. Fernovo should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms R towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan.B. Fernovo should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms R which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms R originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.  Fernovo should pay Ms R the total of A plus B.
D. Fernovo should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Ms Rs credit file 
about the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Fernovo to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Ms R a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Rs 
complaint in part.
Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo should put things right for Ms R as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman