DRN-3474335
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs F are unhappy at the fees Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) charged for the 
use of its overdraft facility. They were under the impression there wouldnt be any fees 
during the pandemic.
What happened
Barclays approved a request for an increased overdraft limit in June 2020 to £24,790. Mr A 
and Mrs F started using their overdraft around September 2020 and paid it back in March 
2021. Mr A and Mrs F complained to Barclays about the charges applied to their overdraft 
during this period. They say they were under the impression that during the pandemic 
Barclays would be more considerate towards struggling customers and that the fees were 
excessive. 
Barclays say all fees were applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account and that the fees were outlined to them when the limit increase was approved in 
June 2020. Barclays say support was offered in the form of text messages advising that they 
could apply for help  but Mr A and Mrs F never did. 
One of our adjudicators looked into their concerns and reached the conclusion Barclays 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr A and Mrs F unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr A and Mrs F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr A and Mrs Fs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Mr A and Mrs Fs complaint is about the proportionality of the charges applied to their 
account during the pandemic. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts Barclays charged were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Barclays various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr A and Mrs F 
if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr A and Mrs Fs account in circumstances 
where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr A and Mrs F 
were experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Barclays didnt treat Mr A and Mrs F 
fairly and reasonably. I dont think that Barclays did treat Mr A and Mrs F unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. I say this because Mr A and Mrs F were informed by letter about 
what the charges for use of the overdraft facility would be when it was agreed  there is 
nothing in this letter that suggests the facility would be free. And having looked at Mr A and 
Mrs Fs statements I cant see anything to suggest that Barclays ought to have realised they 
might have been experiencing financial difficulty  indeed I can see they were invited to 
apply for help by text message and never responded. 
During the period they were using their overdraft I can see there were regular deposits of a 
healthy salary and large cash transfers into and out of the account to what looks like to fund 
investments and pensions.  They were never at the top of the overdraft limit and it was paid 
back in full within around six months of using it. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr A and Mrs Fs account was 
being used. And having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays treated Mr A and 
Mrs F unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr A and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman