DRN-3416304
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is refusing to refund transactions that 
were carried out fraudulently on his account by his brother (Mr D) who had been 
impersonating him for over 25 years.
Mr C is represented by his partner, Miss K. Where appropriate I will refer to Miss K in my 
decision.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr C - along with Miss K - says he went into a Barclays branch to question, 
and stop, his unauthorised overdraft and related fees. Its at that point Mr C says he went on 
a path of discovery, which led him to conclude he was the victim of long-standing 
impersonation fraud by Mr D.
Mr C says he was told by Barclays staff at that point, that no further money would be taken 
from his account unless it was by him in person at the branch. Over £500 was taken from 
Mr Cs account the following day through online banking.
Given the concerns about Mr D impersonating Mr C, Miss K started looking into matters in 
more detail. As a result, Miss K says Mr Cs account has had substantive transactions 
debited from it which he didnt authorise for well over 20 years. And that Mr C has been the 
victim of complex fraud carried out by Mr D - engineered through coercive control and 
manipulation.
The type of transactions in dispute are known to both parties, but to summarise, they include 
debit card payments, ATM withdrawals, Faster payments, Direct Debits; payments using 
online and mobile banking to Mr D, and standing orders.
Miss K, on behalf of Mr C, has made several complaint points to Barclays, and it in turn has 
sent several responses. Unhappy with Barclays answers, Mr C referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our Investigator was able to summarise the key points Miss K, on behalf of Mr C, has made. 
I will set them out here:
Mr C doesnt use online banking. He didnt even know it was set-up on his account 
until he went into branch in August 2019
Hes never used mobile banking, nor does he have it set-up on his mobile phone
Mr C doesnt have a computer
He doesnt know how Mr D knew his PIN. Its not written down or stored anywhere
Mr C has never given his debit card nor PIN to his brother  nor has he ever 
consented to him using it
He wont talk about issues surrounding the card and PIN. Thats because hes in a 
state of shock about the theft and deception Mr D has carried out
The PIN number hasnt been changed in five years. And he keeps his card in a wallet
He has the same mobile number since 2002, but there are no security measures on it
Mr C didnt monitor his account
He only paid for items in cash using the same Barclays ATM each time to withdraw 
cash
Mr C cant confirm if he received statements by post or electronically. And he didnt 
know he could check his balance at an ATM machine
Our investigation
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. In summary they found:
- The transactions were authenticated as the genuine card, its details, and PIN were 
used. And the personalised set of procedures were completed on them
- Its likely Mr C gave his card and PIN details to Mr D some time ago, which explains 
how he would have known the security credentials
- Mr C says he never registered for mobile banking. But Barclays records show mobile 
banking was registered to his mobile telephone number - and this device has been 
used throughout
- As some of the disputed transactions have been going on for many years, like a 
direct debit since 2012, and given the amounts and frequency, its difficult to 
understand how Mr C has not noticed them before
- Mr C was in regular employment and on a reasonable income. So given how long 
this was going on for, and as he says he never had much money; this ought to have 
made him question what was going on. Because of this, it was most likely Mr C knew 
what was happening - and simply allowed Mr D to use his account in this way.
This means Mr C most likely gave his brother authority and allowed him to carry out 
the transactions. In turn, consenting to the transactions Mr D was carrying out
- Direct debit guarantee claims generally relate to where payment errors have 
occurred
- Mr C hasnt provided any details to show he was under the coercive control of Mr D
- Under the Payments Service Regulations (PSRs), Barclays isnt liable to refund 
transactions if a consumer felt forced or manipulated into making them. Consent 
under the PSRs isnt the same as informed consent
- Given how long the activity was taking place on Mr Cs account, its difficult to say 
Barclays ought to have noticed something was wrong. As regular statements were 
being sent to Mr C, it was incumbent upon him to take reasonable care to monitor his 
account and report any unrecognised transactions
- Barclays have however made some errors, they are:
A standing order mandate produced by Mr C, shows it wasnt his signature 
when compared to his passport signature. Barclays should have verified this 
betterNo payments should have been permitted from the account after Mr C told 
Barclays to do so when he visited the branch in August 2019. As Barclays 
failed to disable Mr Cs online and mobile banking, the two faster payments, 
totalling £542, made after this point should be refunded
- Mr C had asked for all correspondence to be done in writing. Despite this, Barclays 
made several attempts to call Mr C, after which it closed its file when no contact was 
established. Even though speaking to Mr C would have been helpful for Barclays 
investigation of the complaint, it should have written to him. Because of this Barclays 
should pay £200 compensation in addition to £250 that it had already paid for poor 
customer service
- Miss K paid around £244 of overdraft fees for Mr C after discovering the account was 
in overdraft, but Barclays doesnt have to refund these as they were correctly applied.
Also, as these fees were paid by Miss K, they represent a financial loss to her. That 
means she isnt an eligible complainant for the purposes of this complaint. Miss K 
doesnt have a qualifying relationship with Barclays in relationship to Mr Cs 
complaint.
Miss K did not agree with what our Investigator said. Some of the key points she made were: 
- Barclays would not place a stop on Mr Cs account until the overdraft charges were 
paid off, thats why Miss K used her own funds
- Barclays should refund direct debit payments to another company as it had done so 
with previous direct debits to another company. And it should also refund all 
payments to any company it previously made direct debit refunds for
- All transactions by direct debit, card payments ATM withdrawals and faster payments 
Mr C doesnt recognise, and disputes, should be refunded
- Why didnt Barclays question Faster payments to Mr D which put the account in an 
unauthorised overdraft. This was irregular and Barclays should have noticed 
something was wrong
- Any assumptions about Mr C authorising transactions are wrong. Mr C is in a state of 
shock about what his brother, Mr D, has done
- Mr C and Mr D lived at the same address, not the same property, for a few months 
and not years
- Mr C never registered for mobile banking using his telephone number. He does not 
have any apps on his phone, nor does he know how to download them. Barclays 
cannot prove Mr Cs device was used to make these Faster payments
- The payments made from the account to gambling companies demonstrate Mr D was 
a gambler
- Barclays should be held responsible for any payments to Mr Ds account as they 
typically led to the account going into an unauthorised overdraft and Mr C incurring 
fees and charges as a result- £200 isnt adequate compensation for Barclays closing its file when it couldnt make 
phone contact with Mr C. Given Mr Cs condition, Barclays actions do not comply 
with diversity and inclusion requirements
- Miss K only paid the overdraft fees on the account when she did as she was told the 
only way to stop fees escalating was by settling the account
In response, our Investigator said Barclays internal notes show theres mention of an 
overdraft in 2006 and one appears to have been put in place. And in 2014, due to a change 
in Barclays overdraft pricing, an Emergency Borrowing facility was applied on the account. 
This suggests charges applied were done so correctly when the account went into overdraft. 
Miss K disputes this. She says Barclays actions in letting the account go above any 
overdraft limit caused fees and charges to be applied. Miss K also contests how Mr Cs 
actual phone could have been used.
As Mr C and his representative, Miss K, didnt agree with what our investigator said, the
matter was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I sent both Mr C and Barclays my provision decision in early March 2022. I said I was 
thinking of coming to the same outcome as our Investigator  but that my recommendations 
to put things right would be a little different. 
For ease of reference, here is what I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im planning to partially uphold this complaint. I know parts of what Im 
about to say will disappoint Mr C and Miss K. So Ill explain why.
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr C liable for the disputed payments if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not, he made or authorised them himself.
Its important at this stage I point out that if evidence isnt complete or conclusive, I can make 
my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. In other words, I can 
decide matters on the balance of probabilities.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Cs genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions. And in the case of the other transactions that are being
disputed, the correct personalised set of procedures were likely used.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable 
Barclays to hold Mr C liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its 
more likely than not Mr C consented to the transactions being made.
At the heart of this complaint is the argument that Mr C was manipulated and coerced by 
Mr D for a significant period of time  and that he impersonated him for well over 20 years. 
Miss K says Mr C is in a state of shock about this. And so, he isnt giving any detail about it. 
I appreciate and dont undervalue why Mr C is in this condition if what he says is true. But 
without stronger evidence, Im not, on balance, able to find he didnt consent, and therefore 
authorise the transactions which are in dispute here. There are a number of reasons I say 
this:-Barclays have sent me its internal records. On one entry, after August 2019 when 
Mr C says he discovered what was going on, it says he told staff members he 
had given his card and PIN to his brother some time ago.
I appreciate Miss K says Mr C never shared his PIN nor did he give anyone his card, 
but this record runs contrary to that. What Mr C would have said in branch is most 
likely to be a contemporaneous record. Because of that, I am putting more weight on 
it. It also explains how Mr D would have been able to carry out the transactions in lieu 
of no other explanation or information.
So, I accept its possible Mr D used Mr Cs debit card details, but that doesnt 
necessarily mean he didnt authorise them. If he did give - as I think is the most likely 
explanation here  these details to Mr D, then he has either given express authority 
or apparent authority to him. By the latter I mean, Mr D may have made payments 
Mr C didnt expressly consent to, but by giving him his card and PIN and the authority 
to use them, it still amounts to consent
-Barclays have given me its internal records which show all mobile banking 
transactions from 2018 were carried out from the same device and from the 
telephone number Mr C has told us is his. I note Miss K disputes this matter strongly 
saying Mr C doesnt use apps. But I must make my findings on the evidence 
available to me, and that shows mobile banking transactions were made from Mr Cs 
phone  a number he still has, and one given to this service for him.
Given Mr C hasnt said anything about how his brother coerced him, I cant on 
balance be persuaded he didnt know what was happening and that he didnt consent 
to payments to him. After all, based on the information I have, its not possible to 
know what financial arrangements were in place between Mr C and Mr D
-Barclays records show account statements were being sent to Mr C in the post. 
Miss K says Mr D has been deceiving Mr C for well over 20 years, and he lives 
frugally and has little money to spend on himself. When asked, Miss K hasnt said 
Mr C suffers from any vulnerability which I need to consider which may affect his 
ability to monitor his account.
I note Mr C says he didnt monitor his account, but given he had a reasonable 
income, I find it difficult to understand why he didnt question why he was short on 
money. I also find it difficult to fathom why he never questioned anything if he didnt 
know, or authorise, the transactions his brother was making
-I note our Investigator said that under the PSRs Barclays isnt liable to refund Mr C 
even if he feels he was coerced into allowing Mr D to do so. And that consent under 
the PSRs isnt the same as informed consent. Our Investigator was right to say this
-Miss K has said all direct debits which Mr C didnt know about should be refunded 
under the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme. I accept its possible Mr D was 
impersonating his brother. But Ive already said its most likely Mr C gave Mr D 
authority to use his account. So, without compelling evidence to the contrary it 
appears he was likely authorised to set up direct debits too.
In any case, the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme normally applies where an error has 
been made with the payment being collected. I note Miss K argues Barclays has 
refunded some direct debits but not all. That may be the case, but I have to decide if I 
think its most likely Mr C authorised the setting up of these payments albeit by given permission to Mr D. And, as Ive said, I think thats whats most likely to have 
happened here
Miss K argues Barclays ought to have picked up on something not being right with how the 
account was being used when it went into an unarranged overdraft and incurred substantive 
fees. And that regular payments going to Mr D, should have made Barclays intervene and 
question the activity as unusual.
Ive seen Barclays internal records which show an overdraft limit was agreed in both 2006 
and 2014. Given the extent of this financial relationship between Mr C and Mr D could go 
back over 25 years, I cant see how Barclays wouldve have deemed behaviour consistent 
over that period as unusual for it to intervene. Statements were also being sent to Mr C over 
this period, which would have assured Barclays Mr C knew what was happening with his 
account.
So, in conclusion, after weighing everything up, Im persuaded its more likely than not Mr C 
consented and thereby authorised the transaction he disputes. At the heart of this finding is 
the fact that we know little about the nature of the relationship, and therein any agreement, 
he may have had with Mr D at that time. So based on what Ive seen, its most likely Mr C 
gave Mr D authority, whether that be express or apparent, to use his banking credentials.
Having said that, I do think there are several things Barclays have got wrong. They are:
-Barclays paid a standing order from Mr Cs account for £500. The mandate for this 
shows a different signature to that on Mr Cs passport. Barclays should have carried 
out a reasonable verification check of this and it appears that it hasnt
-Barclays allowed Faster payments totalling £542 to leave Mr Cs account after he 
had told them to put a stop on his account in August 2019
-Mr C incurred overdraft charges on his account of around £244 after this point. These 
charges would not have applied to the account had Barclays done what it should 
have  that is stop any further payments. Because of that, these fees should be 
refunded
-Barclays tried to call Mr C when it had been told expressly to communicate only in 
writing. Due to not being able to speak to Mr C, it appears Barclays suspended its 
investigation. I note Miss K says Mr C has a medical condition which is why he only 
wanted to communicate in this way. I havent seen that Barclays had been made 
aware of this, so I dont think hes been discriminated against because of that.
But Barclays should have followed those instructions and not just paused on matters 
because it couldnt speak to Mr C on the phone. This no doubt has caused some 
delay and caused distress. Because of that Im persuaded Barclays should pay £250 
on top of the £250 it has already paid to Mr C
To put things right, I said Barclays should:
-Refund £542 to Mr C for payments that should not have been made in August 2019. 
And it should pay 8% simple interest from when this amount debited the account to 
settlement
-Refund Mr C, £500 for the standing order that should not have been honoured by 
Barclays. And pay him 8% simple interest from when it debited the account to 
settlement. Barclays should also refund any fees and charges Mr C incurred because 
of this-Refund any fees and charges that have not already been refunded that occurred 
because Barclays allowed Faster payments to be made after Mr C told it to stop the 
account in August 2019. This is to include the fees of £244.60 applied to the account
-Pay Mr C £250 for the poor customer service and the distress this has caused him
Further responses
I then gave both parties an opportunity to send any further evidence or arguments. Miss K 
made the following points:
- Mr Cs account has effectively been dormant since August 2019. But in early 2021, it 
became apparent two unauthorised direct debit payments were being made to a 
company. 
Miss K asked if this matter be considered as part of this complaint  or whether it 
needed to be dealt with separately
- Mr C spent the Christmas of 2021 with Miss K and her mother. They learnt then that 
Mr C changed his phone and gave the old one to Mr D thinking that he was going to 
sell it
I then responded to Miss K, and informed Barclays of what I had said. 
I said I was minded to reach my final decision in line with what I had said in my provisional 
decision. But, having looked at matters again, I was now looking to change part of what I 
said Barclays need to do to put things right. 
In reaching this conclusion, I looked closely at the statement Barclays have given me for 
Mr Cs account. On 20 August 2019, the account was overdrawn by around £245. This is a 
few days before Miss K and Mr C went into the branch and told Barclays to stop all 
payments from the account. 
Then, on the 23 August 2019, payments of £42 and then £500 by Faster payments are 
made from the account. As, Id already said in my provisional decision, these shouldnt have 
been allowed by Barclays given Mr C told it on the same day to stop further payments.
Mr Cs account is then credited with around £543, also on 23 August 2019. Having looked at 
details of this credit, Im satisfied it was Mr Cs salary. I say that because a payment around 
this amount is made around every seven days from the same source. The amount received 
and the regularity of payments are consistent with what Mr C has said about his income.
Miss K then paid around £244 - shown as credited on 23 August 2019 to put Mr Cs account 
into a zero balance. So, given the account was overdrawn by around £245, and payments 
were made of £542; a salary credit of around £543 would have left the account overdrawn by 
about £244.60. The same amount Miss K paid to reduce the account to a zero balance.
This means Barclays mistake in letting the £542 payments leave the account did not, in of 
itself, lead to Miss K paying off charges resulting from this error. These charges were the net 
product of the prevailing overdraft before Mr C asked Barclays to stop further payments on 
23 August 2019.
So I was mistaken in concluding the payment Miss K made of around £244 wouldnt have 
had to have been made had Barclays stopped the two Faster payments. In turn, this means our Investigator was right to say that as Miss K paid these fees herself, and did so of her 
own will, it no longer represent a loss for Mr C.
We can only consider losses experienced by the person who is eligible to complain, which
is Mr C. Under our rules Miss K isnt the eligible complainant because she wasnt the
account holder and so doesnt have a qualifying relationship with Barclays in relation to this
complaint.
I said I was sorry for changing my position on this matter, especially as its something Miss K 
and Mr C feel strongly about.
I also explained that Mr C would have to raise the matter about unauthorised direct debit 
payments in 2021 to Barclays in the first instance. And as such, that is a separate matter to 
what I am deciding here. 
Finally, I explained that although Mr C may have given his old phone to Mr D to sell, he still 
has the same number now  given we have the same telephone number registered on our 
systems at the service. I said its very unlikely the same telephone number is being used at 
the same time from two separate mobile phone devices. A mobile telephone number is 
typically linked to the SIM card inserted into the phone, which means the phone being used 
can only have that number. 
I gave both Mr C and Barclays a further opportunity for comment and to give me any new 
evidence. Barclays accepted what I said. Miss K, on behalf of Mr C, has in summary said: 
- They do not agree Barclays doesnt have to repay Miss Ks payment of around £244.   
The salary payment of around £543 into Mr Cs account at midnight on Thursday 
22 August 2019 meant the overdraft of about £245 on his account on Monday 
19 August 2019 was cleared. So no overdraft existed after his wages were paid in by 
electronic transfer, and there was a balance of about £297 in credit on his account. 
When £500 was taken out of the account by electronic transfer a few minutes after 
midnight, and a further £42 later, on Friday 23 August 2019, this left the account 
overdrawn by about £244. 
So by not stopping the electronic withdrawals as instructed by Mr C when he visited 
the bank on 22 August 2019, Barclays created an account deficit that would not 
otherwise have existed. This account deficit of about £244 was the money that 
Barclays demanded be paid on Friday 23 August 2019 otherwise, as it said, Mr C 
would have charged emergency borrowing fees and would not have put the account 
on hold. So, Miss K says she had no choice but to pay the £244 on Mr Cs behalf. 
Miss K has provided work sheets of the account during that period for me to 
consider which she says show the correct order of transactions on the account. 
Miss K adds its unfair not to require Barclays to repay an overdraft it created. 
- Miss K says her demonstration of the same data showing on her phone whilst 
abroad, and then on her old phone in the UK, is evidence that when a mobile phone 
is upgraded, the phone number retained for use in the new phone, the SIM card 
retained in the old phone and a new SIM card inserted in the new phone, both 
phones can be used with the same number since the new phone is simply a clone of 
the phone that its replacing - Mr D had assured Mr C he would restore the factory settings before selling it. 
Because of this, theres reasonable doubt Mr C was not the user of the phone that 
was used to carry out all mobile banking from 2018 - and he did not know the phone 
he gave to his brother was being used for that purpose
- You [the Ombudsman] recommend Barclays pay Mr C £250 compensation for poor 
customer service when, instead of writing to Mr C, they simply closed his complaint. 
The complaint to the fraud department was of substantial fraud on Mr Cs account, 
yet instead of directing the fraud department to investigate the fraud, the 
recommendation is Barclays pay him £250 for poor customer service
As Barclays, Mr C and Miss K have now had an opportunity to make further representations, 
it follows that I must decide this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to partially uphold this complaint for the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision  as above. Ill be directing Barclays to put things right as set-out in my 
provisional decision, and as amended in my further responses  also detailed above. 
I know this will disappoint Mr C and Miss K. Because of that, I will explain why I have not 
changed my mind following their most recent response. 
Phone used for mobile banking
I note what Miss K says about data showing on a previous phone simultaneously to that of a 
new mobile phone. And I have no reason to doubt the credibility of the evidence she has 
sent in to demonstrate this.  
But data, like emails or social media accounts, are a very different thing to phone calls  and 
therefore a registered phone number showing against a device. SIM card inserted into 
mobile phones contain a unique telephone number. 
Barclays technical data shows the exact phone number was used. So, the matter relates to 
the SIM card. It is my understanding, that when mobile phones are changed by the user, the 
SIM card  or more precisely, the unique digital data it holds  is transferred to the new 
phone. If, and when, new SIM cards are produced for the same telephone number, I 
understand that the previous one becomes defunct. 
All of this means that only one phone number is likely to be in use, on any one mobile 
device. 
I do however accept phone numbers can be cloned. In other words the same number can 
co-exist on another mobile device. But I havent seen compelling enough evidence to 
persuade me this is what was happening. Its something that we dont see very often given 
the technical expertise and knowledge needed to carry it out. And, I think its unlikely Mr D, 
without strong information to the contrary, took these onerous steps to clone just Mr Cs 
phone number for this purpose. 
So that means I still think it more likely Mr C authorised Mr D to use his phone.    
Refund of Miss Ks paymentIve carefully considered what Miss K has said about the money she paid to settle Mr Cs 
account to a zero balance to avoid him incurring emergency borrowing fees and charges. 
Ive also closely considered what shes said about the timings of the various transactions 
and carefully reviewed the worksheets or statements shes sent in. 
Having done that, I still think the fees she paid of around £244 should not be refunded to 
Mr C. I say this for the reasons Ive already given, and because I will be directing Barclays to 
refund the two unauthorised transactions of £500 and £42. By doing that, Mr C is put back in 
the position he would have been after his salary was paid in on 22 August 2019. That in turn 
means his account would be in credit at that moment in time by around £297. Miss K only 
paid around £244 to reduce the balance to zero as the two transactions amounting to £542 
was erroneously paid out. 
By refunding £244 to Mr C he would in effect be doubly awarded. As Miss K is not an eligible 
complainant given, she doesnt hold a qualifying relationship with Barclays in relation to this 
complaint, any recovery of what she paid needs to be taken up with Mr C directly.  
Poor customer service
Mr C feels a £250 award isnt fair compensation given Barclays closed a fraud investigation 
it should otherwise have continued to investigate by writing to him. Its clear Barclays failed 
to handle the complaint as it ought to have  which in turn means it handled the matter 
poorly. 
Mr Cs fraud claim was ultimately looked into  albeit that it took a complaint, and to some 
extent this services involvement, to have matters looked into as they ought to have been. So 
in terms of any detriment Mr C suffered, this is limited to delay, poor complaint handling and 
customer service. 
So I still think £250, on top of the £250 Barclays have already paid - so £500 in total - is fair 
compensation. I explained my reasons for this in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays Bank UK PLC should: 
- Refund £542 to Mr C for payments that should not have been made in August 2019. 
And it should pay 8% simple interest from when this amount debited the account to 
settlement
- Refund Mr C, £500 for the standing order that should not have been honoured by 
Barclays. And pay him 8% simple interest from when it debited the account to 
settlement. Barclays should also refund any fees and charges Mr C incurred because 
of this
- Pay Mr C a further £250 for the poor customer service and the distress this has 
caused him
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in part. I now direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as set-out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman