DRN-3559780
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Creative Benefit Wealth Management Limited 
(CBWM) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension plan (PPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (his employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr D was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his pension. So, he contacted a financial adviser (which Ill refer to as Firm A) for advice. 
Mr D met with Firm A in August 2017 and it completed a fact-find and an assessment of his 
risk appetite. The fact-find noted Mr D wanted to discuss transferring his DB scheme to a 
personal pension. As Firm A didnt hold the relevant permission from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of his DB scheme, it told Mr D he would be 
referred to CBWM.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
In October 2017 CBWM completed its own fact-find to gather information about Mr Ds 
circumstances and objectives. It noted Mr D was aged 42 and married with two young 
children. He owned his home and had an outstanding mortgage of £44,000 which was due 
to be paid off in five years. He also had a loan of £12,000, also due to be repaid in five 
years. Mr D and his wife had significant life insurance and savings of around £9,000. It was 
recorded that Mr D wanted to retire at age 65, and have an income of £1,500 per month net. 
He was contributing £450 per month to his employers new defined-contribution (DC) 
scheme.
CBWM carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced. But as it thought Mr Ds capacity for loss was high and Mr D said he wanted to 
take a higher risk, it classified him as a balanced to adventurous investor.
On 6 December 2017, CBWM issued a suitability report advising Mr D to transfer his BSPS 
benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds with a provider in a moderately 
adventurous fund. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were, in 
summary:
It enabled Mr D to pass on his pension to his children upon his death.
It gave him the option to retire early without penalty.
Mr D wanted control over his pension and to be able to access his pension benefits 
flexibly.
It enabled Mr D to take a higher sum of tax-free cash (TFC) without him having to 
take income at the same time.
Mr D was concerned about the financial security of the BSPS.
Mr D accepted the recommendation and the transfer went ahead. In March 2018, 
£150,382.92 was received into the personal pension. CBWM received an initial advice fee of 
£4,259.57. The servicing of Mr Ds pension was then transferred to Firm A, who would be 
taking a 1% fee to provide ongoing advice.
In September 2021 Mr D complained to CBWM about the transfer advice via a 
representative. Mrs Ds representative said the advice was unsuitable as there was no 
prospect of Mr D matching or improving on the benefits he wouldve been entitled to had he 
moved to the BSPS2.
CBWM didnt agree with Mr Ds complaint. It said it couldnt have advised Mr D to opt into 
the BSPS2 as it wasnt clear if it would be going ahead at the time it gave the advice. It said 
if Mr D had opted in, and it didnt go ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. 
CBWM said Mr D was concerned about the lower escalations applicable to his pension in 
payment under the PPF and the BSPS2. And as Mr D wanted the option of retiring early, 
having flexibility and the ability to pass on the capital value of his pension on his death, the 
advice was suitable.
Mr D referred his complaint to our Service. An Investigator upheld the complaint. He thought 
the opportunity to improve on the benefits available through the DB scheme was low, 
particularly as he wasnt persuaded that Mr D had more than a cautious attitude to risk. So, 
he didnt think that transferring to a personal pension was in Mr Ds best interests. The 
investigator also wasnt persuaded that Mr D had any genuine retirement objectives that 
needed to be addressed at the time  he was over 20 years away from retirement so thought 
any need for flexibility could be addressed nearer to retirement. The investigator also 
thought the death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Overall, he 
thought Mr D shouldve been advised to opt into the BSPS2, the details of which were known 
at the time of the advice. The investigator recommended that CBWM should compensate 
Mr D for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension and that compensation should 
be based on him having opted to join the BSPS2.
 
Mr D accepted the investigators findings.
CBWM didnt agree, saying the investigator had assessed the case on the wrong basis. It 
said its adviser wasnt required to guarantee that the transfer would be in Mr Ds best 
interests. Instead, the adviser was simply required to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice was suitable for him. CBWM also said the discount rate used by the investigator 
wasnt relevant, nor were the critical yields because Mr D didnt want to take an annuity; he 
wanted flexibility.
CBWM said that Mr D had made a fully informed decision to proceed with the transfer, which 
had been ignored. It maintained that the BSPS2 was not a sure thing and so was not an 
option at the time of the advice. CBWM thought Mr D wouldve gone on to transfer in any 
event.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This 
includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS).  
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why. 
CBWM says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr D. I agree that under COBS, CBWM was required to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr D was suitable for him (COBS 
9.2.1). However, additional regulations apply to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. 
These additional regulations say that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that a business should only have considered a transfer 
out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests 
(COBS 19.1.6). So, Ive considered all of the applicable regulations here. And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied the advice to transfer was in Mr Ds best 
interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability 
CBWM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). However, this was based on his existing 
scheme benefits and Mr D didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed 
to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. 
CBWM has strongly argued that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead so the only comparison it 
could provide was with the benefits available to Mr D through the PPF. But I think CBWM 
overestimated the chance of this not happening; Mr D had received his time to choose 
pack by the time the advice was given. And details of the scheme had been provided; the 
BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been 
lower. Of course, its possible this may not have gone ahead, but I still think the benefits 
available to Mr D through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored in with this advice so that he 
was able to make an informed decision. 
According to the fact-find and suitability report, Mr D expected he would retire at age 65, 
although he wanted the option to retire early if he could afford to do so. The TVAS dated 
14 November 2017 set out the relevant critical yields; at age 65 it was 7.7% if he took a full 
pension or 6.7% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. The critical yield required to match 
the benefits provided through the PPF was 5.8% if Mr D took a full pension. The TVAS didnt 
provide the critical yield for a reduced pension and TFC. But as Ive said above, Mr D 
remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the critical yields applicable to the 
BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 
wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But, I still think they wouldve likely 
been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits, particularly at age 65.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.5% per year for 22 years to retirement. For 
further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. The investigator thought that Mr D most likely 
had a cautious attitude to risk, whereas according to the suitability report, CBWM 
considered Mr D to be a balanced to adventurous investor. However, CBWM, in response 
to the investigators view, confirmed that it assessed Mr Ds attitude to risk as balanced. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I consider that Mr D was likely to be a balanced risk investor given 
he had over 20 years before he expected to retire, so he had the capacity to build pension 
funds in between and tolerate some losses.
There would be little point in Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Here, the 
lowest critical yield was 5.8%, which was based on Mr D taking a full pension through the 
PPF at age 65. The critical yield if Mr D took the same benefits through his existing scheme 
at age 65 was 7.7%. So, if Mr D were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at 
age 65 the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely closer 
to 7.7%. Given the discount rate of 4.5% and the regulators middle projection rate of 5%, 
I think Mr D was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those provided 
by the PPF and the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing in 
line with that attitude to risk.
CBWM says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking 
this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based 
my findings on this, I think it is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to 
determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under 
COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid 
under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this wouldve been 
considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been 
considered in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were 
required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Ds attitude to risk, which leads 
me to be believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
CBWM also says that the critical yield is of limited relevance because it is based on the 
growth required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same basis 
as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. CBWM says Mr D didnt want an annuity, it said 
he wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the regulator required CBWM to consider the rate 
of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. 
So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant 
consideration here, particularly as I dont think Mr D could realistically say with any certainty 
whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to 
retire for at least another 20 years. So, its entirely possible that Mr D would want at least 
some guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the 
DB scheme).Given Mr D was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
his best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice, as CBWM has argued in this case. There might be other considerations 
which mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Ds best interests, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems the main reason that CBWM recommended this transfer was for the flexibility and 
control it offered Mr D. Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr D needed to transfer 
his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement.
It's evident that Mr D could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take TFC and a reduced annual pension, Mr D had to take those benefits at the 
same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr D had any concrete need to take TFC and defer 
taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To my mind this seems more 
of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective.
Furthermore, CBWMs point ignores the retirement funds that Mr D would be building up 
over the next 20 years, through his employers DC scheme. The fact-find says Mr D was 
contributing £450 per month. It isnt clear whether these were contributions his employer was 
making on his behalf or whether this was Mr Ds own contributions. But even without taking 
investment growth into account, it would be worth in the region of £120,000 after 22 years. 
And by assuming modest net growth of 2% over 22 years, the funds could be worth in the 
region of £150,000 by the time Mr D retired.
If Mr D opted into the BSPS2, at age 65 he could take a pension of around £11,000 per year. 
This fell short of the £1,500 per month CBWM says Mr D needed. But I still think Mr D 
couldve met his income needs until his state pension of around £9,000 became payable at 
age 68. I think any shortfall couldve been met by Mr Ds wifes pension and/or by Mr D 
accessing income or TFC from his DC scheme. Mr D would have likely had a significant 
pension to draw on flexibly by that point, to top up his income or take additional lump sums 
for the three years until he started to receive his state pension. So, I dont think Mr D would 
have had to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr D had opted into the BSPS2 
and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 65 Mr D 
wouldve been entitled to a pension of £9,667.17 per year. This was likely lower than the 
pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I dont think it wouldve been substantially 
lower such that it shouldve made a difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, 
Mr D wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until his state pension became payable, as 
well as his wifes pension to supplement their household income. So, I still think Mr D 
couldve met his needs in retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had to 
move with it to the PPF.
Furthermore, the fact-find noted that Mr D and his wife had savings of around £9,000 and 
they were saving an additional £350 per month. Mr Ds mortgage and loan would be paid off 
in five years, meaning he would have more disposable income to put towards his savings 
thereafter. But even if Mr D continued to save at the same level of £350 a month, this could 
have given him potential savings of around £100,000 at retirement that he couldve also 
accessed flexibly to top up his retirement income.CBWM says Mr D wanted £1,500 per month in todays terms, meaning that in reality his 
income at retirement would need to be a lot higher to produce £1,500 per month. It says that 
the value of the scheme income at age 65 would be around £7,300 per year rather than 
£11,580. But I dont think that demonstrates that it was in Mr Ds best interests to transfer to 
a personal pension. As Ive set out above, Mr D was unlikely to obtain benefits of the same 
value at retirement if he transferred his funds to a personal pension. So, I still think Mr D had 
a better chance of achieving his target retirement income of £1,500 per month by opting into 
the BSPS2 (the benefits under which were guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on 
investment growth in a personal pension. He then couldve used his DC scheme funds and 
savings to top up his income as and when it was needed.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr D could have met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF at age 65. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to 
transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he didnt need.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. And I dont 
think CBWM explored to what extent Mr D was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr D 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme wouldve been 
useful to his spouse if Mr D predeceased her. There was also provision for a childrens 
pension up to age 23 if they remained in full-time education. I dont think CBWM made the 
value of these benefits clear enough to Mr D. They were guaranteed and escalated  and 
under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would be calculated as if no TFC had been taken. 
Furthermore, these benefits were not dependent on investment performance, whereas the 
sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. CBWMs cashflow modelling shows 
Mr Ds pension fund would be depleted by age 88 if he achieved an annual investment 
return of 4.38%, so there may not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on when 
he died. In any event, CBWM should not have encouraged Mr D to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
If Mr D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think CBWM 
couldve explored life insurance further. Mr D already had a significant death in service 
benefit through his employer and he and his wife had individual life insurance of £200,000, 
ending in 2031. So, arguably, Mr D already had sufficient life cover in place. But if he wanted 
an extra sum specifically for his children, he couldve taken extra cover out on a whole of life 
basis and written it in trust for the benefit of his children.
I appreciate that CBWM has shown it provided quotes for a whole of life policy with a sum 
assured equal to the transfer value. I presume this was discounted due to the cost, around 
£120 per month. But Im not sure why that would be the case; the monthly premium wasnt 
unaffordable. To my mind, the fact this wasnt explored further suggests to me that greater 
death benefits wasnt a genuine objective for Mr D  instead, it was simply a consequence of 
transferring his pension.Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr D, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So its quite possible that Mr D was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was CBWMs obligation to give Mr D an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr D through 
the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Ds concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that CBWM shouldve 
reassured Mr D that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr D through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of the 
income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. Although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was 
still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to CBWM recommending Mr D transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But CBWM 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring 
to a PPP Mr D was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits at age 65. And 
I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension now when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr D had over 20 years before he 
expected to retire, and he didnt know what his needs in retirement would likely be. So, 
I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr D wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to 
 this was explained in the time to choose booklet. Also, Mr D was married, and his wifes 
pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr D chose to do so). The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
So, I think CBWM shouldve advised Mr D to opt into the BSPS2.CBWM says that regardless of the advice given, Mr D made an informed choice to proceed 
with the transfer. And it believes Mr D wouldve transferred in any event  it says theres no 
evidence to suggest otherwise.
I accept that CBWM disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr D, and provided him with a 
significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr D to 
transfer out, and I think Mr D relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr D wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
CBWMs advice. I say this because Mr D was an inexperienced investor and this pension 
accounted for all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if CBWM had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ds fear about the PPF was so great that he wouldve insisted on 
the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if CBWM had 
explained Mr D was unlikely to exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he 
transferred out, and that he could meet his income needs in retirement without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight.
Im aware that in some communications with CBWM Mr D appeared motivated and anxious 
to get the transfer out completed. But Mr D had received advice from CBWM that he should 
transfer out of the DB scheme. So, I think his words have to be considered in that context. It 
isnt reasonable to assume that hed have behaved the same way if hed been advised to opt 
into the BSPS2. So, I dont think demonstrates hed have gone against CBWMs advice.
In light of the above, I think CBWM should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for CBWMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, CBWM should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published.
Mr D has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D.
CBWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr D has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
CBWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date CBWM receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes CBWM to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect CBWM to carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require Creative 
Benefit Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Creative Benefit Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Creative 
Benefit Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Creative Benefit Wealth Management Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Creative Benefit 
Wealth Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman