DRN-3838605
The complaint
Mrs and Mr F complained about QIC Europe Ltd. They are not happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under their home insurance policy.
   
For ease of reading any reference to QIC includes the actions of its agents which it is 
responsible for.
What happened
Mrs and Mr F made a claim under their home insurance policy after they found a crack in 
their floor when they lifted the carpets as they were looking to redecorate their property. The 
claim went back and forth and QIC eventually declined the claim as it felt the leak stemmed 
from accidental damage to mains services on the basis of wear and tear and gradual 
damage. As Mrs and Mr F werent happy about this and the way it handled their claim they 
complained to QIC and then this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for them and upheld their complaint. He agreed that QIC 
had acted reasonably in turning down the claim in relation to subsidence and for an escape 
of water claim. However, he didnt think it had acted fairly in declining the claim under 
accidental damage to main services because of gradual damage or wear and tear and he 
thought it handled the claim poorly. So he asked QIC to reconsider the claim without relying 
on the exclusion for wear and tear and gradual damage and to pay £200 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
As QIC didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to QIC, but Ill explain why.
I dont propose to go over the finer details of this claim as it appears to be accepted that 
things werent handled as well as they should have been. QIC made errors in the way it dealt 
with things including offering to pay the claim and then declining it, misdiagnosis of the 
piping, delay and poor communication. And so I agree that £200 for the delay, stress and 
inconvenience caused here seems fair. 
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The key remaining issue is whether QIC acted fairly in declining Mrs and Mr Fs claim as it 
felt the accidental damage to the mains services that caused the crack in the floor was 
caused by gradual damage or wear and tear. Although, strictly speaking, QIC hasnt acted 
outside of the policy as the damage to the pipe has happened over a period of time. 
However, as QIC is aware and our investigator explained, this Service doesnt feel this strict 
application is always fair if the policy holder wasnt aware of the problem. And in this 
instance it is clear that Mrs and Mr F werent aware of any issue until the date of claim. 
Furthermore, QIC hasnt shown that wear and tear was the likely cause but has said that the 
damage was caused by the weight of the soil and slab above the pipe. Our approach in 
circumstances like this is to consider whether a consumer was aware that the damage was 
occurring gradually and took no action. In this case Mrs and Mr F only became aware of a 
crack in the flooring after they lifted the carpet and underlay so they clearly werent aware of 
a problem until the point of claim. And even QICs expert who attended the property didnt 
fully identify the problem upon initial inspection so I dont think it would be fair, in the 
particular circumstances of this case, to say that Mrs and Mr F were aware of a problem 
before the point of claim.
Given all of this, although I accept that QIC was able to decline the claim on a strict 
application of the terms, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do is for QIC to reconsider 
Mrs and Mr Fs claim, including the associated costs, without relying on the exclusions for 
wear and tear or gradual damage. And it should pay £200 compensation in 
acknowledgement of the poor service provided.  
My final decision
It follows for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd 
to reconsider the claim without relying on the exclusions for wear and tear or gradual 
damage and pay £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman