DRN-3881860
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited (DCF) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
At the time the BSPS scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr C had 9 years and 
6 months of pensionable service with his employer which gave him a total (index linked) 
pension of £4,889.52 per year (forecast to be £11,547 per year at age 65 or £6,314 at age 
55). After the DB scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr C joined his employers 
Defined Contribution (DC) scheme. 
In September 2017 Mr C had received a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) from the 
DB scheme of £111,387.09 valid for 3 months. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr C was unsure about what to do so he contacted DCF. DCF completed a fact-find in 
November 2017 to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances and objectives. Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time were noted as follows:
He was aged 29, married with no dependents.
He was employed as an engineer earning £39,000 per year including bonuses. No 
income information for Mr Cs wife was documented. 
Mr C had outgoings of £1,500 per month and a surplus monthly income of £300.
His house was valued at £200,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £95,000 with 25 
years to run.
He had £16,000 saved in an ISA and £2,000 set aside for emergencies. He had no 
other savings or investments. 
He was recorded as being a member of his employers DC scheme, making 
contributions of £180 gross per month with his employer contributing £280 gross per 
month; the fund was valued at approximately £3,000. 
He had a life insurance policy  the amount of cover was undocumented  along with 
death in service cover from his employer of four times his salary.
His preferred retirement age was 57 and he estimated he would need 70% of his 
current income in retirement. 
That he didnt want to risk his benefits being reduced in the future by either the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or the BSPS2. 
He wanted to take control of his pension away from his employer and liked the idea 
of flexible death benefits and being able to leave his remaining pension fund to his 
wife.
DCF also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to be 
moderate to aggressive or a risk level of 6 on a scale of 1 to 10 although it noted Mr C said 
he wanted to proceed on a risk level of 7. It also thought he had the capacity for loss as 
determined by his ATR. 
A transfer value analysis report (TVAS) was produced on 6 November 2017 which set out 
the amount of investment growth (known as the critical yield) required by the transferred 
funds to be able to match the benefits being given up in the BSPS. It said Mr Cs pension 
would need to achieve growth of 6.16% each year to match his full scheme income at age 
65 or 7.17% to match his full scheme income at age 55. It also stated that Mr Cs pension 
would need to grow by 4.77% to match the benefits he could receive from the PPF at age 
65. 
On 8 November 2017 DCF provided Mr C with its suitability report and advised him to 
transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds with a provider 
(L) in 19 different funds to be actively managed by DCF. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation to Mr C were, in summary: 
Control of the pension fund.
That he wanted the opportunity to vary income in retirement to meet changing 
circumstances.
To have access to 25% of his fund as tax-fee cash (TFC) at age 55 without taking an 
income at the same time.
To avoid the penalties associated with accessing the BSPS before his normal 
retirement date (NRD).
The uncertainty about the future of BSPS, about benefits being cut further, about the 
scheme entering the PPF and losing the flexibility to access the fund.
Flexible death benefits.
Mr C accepted the recommendation and signed the transfer forms on 7 November 2017. 
The forms were submitted to L and Mr C signed a declaration on 5 December 2017 to say 
that he had received and read the suitability report. DCF were remunerated with an initial 
advice fee of £2,784.68 and an annual ongoing adviser fee of 1% of the fund value. L also 
charged an annual fee of 0.25%. The transfer took effect in early March 2018.
In October 2020 Mr Cs personal pension was valued at £121,877.19.
In December 2020, Mr Cs representative complained to DCF that the advice hed been 
given to transfer out of his DB scheme had been unsuitable and that the transfer shouldnt 
have been recommended in his circumstances as they were at the time. 
DCF looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt agree that it should be upheld. It said the advice 
it had given Mr C was suitable, was in his best interests had met his needs and objectives. It 
said that the transfer enabled Mr C to take control of his benefits away from his employer 
and remove future uncertainty. And it said Mr C was happy to take an investment risk with 
the aim of improving his benefits. DCF also said that, by transferring, Mr C could also take early retirement without his pension being subject to early actuarial reductions and that he 
also now had death benefits structured to his wishes. DCF said that even though it didnt 
think it had done anything wrong it had calculated the value of the benefits Mr C would have 
within the BSPS2 anyway in line with the pension review methodology. It said it was able to 
confirm that Mr Cs financial position hadnt been compromised. 
Unhappy with the outcome of DCFs investigation, Mr C complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He said he 
thought the transfer wasnt suitable for Mr C because it wasnt financially viable in that it was 
evident from the growth rate identified that he would attain significantly lower benefits at 
retirement than had been available under the BSPS. He said that DCF hadnt provided Mr C 
with a recommendation for why he should give up his BSPS benefits. He thought Mr C had 
limited investment experience so he would have been relying on DCF to make him a suitable 
recommendation but it hadnt. Our Investigator said that DCF should have included 
information about the BSPS2 within its advice to Mr C but hadnt done so.
Our Investigator went on to say that Mr C was likely to be no worse off, or even slightly 
better off, by remaining in his DB scheme and transferring to the PPF. And he wasnt fully 
persuaded that the different death benefits offered by the SIPP were better than those 
available to Mr C under his DB scheme. He also thought that remaining in the scheme 
meant Mr C would have retained the benefit of being able to apply for an ill-health pension 
which wasnt a benefit offered by the SIPP. Finally our Investigator thought that it was 
difficult for Mr C to be certain, at the age of 29, about what shape he wanted his retirement 
to take. Our Investigator concluded that the advice DCF gave Mr C should have been based 
around a comparison with BSPS2 and around how it was in his best interests to remain 
within his DB scheme despite the worry that was circulating amongst his colleagues. 
Our Investigator recommended that DCF should compensate Mr C for the losses he incurred 
by transferring his DB pension and that compensation should be based on him having opted 
to join the BSPS2. 
Mr Cs representative replied to say that he accepted our Investigators findings. 
DCF responded to say it disagreed with our Investigators findings which, it said, were unfair 
and unreasonable. It made the following comments: 
BSPS2 was far from certain at the time so it plainly could not have recommended a 
transfer. It wasnt created until 31 January 2018. 
It had provided Mr C with a list of the advantages and disadvantages of the transfer, 
assessed his ATR and made sure he understood about investment risk and it had 
acted in Mr Cs best interests. 
It didnt accept that the critical yield should be the focal point for assessing the 
suitability of its advice. The only critical yield that should be used for comparison 
purposes was the one for the PPF so any focus on the critical yields associated with 
BSPS was wrong because it wasnt going to continue.
The total annualised investment return on Mr Cs fund whilst it was managing his 
pension was 10.58% which was well in excess of the annual critical yield for the PPF 
of 5.66%. there was no reason why Mr C wouldnt have continued to enjoy annual 
returns of 10.58%. 
It questioned the focus on discount rates. The regulator didnt require firms to 
consider or apply discount rates when advising consumers. 
That our Investigators view was contrary to FCA guidance and had failed to consider 
the overall suitability of the advice including Mr Cs circumstances, objectives and 
instructions. The critical yield doesnt determine the overall suitability of the advice.
Mr C wanted to take a flexible income in retirement, to be able to retire at age 57 
without actuarial reductions to his pension or without having to take an income at the 
same time as taking TFC, to avoid the PPF and to be able to consolidate his pension 
arrangements when he retired. 
That Mr Cs death benefits improved on transferring. 
That even if it hadnt advised Mr C to transfer he would have proceeded anyway as 
an insistent client. 
Mr C had four compelling reasons for accessing his pension: to retire early without 
actuarial reduction; to access TFC without drawing an income from his pension; to 
take control of his pension; to allow any unused pension to be left to his wife and any 
potential children in the event of his death. Mr C would not have been able to achieve 
his objectives without transferring. 
That our Investigators view diminished the importance of Mr Cs objectives and 
instructions he gave at the time of the advice which didnt reflect the COBS rules and 
guidance or the FCAs guidance for assessing the suitability of the transfer. This 
made it unfair and unreasonable. 
Our Investigator considered what DCF had said in response to his view but wasnt 
persuaded to change his mind about Mr Cs complaint. He said that his view wasnt based 
on critical yields alone. And he said DCF should have done more to counter Mr Cs 
preconceptions about the early retirement reductions in the BSPS or PPF. Also he said that 
he didnt think accessibility of his pension funds was much of a priority for Mr C at that point 
in time. He thought it was more likely Mr C had sought advice because of what was going on 
with his employer rather than any desire to avail himself of pension freedoms. Our 
Investigator said the same could be applied to Mr Cs objective of control of his pension  
he thought this probably wouldnt have occurred to him but for the issues going on and, in 
any event, the PPF would allowed him to take his pension benefits early. 
Our Investigator also thought that, given Mr Cs age, it would be difficult to predict how much 
of his pension hed want to access and why he would need a lump sum at age 55. Any 
concerns about benefits being cut further should have been considered in tandem with the 
risks posed by investment performance. And our Investigator said he wondered if it was 
sufficiently important to risk a lower level of income in retirement just to have the option of 
being able to pass on any remaining capital to ones dependents. He thought that the option 
of life assurance should have been explored and the benefit of an ill health pension (by 
remaining in the scheme) highlighted. 
The complaint was referred to me and I issued a provisional decision in December 2022 
recommending that the complaint was upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCF's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, like our Investigator, Ive decided 
to uphold the complaint but some of my reasoning differs from his conclusions.
The regulator, the FCA, states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer 
from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DCF should have only considered a transfer if 
it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
DCF carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year (the critical yield) in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme. This analysis was based on his existing BSPS 
scheme benefits, but Mr C didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS; he either needed to 
opt into BSPS2 or move with the existing BSPS scheme to the PPF. 
DCF has strongly argued that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead so the only comparison it 
could provide was with the benefits available to Mr C through the PPF. But I think DCF 
overestimated the chance of this not happening; Mr C had received his Time to Choose 
pack by the time the advice was given. And details of the scheme had been provided; the 
BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been 
lower. Of course, its possible this may not have gone ahead, but I still think the proposed 
benefits available to Mr C through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored in with this advice so 
that he was able to make an informed decision. 
According to the fact-find and the suitability report Mr C wanted to retire from British Steel 
early, possibly at age 57. Mr C estimated he would need income in retirement that was 70% 
of his current pay. However, that doesnt appear to have been anything more than a best 
guess, given he was only 29 at the time of the advice and would likely continue working for 
around another 30 years.
The TVAS dated 6 November 2017 set out the relevant critical yields; at age 65 it was 6.16% 
if he took a full pension and at age 55 it was 7.17%. Given that one of the objectives Mr C 
had, and one of the advantages of the transfer DCF cited, was to take 25% TFC flexibly it is 
notable that DCF didnt calculate the critical yield required for such a scenario at either age. 
The critical yield required to match the benefits provided through the PPF was 4.77% if Mr C 
took a full pension at age 65 or 4.58% if he took a reduced pension and a pension 
commencement tax free lump sum (PCLS). At age 55 the critical yields were 5.84% and 
5.66% respectively. As Ive said above, Mr C remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits should also have been 
provided by DCF. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased 
the critical yields somewhat but, I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those 
reflecting the PPF benefits, particularly at age 65. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.7% per year for 35 years to retirement (age 
65) and 4.6% for 25 years to retirement (age 55). For further comparison, the regulator's 
upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower 
projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. DCF says it assessed that Mr C was likely to 
be a moderate to aggressive risk investor given he had around 30 years before he expected 
to retire, so he had the capacity to build pension funds in between and tolerate some losses. 
However, Im unable to agree with DCFs assessment of Mr Cs ATR. There is nothing in the 
fact-find to support the conclusion that Mr C was an individual whose ATR was bordering on 
aggressive (or level 6 on a scale of 1 to 10  later increasing to level 7). I would expect 
someone whose ATR is assessed at a level 7 to be able to display some evidence of 
previous investment experience. However, Mr C is recorded as having no investment 
experience. He has savings but they are in a cash ISA. There was nothing in his profile that, 
in my view, could lead to the conclusion that Mr C, someone with no experience of investing 
in the stock market, should reasonably be classified as someone with a moderate to 
aggressive ATR. 
And Ive seen the risk questionnaire and note that Mr C said that a fall of more than 10% in 
the value of his investment over the course of a single year would concern him. I think that 
Mr Cs ATR, given his personal circumstances at the time, should more reasonably have 
been assessed as medium/moderate (or level 5 on DCFs ATR questionnaire). 
I dont think that the length of time Mr C had to go to retirement means his capacity for loss 
was significant. I can see that Mr C had £16,000 in savings at the time of the advice and that 
he had 25 years left to run on his mortgage. It cant be assumed that just because Mr C had 
30+ years to go until he retired that he could afford to gamble by transferring his DB 
scheme. The income he was forecast to receive at retirement from the scheme (if he 
remained) is, I think, one he didnt have the capacity to lose. 
There would be little point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Here, the 
lowest critical yield was 4.58%, which was based on Mr C taking a reduced pension and a 
PCLS through the PPF at age 65. The critical yield if Mr C took a full pension (no critical 
yield having been produced for a reduced pension and TFC) through his existing scheme at 
age 65 was 6.16%. So, if Mr C were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at 
age 65 the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely closer 
to 6.16%.
Given the discount rate of 4.7% the regulators middle projection rate of 5%, and a 
reasonable assessment of Mr Cs ATR, I think Mr C was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by the PPF and the BSPS2 if he transferred to a 
personal pension, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. And I am confident 
had DCF informed Mr C of the true value and benefits of BSPS2 and the PPF, and then 
advised him to remain in the BSPS, he would have accepted this and when the availability of 
BSPS2 arose, he would have opted to be transferred into it.
DCF says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking 
this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based 
my findings on this alone, I think it is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to 
determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under 
COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid 
under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered 
a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in 
tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer 
to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Cs attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe 
hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
Furthermore, DCF said in its suitability letter: The critical yield required is high and it would 
be very unlikely that an investment could provide a return to match the benefits you are 
giving up. So it is clear to me that DCF realised that by transferring, Mr C would be unable 
to match the benefits he was giving up. 
DCF provided analysis in the TVAS of the critical yields Mr Cs pension would need to attain 
for retirement at ages 55 and 65 and along with analysis of how long his pension last if he 
drew the same income (indexed linked) as provided by his DB scheme (without taking any 
TFC). If he retired at age 65 his pension would run out by the time he was 94 and if he 
retired at 55 it would run out by the time he was 95. If Mr C been advised to remain in BSPS 
however and transfer to the PPF or BSPS2, his pension would never have run out, 
regardless of how long he lived.
I note too that the TVAS analyses the hurdle rate (the rate of return required to purchase an 
annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by the existing 
scheme assuming no spouses pension and no index linking). The hurdle rate to age 65 was 
4.05% and to age 55 was 3.59%. So only the hurdle rates (and one of the critical yields I 
mentioned above  but only just) are below the discount rate I have referred to above. But 
only by using a method of comparison that didnt match the guaranteed benefits in Mr Cs 
BSPS, could it be argued that the DB scheme transfer was financially viable. But of course, 
both the index linking and spouses pension are very valuable benefits so I dont accept the 
hurdle rate to NRD at age 65 demonstrates that the transfer was suitable and in Mr Cs best 
interests. 
While DCF has referred to the past performance of the funds it recommended to him, as 
DCF will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider 
the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard 
in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long 
period of time.
In summary, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Cs benefits were reduced as a 
result, if he retired early I think he would have still been very unlikely to match, let alone 
exceed, those benefits by transferring to a personal pension. By transferring his pension 
I think it was highly likely that Mr C would be financially worse off in retirement. Given Mr C was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
his best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice, as DCF has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which 
mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Cs best interests, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems the main reason that DCF recommended this transfer was for the flexibility and 
control it offered Mr C. Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr C needed to transfer 
his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement. Nor do I think 
he needed to access his DB scheme before his NRD such that it was at risk of actuarial 
reduction.
It's evident that Mr C could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take TFC and a reduced annual pension, Mr C had to take those benefits at the 
same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr C had any concrete need to take TFC and defer 
taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To my mind this seems more 
of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective.
Furthermore, DCFs advice ignores the retirement funds that Mr C would be building up over 
the next 30+ years, through his employers DC scheme. The fact-find says that the 
combined contributions of Mr C and his employer into his DC scheme were £460 per month. 
So it is reasonable to assume that even with modest investment growth over the next 30+ 
years, Mr C will have access to a significant fund by the time he retires. And Mr C could use 
his DC scheme if he wanted to retire early, without needing to access his DB scheme before 
his NRD (thereby avoiding any actuarial reduction).
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr C had opted into the BSPS2 
and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 65 Mr C 
wouldve been entitled to a pension of £7,081 per year (along with a PCLS of £47,211) from 
the PPF. This was lower than the pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I dont 
think it wouldve been substantially lower such that it shouldve made a difference to the 
recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr C wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until his 
state pension became payable, or until he reached his DB scheme NRD if he wanted to 
retire earlier. So, I still think Mr C couldve most likely met his needs in retirement even if the 
BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had to move with it to the PPF.
Furthermore, the fact-find noted that Mr C already had savings of £16,000 and he had a 
monthly surplus income of £300 (his wifes income details were undocumented). It is 
reasonable to assume that Mr Cs disposable income could be put towards building his 
savings pot further. And his mortgage was due to be paid off by the time Mr C was aged 54 
meaning he would have even more disposable income to put towards his savings thereafter. 
So potentially, by the time he wanted to retire, Mr C could have had a substantial savings pot 
to access flexibly to top up his retirement income.
DCF says Mr C wanted a retirement income of 70% of his monthly salary of £1,800 (so, 
£1,260)  that was in todays terms however, meaning that in reality his income at retirement 
would need to be a lot higher. However, this was some 30 years away, so I think it was too 
soon for Mr C to realistically know what income hed need in retirement. DCF says that the 
value of the scheme income at age 65 would be around £8,844. Clearly this would not have 
met the income need Mr C had cited but I dont think this shows that it was in Mr Cs best interests to transfer to a personal pension. As Ive set out above, Mr C was unlikely to obtain 
benefits of the same value at retirement if he transferred his funds to a personal pension. So 
he would have had even less income than was forecast. But I still think Mr C had a better 
chance of achieving his target retirement income of £1,260 per month by opting into the 
BSPS2 (the benefits under which were guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on 
investment growth in a personal pension for all of his retirement funds. The majority of the 
pension provisions Mr C was building up over the next 30 years would be subject to 
investment risk, so I dont think it was reasonable to also place his guaranteed pension funds 
at risk.
And I cant see that there was any known need for the TFC without having to simultaneously 
draw an income (Mr Cs mortgage would be repaid some years before retirement). But if, by 
the time Mr C retired some 30+ years hence, he needed a lump sum without wanting to start 
drawing his pension at the same time there were, as Ive previously explained, other means 
available to him. And I think Mr C couldve met his income needs until his state pension 
became payable at age 68. Mr C would have likely had a significant pension to draw on 
flexibly (from his DC scheme), as and when he needed, to top up his income or take 
additional lump sums. So, I dont think Mr C would have had to sacrifice flexibility in 
retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr C could have met his income needs in retirement by maintaining the 
guaranteed income available to him through the BSPS2 or the PPF at age 65 and taking 
additional funds from his DC scheme until his state pension became payable. So, I dont 
think it was in Mr Cs best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that 
he didnt need. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr C. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think DCF explored to what extent 
Mr C was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr C 
was married so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
his spouse if Mr C predeceased her. There was also provision for a childrens pension (I 
understand Mr C now has two) up to age 23 if they remained in full-time education. I dont 
think DCF made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr C. These were guaranteed and 
escalated  the spouses pension would also be calculated as if no TFC had been taken  so 
they were not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death 
in a personal pension was. And as the TVAS shows Mr Cs pension fund would be depleted 
by age 94 if he achieved an annual investment return of 6.16%, so there may not have been 
a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on when he died. In any event, DCF should not have 
encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
DCF says that Mr C couldnt have achieved his objective of leaving a lump sum to his wife 
and children without transferring his pension; Im unable to agree. Transferring his pension 
was clearly not the only way for Mr C to achieve this objective. If Mr C genuinely wanted to 
leave a legacy for his child(ren), which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think DCF couldve explored life insurance further. 
Mr C already had a significant death in service benefit through his employer and I can see 
from the fact-find that he had life insurance (though how much and for what term wasnt 
documented by DCF). So, arguably, Mr C already had sufficient life cover in place. But if he 
wanted an extra sum specifically for his wife (and later his children), he couldve taken extra 
cover out on a whole of life basis and written it in trust for the benefit of any children.
Furthermore, its evident that Mr C could nominate beneficiaries of his choosing under the 
DC scheme. So, hed already made provisions to ensure that the vast majority of his pension 
didnt die with him.
In any event, whilst death benefits might be important for consumer, there generally 
shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr C, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So its quite possible that Mr C was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was DCFs obligation to give Mr C an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice DCF gave Mr C shouldve properly taken the benefits available 
to him through the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Cs concerns 
about the scheme moving to the PPF. 
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCF shouldve 
reassured Mr C that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr C through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of the 
income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to DCF recommending Mr C transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
I also think Mr Cs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr C was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on their own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr C  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme. 
It seems to me that Mr Cs stated desire for control related more to moving his pension 
away from an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to begin to 
manage his investment. 
But it ought to have been explained that Mr Cs employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 
were not one and the same. And in any event, Mr C was not intending to leave his 
employment and his DC pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out 
of the scheme didnt achieve a break from his employer. So had DCF explained that Mr Cs belief regarding the control Mr Cs employer had over his pension was misplaced, I think he 
would have been reassured by this.
Summary
Its clear that Mr C, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So its quite possible that Mr C was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF and his 
employer. However, it was DCFs obligation to give Mr C an objective picture and 
recommend what was in his best interests. 
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr C through 
the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Cs concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But DCF 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to was Mr C suitable or in his best interests. He was 
giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr C was very 
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular 
reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr C had a vague objective to 
retire at age 57 and take some TFC but I dont think this was a fully formed plan; it was some 
30 years away.  And I dont think DCF interrogated this objective in any meaningful way  it 
didnt establish how much TFC or income Mr C would need, so it couldnt offer any real 
insight into whether Mr C couldve met this objective by moving with the scheme to the PPF 
or the new BSPS2, or by using the savings already available to him. So, I dont think Mr Cs 
plans or ambitions were concrete enough for DCF to say it was in his best interests to give 
up his guaranteed benefits and transfer out of the scheme.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr C was likely keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension and colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr C. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explained what he was 
giving up in the BSPS and that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For 
the reasons given above, I think this advice should have been to remain in the BSPS. 
Mr C was being advised by DCF after having received the Time to Choose document and 
was at the point where he had to select which option to he wanted to take. I carefully 
considered what Mr C likely would have done  had he been suitably advised by DCF  and 
on balance I think he would have opted to join the BSPS2. I say this because I dont think 
Mr Cs retirement plans were fully formed. So, I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr C wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme if 
he needed to at some point in the future. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think DCF shouldve advised 
Mr C to opt into the BSPS2.
DCF says the BSPS2 had not been confirmed at the time it was advising Mr C and that it is 
unreasonable for us to say Mr C shouldve been advised to join this scheme as it wasnt a 
genuine option. I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was 
given. But DCF was advising Mr C only a month or so before the Time to Choose form had 
to be returned to Mr Cs employer (and even sent him a reminder letter in early December 
2017). I think it was clear to all parties at this point that talks were progressing well and that 
BSPS2 was very likely to be going ahead. So, contrary to what DCF has said, I do think this 
was an option that it couldve recommended at the time. And I dont think DCF could be said 
to be acting in Mr Cs best interests by ignoring the progress of the new scheme and failing 
to consider whether opting into this scheme was suitable for him.
 
So, I think DCF shouldve advised Mr C to join the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would've gone ahead anyway, against DCF's 
advice. DCF says Mr Cs needs and objectives were only met by transferring to the SIPP 
and considering he was fully aware of the benefits he was sacrificing, and bearing in mind 
the objectives he was keen to achieve, it says he would have continued with the transfer 
regardless. Put simply, DCF says that Mr C was as good as an insistent client who 
wouldve chosen to transfer even if it had advised him against it.
Im not persuaded that Mr Cs concerns about his employer or the PPF were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if DCF had 
explained that Mr C was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him 
by transferring, that he shouldnt be prioritising death benefits over retirement benefits, that 
the flexibility he sought could be met by other means, that the uncertainty over his 
requirements meant transferring at that time was not in interests and that the other things 
hed expressed worry about were not things he needed to be as concerned about as he was, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr C would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
For this reason, I think DCF should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And its the benefits 
offered by the BSPS2 at age 65 which should be used for comparison purposes. This is 
because I know that Mr C is a very long way from retirement and has no firmly formed plans 
around when he will retire. 
I agree with our Investigator that Mr C will have been caused some distress and 
inconvenience by DCFs unsuitable advice so I think that DCF should pay him compensation 
of £300 in recognition of any trouble and upset it has caused him.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision through his representative and said he had no 
further comments to make. DCF replied to my provisional decision and made the following 
new submissions: 
That an ATR of level 7 was reasonable for a young man who had 30 years to go to 
retirement. DCF enclosed a copy of major UK banks Research Equity/Gilt Study 
which illustrated that long term performance in equities consistently outperforms gilts. 
So had DCF opted to assess Mr C as having a level 5 ATR with a more significant 
portfolio weighting towards gilts and bonds then it believes Mr C would have received 
a lower investment yield on his fund. That I had assumed its investment funds would not provide sufficient growth to 
achieve the required yield however they achieved growth of 10.58% per annum 
whilst Mr C was a client. 
The reason why BSPS workers wanted flexibility and control over their pensions was 
due to a deep level of mistrust (owing to a number of different factors in the 
preceding years) toward their employer as a result of job losses and benefit cuts. 
This mistrust meant they wanted to appoint a reputable local firm to manage their 
pensions.
It had to advise on the situation as it stood at the time in 2017 which was that BSPS2 
was not guaranteed to proceed.
I had assumed that Mr C would remain in his employers DC scheme for the next 30 
years but no-one can forecast whether the works will operate for that length of time.
My findings in relation to death benefits are based on the DC scheme running for a 
long time. But the transferred fund had the potential to provide superior benefits 
particularly if Mr Cs spouse died when their children were over the age of 23. 
All workers were adamant they wanted to pass on any unused pension fund to their 
families and they werent interested in life cover because they had 4 x salary death in 
service cover with their employer via their DC scheme. In addition, in Mr Cs case 
there was a policy providing life and critical illness cover. 
It didnt explain to Mr C that he was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed 
benefits available to him under his DB scheme because it didnt believe this was the 
case. 
It objected to basing any compensation calculation on the age of 65 because there 
were at least 7 instances where a retirement age of 55-57 was indicated in 
discussions with Mr C.
The complaint was referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive thought in detail about DCF has said 
in response to my provisional findings but its not persuaded me to change my mind about 
the outcome of this complaint. So, my provisional findings set out above should be taken as 
my findings on this case. However, Ill address each of the points DCF has made in turn. 
Whilst I note DCFs points about why it assessed Mr C as having an ATR at level 7 I set out 
at length in my provisional findings why I didnt consider this to be a suitable assessment for 
someone of Mr Cs very limited investment experience; in my view the evidence didnt 
support a level 7 assessment and DCFs comments here havent persuaded me to change 
my mind about that. It may well be that in the long-term equities outperform gilts but DCFs 
duty was to fairly and reasonably assess Mr Cs actual ATR and apply an investment 
strategy accordingly. If a fair assessment of Mr Cs ATR meant lower returns on Mr Cs 
investment then the advice DCF gave Mr C should have reflected that. 
Mr Cs investment funds may well have achieved growth of 10.58% per annum whilst he was 
a client but there was no guarantee that this level of growth would continue. And I explained 
provisionally why I considered the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to 
be more realistic in regard to long term investment performance rather than projecting 
historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.Ive thought about DCFs comments about the context around the workers need for flexibility 
and control however, I addressed this issue fully in my provisional decision and DCFs point 
here hasnt caused me to change my mind. I appreciate the situation the workers were in at 
the time and, as my provisional findings stated, its quite possible that Mr C was leaning 
towards the decision to transfer because of the concerns he had about his employer and his 
negative perception of the PPF. However, it was DCFs obligation to give Mr C an objective 
picture and recommend what was in his best interests. I still think it ought to have reassured 
him that moving to the PPF wouldnt have been a poor outcome for him and in any event, 
Mr C had the option of joining the BSPS2.
I addressed in full DCFs point about the situation regarding BSPS2 as it stood at the time of 
the advice in my provisional decision; this point doesnt further DCFs position about this 
issue and I have no further comment to make about it. So, my findings as per my provisional 
decision stand on this point.
I agree that it is impossible to know that Mr Cs place of work would still be operational in 30 
years time. Even if it wasnt, it is reasonable to assume Mr C would have accrued some 
level of pension fund should it close in the future. And, if it did, its not unreasonable to 
assume that Mr C would have secured alternative employment which would also have 
offered him membership of an occupational pension scheme that would have given him a 
similar level of flexibility at retirement. What was known at the time of the advice, and what 
DCF based its advice on, was the fact that Mr C had no intention of leaving his employment. 
And as his DC scheme remained connected to his employer transferring out of his DB 
scheme didnt achieve the symbolic actual break DCF said Mr C wanted in any event. My 
point remains that had DCF explained that Mr Cs belief regarding the control Mr Cs 
employer had over his pension was misplaced, I think he would have been reassured by 
this.
Whilst the transferred fund had the potential to provide superior death benefits particularly if 
Mr Cs spouse died when their children were over the age of 23 the fact is this point is 
predicated on an assumption that Mr C becomes deceased early on in his retirement so that 
there is a sizeable fund to bequeath. The fact remains that if he leads a long and healthy life 
and if investment returns werent as anticipated there will be very little by way of a lump sum 
to leave to his loved ones. So the death benefits associated with the SIPP arent guaranteed 
 not like in the DB scheme. In any event, the priority was to advise Mr C about what was 
best for his retirement provision as a pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. I remain of the view that I dont think DCF explored to what extent Mr C was 
prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits. And 
DCF should not have encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
As Mr C also had a policy providing life cover (and as I said provisionally, how much he had 
wasnt recorded by DCF), then in my view there was even less justification to transfer the DB 
scheme in order to potentially achieve higher death benefits. 
I note DCFs belief that the transfer would exceed the guaranteed benefits Mr C had under 
the DB scheme. I explained provisionally why I thought that was unlikely to be the case. 
Mr C is a very long way from retirement and has no firmly formed plans around when he will 
retire. It is for this reason that I think DCF should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And its the 
benefits offered by the BSPS2 at age 65 which should be used for comparison purposes. 
Ive noted the documents listed by DCF which mention Mr Cs retirement age as being 57. It 
seems to me however that the age noted is expressed very much as a preference rather 
than forming a hard and fast plan. At the time of the advice Mr C was 30 years away from retirement and could not know with any certainty at what precisely what age it he would 
eventually retire. And Ive seen no evidence of any interrogation by DCF of Mr Cs purported 
preferred retirement age and why he had identified it as the point he wanted to retire or 
indeed whether he could afford to do so. 
So given the uncertainty and length of time until retirement during which a preference could 
very easily change, I remain of the view that its the benefits offered by BSPS2 at age 65 that 
should be used for comparison purposes. 
For the reasons Ive given both here and provisionally (and which now form part of this, my 
final decision), I think this is a complaint that should fairly and reasonably be upheld. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance. 
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to come into effect. Mr C 
confirmed that he would like any redress to be calculated in line with current guidance. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for DCFs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have 
most likely opted into the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given.
DCF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
Mr C is a long way from retirement. So, compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the mostrecent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
DCF may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date DCF receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCF to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCF to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
DCF should also pay Mr C compensation of £300 in recognition of any trouble and upset it 
has caused him. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally requireD C Financial Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require D C 
Financial Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman