DRN-2824401
The complaint
Ms H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined a claim 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive only summarised the 
events.
In September 2020 Ms H made a claim for damage to her property as a result of a 
storm. The damage, which occurred some months earlier, happened whilst a loft 
conversion was being carried out. The roof had been temporarily removed by her 
builders and a temporary covering had been put in place. And Ms H says the 
temporary cover did not hold during the storm.
RSA initially declined the claim saying the cause was faulty workmanship by the 
building contractors. Ms H challenged this and was subsequently advised that the 
majority of the claim would be covered due to the presence of storm force winds prior 
to most of the damage occurring.
RSA carried out a further review and told Ms H she shouldve informed RSA about 
the loft conversion work taking place. And had it been informed it wouldve applied a 
temporary endorsement Ms Hs policy saying, Any loss, damage or liability as a 
result of the ongoing works to the risk address, is excluded in full. It said because 
the damage wouldnt have occurred if the building works werent ongoing the claim 
wouldnt be accepted. RSA apologised for misinforming Ms H that the claim would be 
paid. It acknowledged this wouldve caused some distress and offered £100 as 
compensation.
Our investigator felt RSA had acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. He 
looked at the most recent renewal letter which included a statement of facts provided 
by Ms H when she took the policy out. Under the Your property section it states, 
The home isn't undergoing building work other than routine maintenance or 
redecoration. And the renewal letter also said If any of the details are incorrect or 
you need to change any of the information shown in this document, please get in 
touch with us within 30 days of the date of issue shown on your Policy Schedule in 
this pack. If you don't it may invalidate your insurance or mean that your claims are 
rejected or reduced. When there's a change in your circumstances, we may need to 
make changes to your cover, terms and conditions of the policy or the price.
The investigator also said there is a condition in the policy that Ms H needed to notify 
RSA of a change of circumstances that could affect the policy. He added building a 
loft extension is something he felt needed to be reported to the Insurer as building 
works can affect the material risk of the property. 
The investigator didnt think it was unfair for RSA to add the exclusion of damage as 
a result of ongoing works. He acknowledged RSA had created an expectation that 
the claim would be paid, and Ms H was upset and frustrated to be told she wasnt 
covered. However, he felt that the £100 offered by RSA was in line with what he 
wouldve recommended.
Ms H remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view, and broadly for the same reasons, so Im 
not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not unusual for an insurer to request that it be informed of changes to circumstances or 
information previously provided to it. Ms Hs policy document sets out the conditions which 
form part of the contract of insurance. One of those conditions relates to changes in 
circumstances and it says:-
So that we can ensure weve got you fully covered youll need to let us know if during 
the year your circumstances change or you need to change any of the information 
youve provided to us. You can do this using the contact details shown on your Policy 
Schedule.
You must tell us within 30 days as soon as you know about any of the following 
changes:
 an increase in the value of the items shown on your Policy Schedule
 any changes to the information youve previously provided to us and shown on the 
most recent Statement of Facts document sent to you
 youre going to move home permanently.
When Ms H took out her home insurance, she confirmed that her home isnt undergoing 
building work other than routine maintenance or redecoration. This was reflected in the 
statement of facts. And the statement of facts was provided to Ms H when she renewed the 
policy in 2019. Whilst Ive no doubt this statement of facts was correct at the time, the 
renewal letter asked Ms H to advise RSA if any details were incorrect. Specifically it said:- 
If any of the details are incorrect or you need to change any of the information shown 
in this document, please get in touch with us within 30 days of the date of issue shown 
on your Policy Schedule in this pack. If you don't it may invalidate your insurance or 
mean that your claims are rejected or reduced. When there's a change in your 
circumstances, we may need to make changes to your cover, terms and conditions of 
the policy or the price.
Taking into account the policy terms and conditions, the statement of facts provided to Ms H 
at renewal, the request that RSA be informed of any change in information and having set 
out the consequences of not doing so Im satisfied its clear that Ms H shouldve informed 
RSA of the works being undertaken. 
Removing the roof from a property makes a significant change to the material risk faced by 
an insurer. Ive seen evidence that had RSA been informed of the works it wouldve applied 
an endorsement to the policy excluding any loss, damage or liability as a result of the 
ongoing works. And as the damage wouldnt have occurred if the roof hadnt been removed I 
cant say RSA have acted unreasonably in declining the claim.Ive considered everything Ms H has said in response to the investigators view, including her 
not being aware of the need to inform RSA of the building work, and that RSAs claims 
handler didnt mention this to her immediately. However, on balance, in the circumstances of 
this case Im satisfied that RSA have acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman