DRN-2661939
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the excess that Aviva Insurance Limited applied when he made 
a claim under a property owners insurance policy for an escape of water.
What happened
Mr M owns a flat. The buildings insurance policy covers all the flats in the block.
He made a claim to Aviva after his flat suffered damage caused by an escape of water. 
Aviva accepted the claim but said there was a £750 excess for escape of water claims. The 
repairs cost just over £1,000.
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He said normally maintenance and repair costs would be 
shared among other flat owners. He thought it was unreasonable that he should have to 
bear the total excess and that the amount of the excess was unreasonably high.
A complaint was brought to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
Aviva had acted unreasonably.
As Mr M didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to understand that this service doesnt normally assess pricing methodology 
generally, such as considering whether products represent good value for money. So we 
generally accept that for premiums and excesses insurers can charge what they feel they 
need to in order to cover the risk of providing insurance so long as they act fairly. In simple 
terms, that means that they should apply their chosen pricing model consistently between 
their customers whilst ensuring that the customer has the information they need to make an 
informed decision about taking the policy at the price offered. 
When calculating what excess to charge, insurers will take different factors into account  
these include the likelihood and cost of a claim. We wouldnt generally tell Aviva (or any 
insurer) how much it should charge in respect of an excess. Thats because the risk is 
Avivas to take on, so it will decide how to assess it. 
The block policy defines Excess as The amount(s)  specified in Your policy or The 
Schedule which We will deduct from each and every claim  
The Schedule clearly states that the amount of the excess for escape of water claims is 
£750.
Im satisfied that the requirement to pay a policy excess is clearly set out in the policy 
document. In general, policyholders usually understand that a policy excess will apply if they 
make a claim. I appreciate that usually in a block policy the claim will affect more than one 
flat and so the excess will be shared. But I dont think Aviva treated Mr M unfairly in 
requiring him to pay the full amount of the excess for a claim which only affected his flat.
Mr M has said he had little influence on the terms of the policy, being only one flat owner in 
a large block. I accept thats the case. But again I dont think thats Avivas fault.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman