DRN-3840807
The complaint
Mr H complained about the service provided by Nationwide Building Society. He said he 
applied for a transfer of his stocks and shares ISA with a third party to a Nationwide 
cash ISA but this was not carried out. Mr H said Nationwides failure to carry out the 
transfer has meant he has incurred investment losses.
What happened
On 23 May 2022, Mr H said he applied to transfer a stocks and shares ISA from a third 
party to a Nationwide cash ISA. He said he put forward his request using online forms.
Mr H said he received confirmation from Nationwide on 24 May 2022 that his application 
has been reviewed and confirmed and that the funds would be requested from the third 
party. He said he then received a text message from Nationwide a day later, asking him 
to call it. Mr H said he called Nationwide, and it confirmed that because he was looking 
to transfer a stocks and shares ISA that it wasnt sure if it had all the required 
information. Mr H said Nationwide told him that if it didnt that someone would call or 
leave a message with him.
Mr H said Nationwide didnt call him or leave a message so he felt the transfer would go 
ahead at this point. Mr H then contacted Nationwide on 13 May 2022 as he had not 
heard anything. He said Nationwide told him that it didnt initiate the transfer because it 
was waiting on him to return some forms, as it needed further information from him. 
Forms, Mr H said he didnt receive. 
Mr H said at this point, that he could see the value of his stocks and shares ISA had 
fallen and believes that the investment losses he incurred would have been avoided if 
Nationwide had carried out the transfer as he had instructed on 23 May 2022. He made 
a complaint to Nationwide about this. 
Nationwide replied to Mr H and said it sent a text message to him on 25 May 2022 as there 
was a problem with the ISA transfer. It said the advisor that Mr H discussed this with on that 
date, had told him he would send a request to the ISA team to follow things up with him. The 
advisor told Mr H that someone would either send a message or leave one to discuss.
Nationwide said on 27 May 2022 it sent a letter to Mr H to say the ISA transfer was rejected. 
It said it did this as Mr H had completed the wrong form. It said it included with its letter new 
ISA forms for Mr H to complete and said it sent it to the address that Mr H had provided. It 
said it recognises it mismanaged Mr Hs expectations by advising a message would be sent 
to him confirming an update. It said, instead it sent a letter as it needed to send new forms to 
Mr H anyway. But it said, it could see that it didnt do what it said it would do here, so it 
offered Mr H £40 compensation for this. It said it wasnt responsible for any investment 
losses as Mr H had completed the wrong form and it had to cancel the transfer. And Mr H 
had not sent in the new forms or resubmitted his application. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Nationwides response and said he didnt receive the letter or forms 
that it had referred to. Mr H didnt accept Nationwides offer of £40. He referred his complaint 
to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. They 
said Nationwide didnt need to do anything else. They concluded this as they felt after 
reading all the documentation that Mr H had completed the incorrect forms. They said when 
Nationwide was made aware of this, it cancelled the transfer and provided Mr H with the 
correct forms. They then said Nationwide provided guidance on the website as to what was 
needed to complete a transfer involving a stocks and shares ISA and that not following this 
was Mr Hs error. They did agree that Nationwides offer of £40 for not responding in the way 
it said it was going to, was fair and reasonable.  
Mr H didnt agree. He said he completed the forms correctly and any issue with the 
process lies with Nationwide. He said Nationwide twice informed him that it had all the 
information it needed to make the transfer. Mr H said when a business makes an error, 
they are liable to repay for any financial hardship, as is the case here with Nationwide.
He asked for an ombudsman review and so his complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not think Nationwide needs to put things right, anymore than what it has already 
offered.  
These are my findings that explain why:
Mr H said he applied for a transfer of a third-party stocks and shares ISA to a 
new cash ISA account with Nationwide online on 23 May 2022. He said he 
received confirmation a day later that the transfer would go ahead. Mr H said he 
was notified a further time on 25 May 2022 that the transfer would go ahead. 
Nationwide have said that it sent Mr H a text message and then discussed the 
transfer with him on 25 May 2022. It said it did this as Mr H had made a mistake 
within his online application. Its advisor put in a request to its ISA team to deal as 
he was not sure it had all the required information.
Ive listened to the phone call between the parties that took place on 25 May 
2022. Mr H and the advisor first discussed the mistake on the form that Mr H had 
made. Then Mr H informed the advisor that he was looking to transfer from a 
stocks and shares ISA. It was at this point the advisor said he would put in a 
request to the ISA team to deal with as he was not sure it had all the required 
information. 
Mr H said towards the end of the call So based on what you are seeing is it 
possible for them to process the transfer with the information provided?. The 
advisor from Nationwide said Im not sure, because the stocks and shares ISA is 
different to a normal ISA, so Im not 100% sure. I dont want to give you the 
wrong information. So, after listening to this call, I dont think Mr H was told the 
transfer would go ahead. I dont think Mr H wouldve got any assurance about it happening either. Instead, I can hear the advisor saying he would put in a 
request for someone at its ISA team to look at. 
Nationwide said it sent out a letter to Mr H two days later saying it had cancelled 
the transfer. Nationwide has told us this is because Mr H had provided the wrong 
form and details online. Nationwide also sent out new forms along with its letter 
and requested Mr H complete and send them back. Mr H says he didnt receive 
the letter or new forms. 
Nationwide has provided a screenshot of its system. On the screenshot is a note 
where it says it generated a letter and sent out forms to Mr H. Nationwide has 
also provided a letter with Mr Hs address on it, that it says it sent to him. I cant 
be sure what has happened here and it maybe that the letter and forms were 
misplaced in transit to Mr Hs address. But if this was the case, I cant hold 
Nationwide responsible for that. In addition, I am persuaded by what Nationwide 
have sent me, that more likely than not it sent them to Mr H. So, on balance, I 
think Nationwide tried to contact Mr H on this date and provide new forms to him, 
to apply again for a transfer.
I also heard the advisor from Nationwide say to Mr H that it would message him 
or leave a message. Nationwide says it recognises it mismanaged his 
expectations here because it didnt do this. Instead, it chose to send a letter in 
the post. It has explained that it chose to do this instead as it was sending out 
forms to him anyway. It offered £40 in compensation as it says it didnt do what it 
said it would do. When I consider all the circumstances in Mr Hs complaint, I 
think this offer is fair and reasonable. 
Looked at overall, I dont think Nationwide is responsible for any investment losses 
incurred by Mr H in a stocks and shares ISA he holds with a third party. This is because his 
original request for a transfer was cancelled by Nationwide due to a mistake he made with 
the original application. Nationwide tried to notify him and rectify this through a letter and 
forms in the post, but Mr H said he didnt receive them. As I have already concluded, I 
cant hold Nationwide responsible for this. 
Nationwide did say it would send a message or leave one if it needed further information 
and it didnt do that. It has offered compensation of £40. I think this offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to Mr H to pay £40 to settle the 
complaint. I think its offer is fair and reasonable.
So, my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay £40 in total if it hasnt done 
so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman