DRN-1921948
 
The complaint
Mrs V says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about one 12-month instalment loan MYJAR provided to Mrs V on 
22 December 2017. The loan was for £1,100 and was repaid on 29 December 2018.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Vs complaint. Mrs V disagreed saying more checks 
should have been done - she had lots of other high-interest debt and was in arrears and 
had defaulted on many agreements. So the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs V could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mrs V could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mrs Vs complaint.
MYJAR says it agreed to Mrs Vs application after asking for income and expenditure data 
and after completing credit checks and looking at other third party data to verify what Mrs V 
had declared. And this information combined suggested that Mrs V would be able to make 
the repayments she was committing to. So, in these circumstances it wasnt irresponsible 
to provide the loan.
Mrs V disagrees and says she was in a cycle of high-interest borrowing and proper checkls 
would have shown MYJAR the loan was unsustainable for her. I accept that Mrs Vs 
circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the information she provided, or 
the other information MYJAR obtained via the credit checks. And Mrs Vs financial position 
as she now describes it might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank 
statements - had been obtained. But MYJAR could only make its decision based on the 
information it had available at the time.
A credit check that a lender carries out can take many forms. Generally, the information a 
consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to 
that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some 
data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may 
explain any differences between the information provided to MYJAR by its credit check and 
the information Mrs V thinks it should have seen.
It was the start of a lending relationship, and I dont think it was at the stage where 
there were any indicators that the borrowing might be unsustainable for Mrs V. In these 
circumstances, I dont think MYJAR needed to take further steps to complete a fuller 
financial review.
Overall, I think that MYJAR carried out proportionate checks and I havent seen anything in 
the information it gathered that I think should have led it to reach a different lending 
decision.
It follows I dont think MYJAR was wrong to give this loan to Mrs V.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Rebecca ConnelleyOmbudsman