The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc failed to alert him to an investment fraud and that, as a 
result, he's lost nearly £50,000.
What happened
Mr C has explained that he had an investment that was due to mature. In or about March 
2019 he looked into investments to replace it and, through an online search, identified a 
bond which appeared to be offered by an established financial business, regulated in the UK 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I'll call that business K. In fact, the investment 
wasn't offered by K at all; fraudsters had cloned its details. 
Mr C contacted what he thought to be K and discussed the investment. He then went to his 
branch of TSB to arrange a transfer of just over £50,000. He says that branch staff carried 
out checks and approved the transfer. When Mr C checked that it had been received, 
however, he was told it hadn't been; the payment was returned to him in full.
A few days later, Mr C went back to the branch to re-send the money. This time he 
completed a request to transfer just under £50,000 to the company he believed to be K. 
Again, branch staff carried out checks before approving the transfer. The bank says those 
checks included calling K, but that it was unable to confirm the account details that Mr C had 
been given. 
Some months later, Mr C tried to contact K using the details he'd been given. He was 
however unable to do so and found out shortly afterwards that he hadn't been dealing with K 
at all and that he'd sent money to fraudsters.
Mr C thought that K, the bank to which he'd sent the money, the police and the FCA should 
have acted sooner. The FCA had posted warnings about the scam, but not until about two 
months after he'd sent his money to the fraudsters. 
Mr C also complained to TSB. He thought he should have been warned that there was a risk 
he would be a victim of a scam. He said that branch staff told him they had checked the 
transaction, but hadn't warned him about it. They should have identified that it was a scam 
and stopped it. The bank said that, whilst checks had been carried out, it was for Mr C to 
satisfy himself that the transaction was genuine and that he had not fallen victim to a scam. 
Mr C referred the case to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He noted 
that Mr C had authorised the payment but didn't think that TSB was under any obligation to 
stop it. Mr C didn't accept the investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.       
DRN-1872451What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first of all that Mr C has been the victim of what appears to have been a 
sophisticated scam. He's explained that the fraudsters used the names of genuine staff at K, 
for example; the fact that both K and the FCA later published warnings about the scam 
suggests that others fell victim to it as well.
It's not in dispute though that Mr C authorised both payments - the one that was returned 
and the one that wasn't. By that I mean that he instructed TSB to transfer money from his 
account to the account identified the sort code and account number he provided. This was 
not a case where, for example, someone else managed to gain access to his account.
We would however expect banks in cases such as this to take reasonable steps to recover 
money from the receiving bank. I'm satisfied TSB did that here but that, by the time it found 
out what had happened, there was nothing left to recover.   
The main issues I need to consider are, therefore, whether TSB wrongly advised Mr C about 
the risk of making the payment and, if it didn't give advice, whether it should have done.
Generally, a bank isn't under any obligation to provide advice to customers about whether or 
not to make a payment. It's primarily for the customer to ensure that they're paying the right 
person and, for example, that they are getting the goods or services they've paid for. There 
are of course some exceptions, in particular where card payments are involved, but I 
wouldn't expect banks to monitor most transactions - and indeed, it wouldn't be possible. 
However, where a bank chooses to provide advice, whether generally or in relation to a 
specific transaction, it should do so with reasonable care and skill. 
It's clear that branch staff in this case carried out additional checks before processing the 
transfer that led to the losses. I would expect that to happen, given the sum of money 
involved. The bank's submissions indicate that those checks included a telephone call to the 
beneficiary of the funds. It's not however clear whether that was a reference to K or to the 
actual beneficiary, who was pretending to be K. The bank's notes suggest to me however 
that the call was to K. The outcome was that the person who took that call was unable to 
provide any information about K's accounts. Had TSB called the fraudster, I think it's likely 
they would have confirmed the account details, since that would be more likely to ensure 
payment was made. I think it's more likely than not that TSB did contact K, not the 
fraudsters.
So, should the call to K have given TSB cause for concern? A financial business such as K 
would no doubt have many different accounts for different purposes. It's unlikely in my view 
that someone answering a query by telephone would have been in a position, therefore, to 
confirm the account details that were needed for a particular investment. For that reason, I 
don't believe that TSB's conversation with K was a cause for concern; the outcome wasn't 
unexpected.
Mr C says that TSB should have warned him specifically about fraud of this type and 
suggests too that it should have been aware of this fraud. Banks do provide warnings about 
common types of fraud, and TSB says here that it checked, for example, that Mr C hadn't 
replied to cold-calling or been sent amended account details by email. But none of the types 
of scam it asked about covered this particular fraud, which stemmed from cloned details 
which Mr C found online. I note that there was some mention online of such a scam involving K at about the time Mr C made the payment, but it wouldn't have been widely known until 
later. 
Mr C has said, and I accept, that TSB told him after it had made its checks that the 
paperwork was in order and the transaction had been approved. I don't believe however 
that, in saying that, TSB was indicating that it had checked the recipient or its details; it 
certainly wasn't saying that there was no risk or that it was prepared to take on the risk that 
Mr C was being scammed.
Mr C has described in some detail the conversations and other contacts he had with the firm 
he believed to be K, both before and after he made the payment. He clearly believed he was 
dealing with K, and there were no obvious signs that he wasn't. As I've indicated, the fraud 
appears to have been a sophisticated one, and Mr C has my sympathy. In the 
circumstances, however, I don't believe I can fairly conclude that TSB should have identified 
that Mr C was making a payment to a fraudster.      
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I don't require TSB Bank plc to do anything 
further to resolve Mr C's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman