DRN-4111895
The complaint
Mr T complains about how UK Insurance Limited dealt with and progressed a claim he made
under his household insurance following an escape of water.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
jurisdiction decision dated 31 March 2023  a copy of which is set out here. In my provisional 
decision I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I said:
What happened
Mr T held a home insurance policy with UK Insurance Limited, hereafter referred to as UKIL.
In July 2021 Mr Ts property suffered an escape of water which led to his ensuite bathroom
sustaining damage. He contacted UKIL to report the claim and there were discussions, at
the outset, as to whether the builder Mr T had used previously could assist with the repair.
Mr T made enquiries with his building contact and confirmed with UKIL, in around 
September 2021, that he wanted it to appoint a contractor to scope and repair the ensuite
bathroom.
UKIL appointed a company, which Ill refer to as A. A visited Mr Ts property and drew up a
scope of the remedial work that it thought was needed to reinstate the ensuite. This was
submitted to UKIL for approval and work was due to commence in January 2022. However,
the work didnt commence as planned.
A stated that Mr T had requested it undertake work that it said would result in betterment. A
considered this to be private work and said it told Mr T it couldnt undertake work on a
private basis. A said Mr T insisted that the scope of work be revised to include the
amendments he wanted to make to his bathroom. However, Mr T refutes this and said he 
asked A to reinstate his bathroom to its pre-loss condition.
Mr T said there were long periods of time during the claim where he didnt hear from A
despite chasing. He also said he had to contact UKIL for progress updates. Mr T explained
that this all caused unnecessary delay and loss of the use of his ensuite bathroom for an
extended period of time. So, he complained to UKIL about the handling of his claim.
When UKIL investigated Mr Ts concerns it upheld his complaint. In its final response letter,
dated 9 June 2022, UKIL accepted that an impasse had been reached where work hadnt
taken place as planned. It said this was due to confusion regarding what work Mr T had
requested or expected under the terms of his policy. UKIL accepted Mr Ts account that he
hadnt insisted on A undertaking betterment work. And it paid him £150 compensation to
recognise the trouble and upset hed been caused by poor communication and delay.
Being dissatisfied with how UKIL proposed to resolve his complaint, Mr T referred it to our
service where one of our investigators looked into what had happened. After considering the
evidence from Mr T and UKIL, our investigator didnt recommend upholding this complaint as
they thought the compensation already paid was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
UKIL accepted our investigators view of this complaint but Mr T didnt. He didnt think our
investigator had undertaken a thorough investigator and thought the way in which his
complaint had been assessed was inaccurate and unfair. Ive therefore been asked to
decide how this complaint should be resolved.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Mr T and UKIL that, in
considering this complaint, I thought very carefully about what happened here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr T and UKIL for the
level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all the information
provided and if I havent specifically referred to a point thats been made it isnt because I
havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues namely
whether the UKIL acted reasonably in offering to resolve this complaint and whether the
compensation paid is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate this has been a stressful situation for Mr T. I can imagine that he thought at the
start the claim was all going to be sorted out with minimal fuss. But there were avoidable
delays in how the claim was progressed and there was poor communication. This is bound
to have caused trouble and upset to Mr T and, as Ive already mentioned, UKIL paid £150
compensation in relation to what happened.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding this complaint because they were persuaded
that, while there was delay and poor communication, the compensation already paid by UKIL
was fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances. Im afraid I dont agree.
UKIL accepts that the claim was poorly managed with poor communication by A. It also
conceded that the confusion over the scope of work that Mr T expected to be covered under
his policy caused progress to halt and an impasse to be reached.
Work on the ensuite bathroom was due to commence in January 2022. This was around 6
months after the escape of water occurred. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that 
this period was unreasonable or unnecessarily protracted. Ive therefore carefully considered
what happened from January 2022 when the work that had been planned didnt start.
Mr T said he suggested changes to the bathroom layout, which related to the rerouting of
pipe work. He said he made such suggestions in efforts to make the reinstatement process
easier and less work intensive. He denied being insistent on these suggestions being
incorporated into the remedial work as he simply wanted his bathroom to be repaired to its
pre-loss state.
Based on the evidence Ive seen I accept what Mr T has said about how the changes came
to be discussed. Ive seen no evidence from A or UKIL that persuades me that Mr T was
insistent on the reinstatement work only being undertaken subject to the suggestion hed
proposed. So, its difficult to understand how such an impasse came to be reached and why
work was delayed for such an extended period.Like our investigator, Im satisfied that UKIL acted reasonably and fairly in declining to pay
for the changes that Mr T had suggested. I say this because rerouting the pipe work as Mr T
had suggested would have been more expensive than leaving the pipes in their original pre-
loss position. Under the policy terms this would constitute betterment for which Mr T would
be financially responsible. Theres no evidence showing that this was discussed with Mr T at
the outset of the claim or that hed agreed to fund betterment costs.
A and UKIL ought to have been able to resolve the confusion over the scope of work
permitted under the policy relatively quickly. But it wasnt until June 2022 when A contacted
Mr T to progress the reinstatement works by asking him to confirm his choice of materials. It
shouldnt have taken 5 months from the date the project was originally due to commence for
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman