DRN-4448098
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax incorrectly charged him a fee 
when he first took his mortgage. This has been refunded with interest, but he wants further 
compensation.
What happened
Mr B took a mortgage with Halifax with a joint party who is not named on this complaint in 
2016. A fee of £495 was charged to the mortgage.
In 2016, Halifax realised it had made a mistake in charging fees to a number of mortgages 
when it shouldnt have. It wrote to Mr B telling him of its error and offering a refund of the fee 
plus 8% simple interest from the date it was charged to the date it was paid. Halifax offered 
Mr B 50% of the refund as the mortgage was taken out in joint names.
Mr B complained saying the interest added wasnt compensation and he felt he was due 
compensation. Halifax didnt agree so Mr B referred his complaint to our Service.
One of our Investigators looked into this complaint. He didnt think further compensation was 
warranted.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he didnt agree that refunding the fee was enough. He thought 
compensation should be paid for the error made by Halifax. And he said 8% interest was 
incorrect.
The complaint has now been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that a mistake has been made here  Halifax has charged a fee that it 
shouldnt have. The first matter I need to consider is whether there has been a financial loss 
and whether this has been put right.
The fee shouldnt have been charged, and Halifax has now refunded 50% of this to Mr B. Its 
also added 8% simple interest from the date the fee was charged to the date the refund was 
made. 
Mr B has said he doesnt think the 8% rate is correct, but he hasnt said why. 8% is the 
standard rate wed expect a business to use when compensating a consumer for lack of the 
use of funds. As this is the rate Halifax has used, I think this is fair and reasonable. So, Im 
not going to ask it to do anything further in this regard.
Mr B also considers he should be paid further compensation because a mistake has been 
made.
Ive thought about this. But I dont agree. We dont award further compensation just because 
a mistake has been made. Our awards arent designed to be punitive to a business either  
we are not the industry regulator.
As our Investigator set out in his opinion, we can make an award for the distress and 
inconvenience that a mistake has caused. However, I dont think this is warranted in this 
case. Mr B wasnt aware of a mistake until Halifax wrote to him telling him of the mistake and 
offering a refund. And his mortgage was redeemed five years prior to this mistake being 
identified. Whilst I appreciate it cant be nice to hear a mistake has been made on your 
mortgage, I think any distress would be at most minimal. And I cant see that this matter has 
caused any inconvenience to Mr B. So, Im not going to tell Halifax to pay further 
compensation. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman