DRN-3555491
The complaint
Ms K complained that her claim was unnecessarily delayed by AXA Insurance UK Plc 
(AXA) under her block home insurance policy, which caused her to lose rental income on 
her property. The policy was taken out by Ms Ks management company, but she benefitted 
as a leaseholder.
What happened
Ms K owned a bottom floor flat that she rented out. Following a leak in the flat above on 20 
July 2021, Ms Ks flat had damage in the kitchen and living room and the ceiling partially 
collapsed. As the property was in a poor condition, Ms Ks tenant terminated her agreement 
to rent the flat.
Ms K submitted an escape of water claim to AXA and it commenced its validation of the 
claim. It asked Ms K to provide evidence of the damage and what had caused it. AXA asked 
Ms K to obtain two quotes for having the damage repaired.
Ms K provided the information requested and AXA appointed a loss adjuster who further 
validated the damage and the cost of repairs on 25 August 2021.
Ms K then experienced a period of delays for various reasons which were generally 
accepted as avoidable delays by AXA. Most notably this including Ms K taking the decision 
to commission her own structural engineer at her own risk as shed lost faith in the service 
provided by AXA and its contractors. This approach exposed several deficiencies in the work 
that had been recommended by AXAs contractors.
AXAs initial attempt to cash settle the claim for damage was initially rejected by Ms K, but 
was she later accepted a revised offer on 24 January 2022 once the value of the settlement 
offer had been significantly increased. Ms K felt the delays in reaching a settlement were 
avoidable. She said this delayed her been able to repair the damage to her flat, which 
delayed when she could rent it out. So, she wanted AXA to compensate her for the rental 
income she lost.
AXA said you advised me that your tenant moved out of the property on the day the incident 
occurred. There was nothing that we could have done to prevent this and I cannot see that 
the tenant moved out because of any wrongdoing on our part. I am unable to consider your 
loss of rent costs as a financial loss, had you taken out cover for loss of rent this would have 
been included as part of the claim. 
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought the compensation paid by 
AXA for the various delays had been fair. However, she thought the avoidable delays AXA 
had caused created a consequential loss for Ms K in lost rental income, so she decided AXA 
should reimburse this for the period 15 September 2021 to 24 January 2022. She also 
added 8% interest according to each month the rent would have been paid to the date of
settlement. AXA disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 17 June 2022. I said:
In the investigators view, she commented on the fairness of the compensation already paid 
by AXA for the various delays. She considered the impact these delays had on Ms K and 
she concluded the compensation Ms K was paid for each separate delay fairly reflected the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her. Ms K accepted our investigators view on this 
point, so my decision will not consider this anymore.
AXA has disagreed with the investigators view on the point around the consequential loss of 
rental income. It doesnt think it should be liable for this. I have checked Ms Ks policy 
schedule and can see that Ms K chose not to pay the premium needed for this cover, 
therefore, Ms K isnt covered by the policy for loss of rental income.
However, Ms K think the errors and delays that have been caused by AXA and its 
contractors were avoidable. She said these delays caused subsequent delays in her 
repairing her house, which she said ultimately delayed in her been able to rent her property 
out.
AXA said, I am of the opinion that Ms K could have mitigated her own financial losses by 
attempting to rent out the property in its damaged state, at a reduced rental amount, as the 
property wasnt uninhabitable. I dont find this statement persuasive as it contradicts what is 
written within the claim notes kept by AXA. One of the notes written by an AXA 
representative states This claim was going on for far too long and we are at fault for that
and [our contractor], the insured has lost income and continues to do so as the property is 
uninhabitable. The delays on this are unacceptable. Therefore, I dont think its likely the 
property couldve been rented out in its damaged state.
AXA has caused delays  Ms K was expecting AXA to manage her claim at a time of 
difficulty for her. When she needed help most, her insurer, the organisation expected to help 
her let her down. AXA has acknowledged this. From what AXA has said, it implies it thinks 
Ms K shouldve predicted all these delays that AXA caused, pay costs at her expense to 
make some temporary repairs on the off chance someone would rent her property out at a 
reduced rate and knowing that they may need to move out for a period of four days to allow 
the permanent repairs to take place. I dont think this is a reasonable expectation.
By AXAs own admission, Ms Ks property was uninhabitable and the delays to getting her 
repairs completed were unacceptable. AXA resolved the claim by finally offering a cash 
settlement as it couldnt get the work completed in a satisfactory time. I think this situation 
was avoidable had AXA managed the claim efficiently. So, I think AXA are responsible for 
the consequential loss of rental income for the delays it caused. Therefore, I intend to uphold 
this complaint. I appreciate Ms K didnt have certainty she wouldve rented her property out, 
but I think the delays AXA caused were significant, so I think its likely these avoidable 
delays had a direct impact on her not been able to rent out her home  so I do think its liable 
for the consequential loss of rental income.
The flat was rented at the time of the incident, so I think its a reasonable assumption that 
the flat in decent condition wouldve been rented out again. Ms K was denied this opportunity 
due to the delays. Ms K has demonstrated that she did rent out the flat later following the 
repairs. So, Ive considered the length of time, its likely that Ms K suffered a financial loss 
for.Once Ms K accepted the cash settlement offered by AXA on 24 January 2022, she said she 
agreed a contract to rent her flat out from 25 March 2022. Ms K has provided documents to 
support this statement. This shows Ms K managed to rent her property out after around two 
months after receiving her settlement from AXA. This allowed her time to have the repairs 
done, re-market her property and find a new tenant.
Therefore, I have considered what consequential loss Ms K suffered. The damage took 
place on 20 July 2021. I think AXA shouldve validated the claim and cash settled the claim 
in about six weeks (around the end of August 2021). I think this is a reasonable timeframe. If 
the two months turnaround is applied that Ms K managed on her flat, she couldve had 
someone renting her flat from end October 2021.
She rented her flat out from 25 March 2022, so I think Ms K has demonstrated its likely she 
wouldve lost rent for the period 1 November 2021 to 24 March 2022 (inclusive). Therefore, I 
intend to ask AXA to compensate Ms K for the loss of rental income during this period, once 
it has been able to fully validate Ms K did rent her property out from this date and at what 
rate the rent was set at. If Ms K didnt receive 100% of the rental income from 25 March, the 
amount of compensation should be reduced proportionately. As Ms K has been without this 
money, I intend for AXA to add 8% simple interest for each month she couldve received rent 
to the date she is reimbursed this money. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms K accepted by provisional decision. She said she was never offered a cash settlement of 
any amount.
AXA rejected my provisional decision and re-iterated points it had already made before. 
Although it did say its claim handler was wrong in saying the property was inhabitable. AXA 
said it thought it would be more appropriate to pay a contribution towards the loss of rent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Ms K for the consequential loss of rent for the period between 1 November 2021 
and 24 March 2022 (rent amount based on contracted amount and occupancy level 
from 25 March 2022)
Plus 8% simple interest* for each month she couldve received rent to the date she is 
reimbursed this money.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires AXA Insurance UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
AXA must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Ms K asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 Pete Averill
Ombudsman