DRN-3734365
The complaint
Mr G complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) mishandled 
applying an earlier decision by this service as to the removal of adverse information from 
his credit file in respect of an account for a hire agreement. He says that VWFS has 
unfairly continued to record negative information on his credit file causing him difficulty in 
obtaining other credit agreements.
What happened
In June 2021 I issued a final decision in respect of Mr Gs complaint that VWFS had 
mismanaged a hire agreement for a new car that had resulted in adverse information 
being recorded on his credit file.
I issued a decision that said although I appreciated VWFS, as a credit provider, was 
obliged to record accurate information as to the managing of an account by a consumer, it 
also needed to ensure the information was fair. And in the circumstances of Mr Gs 
complaint, I said I thought it would be fair for VWFS to remove all the adverse information 
it had recorded on Mr Gs credit file about this agreement. I thought the removal of the 
information was sufficient to fairly resolve Mr Gs complaint.
I also said that VWFS should come to an agreement with Mr G as to how the arrears 
that had built up on the agreement would be cleared.
In July 2021 following an income and expenditure review VWFS says that it was agreed 
Mr G would pay off the arrears of £4,667.46 by paying £2,000 in July followed by 
payments of
£150pm from August 2021 and one payment of £22.46 in July 2023. It says it also told Mr 
G that any late payments would be registered on his credit file.
VWFS says that the payment of £2,000 was made after the date agreed although Mr G 
had contacted it in advance that this would be the case. VWFS registered adverse 
information that this payment had been late, and Mr G complained to it that this had been 
unfair. 
VWFS removed the adverse information from Mr Gs credit file and accepted there had 
been some confusion over how Mr G was to make the monthly payments. It wrote-off the 
amount of £150 from Mr Gs account which was the equivalent to one months payment 
towards the arrears.
Mr G contacted this service to complain that VWFS had acted unreasonably in the way it 
had sought for the arrears to be cleared and had again recorded adverse information that 
the account was in arrears. He said this had resulted in his credit score declining and 
that he wasnt able to secure further credit agreements.
VWFS asked for clarification as to what adverse information should be removed from Mr 
Gs credit file about this account.
Our investigator said it would be fair for VWFS to remove all the adverse information 
about this account from Mr Gs credit file including the arrears that had accrued since 
the agreements inception.
VWFS accepted our investigators view but Mr G disagreed. He said he was unhappy 
at VWFSs service and that his credit score had declined causing him issues obtaining 
other credit agreements. He said the waiver of one months payment towards the 
arrears was insufficient in the circumstances.
Mr G then complained that each month VWFS was recording adverse information about 
this account to the credit reference agencies which he then had to ask it to remove. He 
said this impacted on his credit score for at least the part of each month which had 
implications for any other credit applications he may wish to make, in particular he was 
seeking a new mortgage.
VWFS said that its processes meant that because the account was in arrears, adverse 
information would automatically be reported to the credit reference agencies each month 
and that its only option was for it to manually amend Mr Gs credit file each month. It said 
it was taking this action, and that Mr G didnt need to contact it each month to request it to 
do so. It said there was no way for this to be prevented. VWFS also said that it had 
followed my original decision in respect of removing the adverse information but 
subsequently the information had then been recorded because the arrears hadnt been 
cleared.
VWFS reviewed Mr Gs complaint and offered in the circumstances to write-off the 
remaining arrears which at that point stood at £1,747.46 as this would stop the automatic 
recording of the adverse information.
Mr G was unhappy at this offer as a final resolution for his complaint. He said that from 
March 2021 VWFS had started the process of adverse information being reported. Mr G 
said that due to the actions of VWFS hed been unable to sell his property because he 
wasnt able to secure a new mortgage due to the information showing on his credit file.
As the parties werent able to reach an agreement the complaint had been passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
I appreciated Mr G felt that the service he had received from both VWFS and the 
dealership in setting up the hire agreement had been poor. But as I had set out in my 
original decision, VWFS wasnt responsible here for the actions of the dealership and I 
had thought many of the things that VWFS had done regarding the setting up of the hire 
agreement had been reasonable.
Id found that Mr G was liable for paying the arrears that had accrued on his account. I 
also said I thought it was reasonable to think that Mr G would have been aware that he 
would need to make these rental payments in a lump sum at some point. However, I 
also appreciated that Mr G might not be in a position where he could pay off the 
arrears in one go, so I had asked VWFS to work with Mr G to come to an agreement to 
clear them.
Mr G said this direction about reaching an agreement to pay off the arrears wasnt 
precise enough as it had allowed VWFS to act unreasonably. However, I disagreed as it 
wasnt my role to set up a payment plan, that was something that had to be agreed 
between the parties since there would be a number of factors that would need to be 
taken into account such as the arrears being paid off by the time the agreement ended. Id seen that a payment plan had been agreed between the parties in July 2021. Mr G 
said there had been issues over a direct debit for £2000 being requested when it 
shouldnt have been, but this was disputed by VWFS. However, VWFS had accepted 
there was some confusion and agreed to waive one months payment towards the 
arrears and removed the adverse information which had been recorded for July 2021. 
Id seen that our investigator confirmed that there was no adverse information showing 
at the time he looked at Mr Gs credit file in August 2021.
Mr Gs main complaint was that from July 2021 VWFS had reported adverse information 
each month on his credit file. VWFS said that this was automatic due to its processes as 
there were longstanding arrears on this account and the only option it had was to 
manually remove them. Mr G said this had played havoc with his credit score and 
prevented him from taking out other credit agreements. It therefore wasnt disputed that 
for at least part of each month from around July 2021 adverse information about this 
account was recorded on Mr Gs credit file.
I appreciated VWFS s business processes would have been frustrating for Mr G in 
regard to the automatic reporting of the arrears, but I had no evidence that what VWFS 
said was incorrect or misleading. So, I couldnt reasonably say VWFS wasnt acting in 
accordance with its set business processes when the arrears were reported on Mr Gs 
credit file. It hadnt actively chosen to record this information and directly disregarded my 
final decision. But I thought it would have been helpful if VWFS had raised that there 
would be an issue about the recording of arrears on Mr Gs credit file when his first 
complaint had been considered by this service. The investigator had also recommended 
the removal of the adverse information when looking at Mr Gs original complaint.
Id seen that VWFSs solution was to manually remove the adverse information from this 
account. Again, I hadnt seen any evidence that would suggest this hadnt been done. I 
appreciated Mr G felt he had to request VWFS to take this action each month but VWFS 
said that wasnt the case, and it was regularly doing so. I thought VWFS had looked for a 
solution to the problem that had arisen over the arrears.
Id also accepted that the reporting of the arrears each month would have had an impact 
on Mr Gs credit file. However, Id also had to take into account that this information was 
being removed each month. Id seen Mr G said that it was this account that impacted on 
his credit score and prevented him from being able to arrange a mortgage and renew his 
mobile phone contract. But there can be a number of reasons why a credit application is 
refused, and each credit provider will have their own method for calculating a credit score, 
they dont use the scores given by the credit reference company. So, I would have needed 
to see evidence that Mr Gs mortgage application and mobile phone contract had been 
refused solely because of the adverse information recorded by VWFS.
I thought here there had been a breakdown in the communication between Mr G and 
VWFS which had started after the difficulties with the hire agreement and appeared to 
have continued. I accepted the arrears on Mr Gs account had created a challenging 
situation for both VWFS and Mr G. But I also accepted VWFS had tried to act fairly about 
handling them, though this had still resulted in some unfairness to Mr G. However, I was 
also taking into account that I had found Mr G responsible for those arrears and it was fair 
that he cleared them. Accordingly, I thought VWFSs offer to write-off the arrears which 
amounted to £1,747.46 had been fair as a final resolution to this situation.
I appreciated Mr G felt that VWFS should have provided him with further compensation, 
but I was afraid I disagreed. As set out above, the difficulty had been due to VWFSs 
business processes and therefore that wasnt something within my remit to ask to be 
changed. I couldnt ask a business to change its set business practices. As Mr Gs account was in arrears, then VWFS hadnt been acting unreasonably by applying its processes to 
that account. In regard to the impact on Mr Gs credit file, I thought this had addressed 
fairly by VWFS writing-off the arrears and therefore ensuring the negative information was 
no longer reported to the credit reference agencies.
I also didnt think I had enough evidence to be able to reasonably say that the reporting 
of the arrears was the sole cause of Mr G being unable to obtain a mortgage. But even if 
it was, I thought VWFS had mitigated the impact by removing the adverse reports. I 
thought VWFS had attempted to be proactive in resolving the problem.
Id seen that VWFS had already written-off the arrears, although Mr G had been unhappy 
at this as he felt it acted without wating for his view about its offer. However, I was 
satisfied that VWFS hadnt taken this action with any view of pre-determining Mr Gs 
complaint.
So, for the reasons given above, I intended to partially uphold Mr Gs complaint in that I 
agreed VWFSs handling of the adverse information had resulted in unfairness to him. But 
I wasnt going to ask VWFS to do more than it had already done by writing-off the arrears 
on his account.
VWFS agreed with my decision. Mr G hasnt asked me to look at any parts of my 
provisional decision again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party asked me to review my decision, I have looked again at what 
happened and the conclusions I reached on the evidence that I had been was provided. I 
havent changed my mind.
While I agree that the process followed by VWFS to deal with the arrears on Mr Gs account 
led to unfairness for him, I think VWFS had acted to try to mitigate this. I also think that in the 
circumstances VWFSs offer of clearing the arrears from Mr Gs account, so that there was 
no longer any issue about adverse information being reported and then having to be 
removed, was a fair and reasonable settlement. As these arrears have now been removed 
from the account, Im not going to ask VWFS to do more.
For the reasons that are set out above, Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint. Im asking 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to write-off the arrears of £1,747.46 from Mr Gs 
account which I understand it already has done. Im not asking it to do more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman