DRN-3206395
The complaint
P complains that it had to wait an unreasonable amount of time on hold to speak with HSBC 
UK Bank Plc. P is represented by its owner who Ill refer to as Ms W.
 
What happened
Ms W runs P, a retail business. She had to call HSBC to provide further information to open 
an account. She says she was on hold for an hour and a half which cost her £45 in phone 
call costs from a pay as you go phone. And that P lost £400 worth of sales during this time. 
HSBC accepted that the wait was too long and paid P £175 compensation. Ms W didnt 
accept this and referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that HSBCs offer was fair. So, 
he didnt uphold the complaint. Ms W didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be looked 
at again. So, its been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms W wouldnt have wanted to wait for an hour and a half to speak to 
someone. Shes said this meant that Ps customers couldnt get though. And this may have 
potentially had an impact on P trading. But Ms W hasnt provided any evidence to show P 
did incur a loss other than an estimate of how many sales it couldve made during this time. 
And she hasnt provided further details to support the estimated loss of £400. 
Furthermore, it was Ms Ws choice to call HSBC during Ps trading hours. She couldve 
potentially visited a branch, which mayve been quicker, called at a more convenient time or 
used the web-based chat which wouldve kept the phone line free.
Ms W hasnt provided evidence of the £45 cost of the call made on a pay as you go phone. 
However, she has provided an itemised statement for another contract phone she has. Its 
unclear why, if the pay as you go phone was used to take orders, she didnt use an 
alternative phone to contact HSBC. Or switch to this phone when she realised she wouldnt 
be put through to someone immediately. I can also see that she had unlimited free minutes 
on this phone, which, had she used it, wouldve meant the call wouldnt cost her anything 
over and above her monthly tariff which shed already be paying.
Whilst the call wait time was longer than HSBC wouldve liked, I think that the £175 
compensation HSBC has paid in this regard is fair and in line with an award I might make in 
similar circumstances. Ms W has said she should be compensated for the distress caused to 
her. But she isnt HSBCs customer here  P is. And a business, as an entity, cant suffer 
distress. It can be inconvenienced though. But I think the compensation HSBC has already 
paid takes this into account. I dont have any evidence that P did miss out on sales because 
of what happened. And, as explained above, I think there were steps Ms W couldve taken to 
avoid being on the phone for so long at this time. Because of this, Im not going to ask HSBC 
to pay anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman