DRN-2765517
The complaint
Mr G complains that Ford Credit Europe (FCE) unfairly charged him for damage to his car at 
the end of his Hire Purchase Agreement. He would like the charges waived.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
Mr G has accepted some of the charges but still disputes charges for a scratch on 
one of the doors and for what has been described as rippled finish poor repair  on 
six areas of the car. Ive seen the video Mr G sent of the car pre collection. 
Unfortunately, the footage isnt close enough, so combined  with the reflection of 
daylight on the car , I cant clearly see if there is damage to the paintwork  or not.
I have looked at the photos provided int the vehicle condition report (VCR) - these 
can be enlarged . These do show a scratch on one of the doors and do seem to me 
to show a rippled effect on the paintwork on the six areas identified on the report.
FCE uses  British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines to 
assess damage which is a standard approach in the motor industry. As  scratches 
over 25mm with primer showing and rippled finish to paintwork both fall outside 
BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and tear I think it was reasonable for FCE to charge 
for these.
I do appreciate Mr G says he hasnt had the car repaired or resprayed  since he has 
had it. But without any evidence of the condition of the car at the point of sale I cant 
fairly  say the paintwork was on return  as it was at the point of sale
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
