DRN-3921805
The complaint
Mr L complains that Ageas declined a claim for a damaged sofa under his landlord 
household insurance.
Ageas used a third party company to handle Mr Ls claim and most of his correspondence 
has been with this company rather than directly with Ageas. For the avoidance of doubt, any 
reference to Ageas includes its agents, including the claims handling company. 
What happened
Mr L had a landlord insurance policy, underwritten by Ageas. In March 2021, he discovered 
damage to a sofa after tenants had left his rental property. Photos of the sofa appear to 
show it was in good condition at the start of the tenancy in August 2021 but was severely 
damaged when his tenants moved out in March 2022. Mr L understands his tenants two-
year-old child caused the damage.
Ageas appointed a third party company to inspect the damage. This companys report said, 
in summary:
There was significant damage to the sofa. The left arm was missing a good 
proportion of the faux leather surfacing; the right arm has been completely denuded 
of the surfacing and the loss extends right down the side of the sofa.
It estimated the sofa was 15-20 years old. In its opinion, the surfaces on the arms 
were cracking up through wear and tear and the surface then picked off.
It couldnt tell exactly when the damage occurred. It agreed that a photo of the sofa 
pre-tenancy appeared to show the left arm without damage, but the right arm was 
covered by a blanket so it couldnt tell whether it was already damaged.
The report concluded: In respect of whether this was accidental damage or 
malicious damage the answer is definitely malicious.
Ageas initially told Mr L it would accept the claim and offered him a cash settlement of 
£2,069 to replace the sofa. However, following discussions with Mr L and after reviewing its 
experts report, Ageas declined the claim. It told Mr L the damage was due to a combination 
of wear and tear and malicious damage. It said this wasnt covered by his policy. However, it 
apologised for poor service and confusion caused by making a settlement offer before 
declining the claim. It offered Mr L £300 for this.
Mr L didnt accept this and brought his complaint to us. He wants Ageas to cover the cost of 
replacing his sofa. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. He accepted 
Ageas experts conclusion that the damage was due to wear and tear, so he was satisfied 
Ageas decision to decline the claim was reasonable. He thought its offer of £300 was fair.
Mr L disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the policy wording. As Mr L says, hes protected against loss, destruction, 
damage or liability occurring at any time during the period of insurance. But, like all policies, 
it has exclusions and limitations to the cover provided. 
Ageas highlighted two policy terms in its response to Mr Ls complaint:
1. The definition of accidental damage (page 4): A sudden, unexpected, unusual, 
specific, violent, external event which is not due to negligence, misuse, mechanical 
or electrical fault or reckless activity, and occurs at a single identifiable time and 
place and independent of all other causes or events.
2. Exclusions to cover (page 11): Please note; this policy does not cover damage from 
wear, tear or deterioration, or theft and malicious damage by tenants or damage by 
any other persons lawfully on the premises.
I think its also worth highlighting page 12 of the policy booklet. Under What is not covered 
by accidental damage, the booklet lists both Scratching or denting and Rust, corrosion, 
wear, tear or depreciation, or other gradually operating cause.
Ageas explained that the damage to Mr Ls sofa wasnt caused by a single event. Instead, it 
said the faux leather material had been worn away then intentionally been 
peeled/damaged. In other words, Ageas says the damage was caused by a combination of 
wear and tear and malicious (rather than accidental) damage by Mr Ls tenants, so isnt 
covered by his policy.
Mr L has made several arguments why he believes this is wrong. Ive looked at everything 
hes said but I dont think I need to comment on each point to reach the right outcome. Ive 
focused instead on what I think are the key issues.
First, to make a successful insurance claim, our view is that a policyholder needs to prove 
their claim. That means they need to show an insured event (something that falls within the 
cover their policy provides) has taken place.
In this case, it isnt clear exactly who caused the damage, how it happened, or when it 
happened. Mr L believes his tenants two-year-old child did this. However, in a recent email 
to our investigator he acknowledged that the tenant didnt admit to the damage. In a call to 
Ageas claims handling company on 28 July 2022, he said the same thing. During that call, 
Mr L also said his tenants had caused other damage, for example to kitchen cupboards and 
worktops.
So Ive looked at the damage as having been caused either by the child or Mr Ls tenants, 
and whether his policy covers the damage assuming it was caused by one of them. 
My starting point is the report by Ageas inspector. The inspector concluded the damage had 
been caused by someone deliberately peeling off the faux leather surface that had 
previously become exposed by wear and tear. Ive reviewed the photos of the sofa, and I 
think this conclusion is reasonable.
If Mr Ls tenants caused the damage, its excluded from cover as per Ageas second point 
above (malicious damage by tenants). If their child caused it, I dont think it can be 
considered malicious damage. The policy doesnt define malicious, but the general meaning of a malicious action is that its characterised by some form of harmful intent. I dont 
think its reasonable to believe a two-year-old child might act with harmful intent.
So then the question is: is this covered by the accidental damage part of Mr Ls policy? And, 
on balance, I dont think it is. 
I understand that accidents can happen, particularly when young children are involved. But 
the photos show significant areas of damage to both arms of the sofa. As Ageas inspector 
noted, the right arm is almost completely stripped of material. I dont think its possible that 
this was done suddenly at a single identifiable time by a two-year-old child. I think Ageas 
experts report supports this view. In any event, scratching  whether by a child or an adult 
 is explicitly excluded from cover.
I dont think Mr L has shown that the damage was caused by an insured event. Im satisfied 
that this wasnt accidental damage and, if malicious, it was caused by his tenants. Either 
way, it isnt covered by Mr Ls policy. It follows that I think Ageas decision to decline the 
claim was reasonable.
Ageas has accepted that its service was poor. It offered Mr L £300 to apologise for this. In 
the circumstances, I think this offer is fair. I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
Mr L has indicated that hes prepared to take this matter to court. He doesnt have to accept 
my decision and remains free to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. I think Ageas offer of £300 
compensation is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman