DRN-1192013
 
complaint
Mrs C says Allianz Insurance plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a regular monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs C took PPI with a charge card in 1997. The PPI was sold to Mrs C by another firm but 
Allianz has accepted responsibility for this complaint about the mis-sale of PPI. So, I will 
refer to the seller as Allianz to make things easier. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld but Mrs C didnt agree. So, 
the complaint comes to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
To get the cover Mrs C had to tick a box for it. Had she not wanted the cover she could have 
left this unticked. And Mrs C has signed the application form to show she agreed with its 
contents. So, on balance I think that Mrs C chose to take the policy and did so knowing she 
had a choice about it, even if she cant remember that now, many years later. 
Mrs C and Allianz agree that the sale was made with no advice given to Mrs C. So, it seems 
most likely that Allianz didnt recommend that Mrs C take the PPI, so it didnt have to check if 
it was right for her. Instead Allianz had to provide information that was clear and not 
misleading, so that Mrs C could decide about the policy for herself. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been - including the information about the cost of the policy. But based on what I know 
about Mrs Cs circumstances, I dont think better information would have stopped her from 
buying it.
I say this because Mrs C was eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Mrs C at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
And I think Mrs C could have found the policy useful. I say this because whilst Mrs Cs initial 
sick pay was good, it would have dropped significantly after three months. The policy could 
have paid 15% of the balance until the claim stopped or the balance was repaid, whichever 
occurred first, and this would have been in addition to Mrs Cs sick pay. And the PPI would also have provided cover if Mrs C lost her job. So, having considered all of this, I think the 
policy could have been useful to her. 
So, I dont think that Mrs C lost out as a result of anything Allianz might have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Allianz Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman