DRN-3874629
Complaint
Mr N has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr N bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2018. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Omni, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr N alleges that the installer 
misled him into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ns complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale made it clear that the benefits of the solar panel system 
would not cover the cost and therefore the system would not be self-funding in the way Mr N 
says he was led to believe. So the investigator did not think a misrepresentation had taken 
place.
Mr N disagreed. He reiterated (through his representatives) that he was verbally told the 
benefits provided by the system would cover his monthly finance payments and that the 
investigator relied too heavily on the documentation. He said he was assured he would be 
able to repay the loan in 5 years. He added that he should not be expected to carry at 
mental mathematics to ascertain that what he was being told verbally was not true. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr N paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr N could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr N and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Omni.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the representative relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr N was provided with the sales documents and that he wouldve seen 
these at the time of sale, as he has signed the documents. 
The estimated returns section of the sales document submitted by Omni shows the supplier 
set out that the annual benefit he could expect to receive form the system was £490.92. The 
above figure is not hidden away in small print, but is, in my view clearly visible. And Mr N has 
signed directly next to this section  so, I think he wouldve, at the very least, seen this when 
he signed the document.
In the section setting out the costs of the system, the sales document sets out that the cost 
of the system is £10,495, that Mr N was to pay in deposit in cash of £2,000 and that he 
would use finance to cover the remaining balance of £8,495. 
Directly beneath this, it sets out that Mr N is expected to make 120 payments of around 
£109.8x. Part of the figure is not visible in the copy of the sales document retained  but it 
does look like the estimated monthly loan payments and the term of the loan was set out 
within the sales documents. 
Mr N signed immediately below this section on the page setting out the costs of the loan. So 
again I think its likely he would have seen this. 
On the same day, Mr N went on to sign his credit agreement agreeing to take out a 10-year 
loan to cover the remaining balance. The credit agreement again sets out the total cost of 
system which was, £10,495, that the amount being borrowed was £8,495, the term of loan 
120 months (i.e. 10 years), and the monthly payment amount which was £109.81. 
I think its apparent that to repay a loan for £8,495 over 10 years, Mr N would need at least 
£849.50 per year to cover the cost of the system  and this is without any finance charges. 
This is significantly more than the annual benefit set out by the supplier. His monthly 
payments were also £109.81, and I think its clear that 12 payments of £109.81 is 
significantly more than £490.91 (the annual estimated benefit).
 
I think the documents likely reflect the nature of the discussions Mr N had with the supplier at 
the time of sale. The sales contract is the supplier own document, and this sets out the 
annual benefits, the full cost of the system and the estimated costs associated with the 
finance. Mr N has signed this document several times and on the same pages as the 
information Ive set out above is on. 
To me, its clear that the system was not presented as immediately self-funding on the 
documents. I understand Mr Ns representative has pointed out that Mr N should not be 
expected to carry out calculations to check that what he was being told was incorrect. 
However, I think its apparent that 12 payments of around £100  is far more than £490.92  
without doing any calculations. 
Mr N was making a significant purchase and agreed to take out finance for 10 years for a 
significant some. I dont think its likely that he agreed to this without discussing the basics of 
the system such as the cost of the system, the term of the loan and the monthly payments. 
And I also think its clear that he was given estimates in terms of what the system was going 
to produce. Mr N has added that the supplier spent several hours with him during the sale  
so Im not satisfied that these figures were not discussed or that he wasnt given this 
information. 
As Ive said above, I think these figures were discussed with Mr N and if he had been told 
something different at the time of sale, on being asked to sign these documents, I would 
have expected him to question what hed been told and Ive seen no evidence that he did  
suggesting they most likely did not contradict his understanding at the time. So I think its 
more likely that it was made clear to him that the benefits the system was going to produce 
would not be sufficient to cover the full cost of the system. And given the significant shortfall 
between the benefits and costs, I also dont think its likely he was advised the benefits 
would enable him to repay the loan within 5 years. 
So, Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Omni has confirmed that it 
paid no commission to the supplier and considering that I havent found any 
misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship 
under section 140.
Summary 
Overall, while Ive carefully considered Mr Ns testimony, I find the documents from the time 
of sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of 
sale. So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Im, therefore, satisfied that Omni did not act unreasonably or unfairly by declining this claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman