DRN-2821245
The complaint
Mr B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a claim for storm 
damage on his home insurance policy. RSA said the weather reports didnt show storm 
conditions in the area at that time.
What happened
Mr B said he noticed water coming into his property through a dormer roof. It wasnt a room 
he used very often. But as soon as he became aware of the leak he contacted his insurer. 
RSA arranged for a surveyor to inspect the leak, but Mr B was told his home insurance 
policy wouldnt cover the damage. RSA said itd been caused by wear and tear rather than 
storm damage. 
Mr B said he was given three different explanations of storm damage by RSAs 
representatives. And it wasnt clear from his policy documentation where to look for more 
information. Mr B said the rainfall that week had been heavy and persistent. So he feels RSA 
should reconsider his claim for storm damage.
RSA explained the insurance industry accepted claims for storm damage when certain levels 
of wind or rainfall were met. But in the period leading up to the damage there was no record 
of those conditions. The inspection of the damaged area showed natural wear and tear and 
a breakdown of materials. And there were several dislodged slates that wouldve allowed 
water to get into the property over a period of time. 
RSA said Mr Bs home insurance policy didnt provide cover for anything that happened over 
a period of time, wear and tear or maintenance-related issues. So it wasnt able to provide 
any assistance towards the repair costs on this occasion.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with RSAs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. 
Our investigator explained the three questions our service asks when considering complaints 
about storm damage. And he checked the weather reports for Mr Bs area for the month or 
so before the damage was noticed. But our investigator wasnt able to identify any weather 
that could be considered as a storm.
Our investigator looked at the report provided by RSAs surveyor. And he could see the 
cause of the damage was wear and tear. Unfortunately that was excluded by the terms and 
conditions of Mr Bs home insurance policy. So he couldnt ask RSA to pay for the claim.
Mr B didnt agree. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Hed been given three 
different explanations of what constituted storm damage. So how could RSA expect its 
policyholders to understand what it provided cover for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration. He accepts some wear and tear may not have helped 
the situation. But he feels the rainfall was strong enough to have aggravated the issue. Mr B 
feels RSA should consider the damage as storm damage. So Ive looked carefully at 
everything thats happened to see if RSA has done anything wrong. And if so what it needs 
to do to put things right.
The first thing I look at in this type of complaint is whether or not there was a storm at the 
relevant time. This is important because if there was no storm there cant have been any 
damage caused by a storm.
The second question I look at if Im satisfied theres been a storm is whether the damage to 
the property is consistent with what Id expect a storm to cause. 
The third question  and often the most contentious  is whether the damage was caused by 
a storm or something else. Insurers often appoint surveyors experienced in this type of work 
to look at the damage and thats what RSA did. I think its a fair thing to do and I think its 
reasonable for RSA to rely on the surveyors report when deciding whether to meet the 
claim.
Ive looked at the weather reports for Mr Bs area in the period leading up to the discovery of 
the damage. Although there is a record of periodic rainfall and gusts of wind they didnt 
reach the levels our service would consider a storm. I appreciate Mr B says thered been 
persistent heavy rain. But Id expect a well-maintained property to be able to withstand all 
but the most severe weather. And theres no evidence to suggest the weather conditions 
during that period could be considered severe enough to cause storm damage. 
I realise Mr B was given differing explanations of storm damage by RSA. And the policy 
documentation doesnt clearly state what levels of wind or rainfall would constitute a storm. 
But I wouldnt necessarily expect RSA to provide definitions for every peril covered by the 
policy. And RSA confirmed to Mr B the levels of wind and rain it considers to be a storm. 
These are in line with industry standards and the levels our service would normally consider 
to be storm conditions.
Having considered the weather reports I cant say RSA acted unfairly in declining a claim for 
storm damage. There isnt the evidence to suggest a storm took place in the weeks before 
Mr B noticed the leak. 
Even if a storm had been recorded around the time of the damage, the surveyors report 
states the main cause of the damage was gradual wear and tear  not the weather. And 
Mr Bs home insurance policy specifically excludes cover for damage caused by wear and 
tear, maintenance or anything that happens gradually. 
Based on the information provided I think the damage occurred over a period of time. I dont 
think the damage was caused by a one-off storm event.
I realise Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But in the circumstances, I think it was 
reasonable for RSA to say the damage had been caused gradually rather than suddenly by 
the recent weather conditions. Based on what Ive seen I think it was fair for RSA to decline 
the claim. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman