DRN-3171397
The complaint
The estate of Miss M complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
unfairly declined a claim made under Miss Ms life protection policy. The estate of Miss M is 
represented by executor Mr M, who is also Miss Ms son. 
What happened
Miss M bought an L&G life protection policy in March 2016, through a financial adviser. The 
policy was for a term of 33 years and would pay a lump sum if Miss M passed away. 
Sadly, Miss M passed away in November 2019. The February 2020 post-mortem 
examination report concluded Miss Ms cause of death was 1a: Complications of chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease 2: Fatty degeneration of the liver. Mr M made a claim under 
the policy, communicating with L&G through his solicitor. 
L&G began assessing the claim and asked why Miss Ms policy application might not have 
accurately disclosed bronchitis; bipolar disorder with attempts to self-harm and regular 
psychiatry review; peptic ulcer, hiatus hernia and fatty liver; and referral for a scan and 
neurological assessment for headaches, unsteadiness and falls. Mr Ms solicitor said 
Miss Ms application answers werent inaccurate. She disclosed asthma - a lung condition 
similar to bronchitis that caused Miss M breathing problems. And she disclosed depression - 
her formal diagnosis was bipolar disorder, previously known as manic depression and 
unconnected to Miss Ms cause of death.  Mr Ms solicitor said Miss Ms other conditions 
were also unconnected to her cause of death. And suggested L&G should have investigated 
Miss Ms application further at that time, given what she did disclose. 
After assessing the claim, L&G thought Miss M had made a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation when she applied for the policy. It said shed not disclosed various health 
issues, including recurrent bronchitis and bipolar disorder, that shed tried to harm herself 
and been treated by psychiatric services. L&G said it wouldnt have offered Miss M the policy 
if it had known her actual health history. L&G declined the claim and avoided the policy 
(cancelled it as if it had never existed), but refunded the premiums Miss M had paid. 
Unhappy, Mr M contacted our service and complained to L&G. He thought L&G was unfair to 
say Miss M hadnt disclosed bronchitis and bipolar disorder in her application, because shed 
disclosed asthma and depression, which were just different names for them. Mr M 
suggested it was irrelevant Miss M hadnt disclosed everything in her application, as these 
conditions werent related to her cause of death. Mr M said Miss M hadnt been untruthful, 
had paid the premiums, and had consented to L&G contacting her GP. 
L&G said it had correctly declined the claim and didnt change its position. Mr M remained 
unhappy and asked our service to investigate. After looking into the complaint, our 
investigator thought L&G had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, based on the 
medical evidence hed seen.
Mr M disagreed, saying depression was the same as bipolar disorder and Miss M always 
said she had depression. He said Miss M didnt intend to mislead in her application and L&G 
should have asked for a medical report. Miss M always met her psychiatric nurse for coffee 
and her self-harm was eleven years before the application, so she would have thought she 
didnt need to mention it. Mr M didnt understand why Miss M had been given statements of 
Fitness for Work regarding bipolar disorder in 2012 and 2013, as shed stopped working in 
around 2006. Mr M said Miss M died of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease so everything 
else was irrelevant.
 
As Mr M disagreed with our investigator, this complaint was passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying how sorry I am to hear about Miss M passing away. I realise this 
complaint has been made under very upsetting and difficult circumstances for Mr M and Id 
like to offer him my condolences. However, Im not upholding this complaint. I realise this 
isnt the answer Mr M hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons. 
L&G thinks Miss M made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation in her policy application. 
Ive thought about whether this was a fair and reasonable conclusion for it to reach. The 
relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ive considered the questions L&G asked Miss M in the policy application. At the start of 
each section of health questions, L&G said When answering the following questions, if 
you're unsure whether to tell us about a medical condition, please tell us anyway.
Ive set out the application questions I see to be relevant here, along with the answers 
Miss M gave in bold. L&G asked Apart from anything you've already told us about in this 
application, during the last 2 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health 
professional for: any condition affecting your lungs or breathing, for example asthma, 
emphysema, sleep apnoea, sarcoidosis? Please ignore hay fever.
Yes
- Please select from this list. Only select other when you cannot find a match. 
Asthma
- How long ago did you last have symptoms of asthma? Symptoms may include 
wheezing, shortness of breath or tightness in your chest. 
4 years 0 months
- Have you another condition or illness to tell us about under this heading? 
NoIm satisfied this question was clear. And Im satisfied Miss M didnt take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when answering it. Miss Ms medical records show she was 
diagnosed with asthma in 2005, and she did disclose asthma in her policy application. 
However, Miss Ms medical records show she also had other lung and breathing issues in 
the two years before she applied for the policy. She saw her GP on 8 February 2016 for 
recurrent wheezy bronchitis. Mr M suggests asthma and bronchitis are the same condition. 
That may be debatable in this particular case. But even if I accept they are the same 
condition, Miss M went on to say she last had symptoms four years ago. And her medical 
records show this isnt the case because, as I say, Miss M consulted her GP about what was 
by then a recurrent lung condition about six weeks before she applied for the policy. 
L&G then asked Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, during 
the last 2 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for: anxiety, 
depression or stress that's required treatment or counselling, or chronic fatigue syndrome?
Yes
- Please select from this list.
Depression
- Have you ever been admitted to hospital as an inpatient for one night or more for this 
condition?
No
- Have you ever been treated by a psychiatrist or psychiatric nurse?
No
- Have you ever tried to harm yourself in any way?
No
- Do you still have symptoms of this condition?
No
- Are you currently taking medication for this condition, receiving counselling or 
cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT)? CBT is a combination of cognitive therapy that 
helps with thinking processes such as unwanted thoughts, attitudes and beliefs (called 
cognitive processes), and behavioural therapy that focuses on behaviour in response 
to those thoughts.
Yes
- Have you claimed any government benefits, allowance or credits due to disability or 
illness, or retired early due to this condition?
No
- In total, how much time off your normal work or daily activities have you had for this 
condition in the last 12 months?
0 weeks 0 days
- Have you another condition or illness to tell us about under this heading?
No
Im satisfied these questions were also clear. And Im satisfied Miss M didnt take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when she answered them. Mr M and his solicitors 
argue that when Miss M answered this question with depression, what shed meant was 
manic depression or bipolar disorder. But Miss Ms condition is called bipolar disorder throughout the medical records Ive been 
provided with. This includes two statements of Fitness for Work Miss Ms GP completed in 
2012 and 2013. So on the balance of probabilities, I think its more likely than not thats how 
this condition would have been referred to in conversations between Miss M and medical 
professionals. I understand Mr M has questioned why Fitness for Work statements were 
completed for Miss M given she wasnt working, but I note the statements both say they are 
For social security or Statutory Sick Pay. So they are not only for people in work.
If I accept Miss Ms answer of depression in fact meant bipolar disorder, the medical 
records provided to me show Miss Ms answers to the follow up questions werent correct. 
They show Miss M was diagnosed with bipolar disorder in 2001, and that in 2001 and in 
2004 she tried to harm herself. I know Mr M says these occasions happened many years 
before the policy application, so Miss M would have thought she didnt need to disclose 
them. But the question asks if she had ever tried to harm herself. And at various points, the 
application form says that if Miss M was unsure whether to tell L&G about a medical 
condition, she should tell it anyway. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that she did. 
The medical records Ive been provided with show Miss M was receiving psychiatric care for 
her bipolar disorder, having regular reviews with a consultant psychiatrist and a community 
psychiatric nurse from 2011 up to February 2016. She was taking a range of medication for 
her bipolar disorder during this time, prescribed by her consultant psychiatrist. And in several 
review meetings with her consultant psychiatrist in 2015 it was noted shed had thoughts of 
self-harm, though with no plans to act on this. 
I note that elsewhere the policy application also asked Have you ever: been admitted 
overnight to hospital or referred to a psychiatrist for mental illness, anorexia or bulimia? 
Miss M answered No. And as I say, Miss Ms medical records show she had been referred 
to a psychiatrist for a mental illness in the form of bipolar disorder. Therefore, Miss M 
answered that question incorrectly too. Had she answered yes, L&G has shown me that 
bipolar disorder was one of the mental health conditions Miss M could have selected. 
Given this, Im satisfied Miss M didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she completed her policy application. I can see L&G sent Miss M a copy of her 
application answers with a checking your details form. The form said If the answers on your 
application are not correct, or are incomplete, or are out of date it may mean that a claim will 
be declined and the policy or policies cancelled. Miss M ticked a box to say her application 
details were correct and didnt give any details of any changes that needed to be made. 
Miss M then signed the declaration to say her application answers were correct. 
Im satisfied this misrepresentation made a difference. L&G has provided its underwriting 
guidance relating to bronchitis, bipolar disorder and self-harm. It has also provided 
comments from its underwriter. Having considered these, Im satisfied L&G would have 
postponed offering Miss M a policy for six months from her application in March 2016, to be 
sure Miss Ms bipolar disorder had settled down for at least a year since her thoughts of self-
harm in 2015. And L&G would then have asked for more information about her current lung 
function, and depending on what this showed, would have either charged her higher 
premiums or not offered her cover. So Im satisfied this was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
L&G has categorised the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. The relevant guidance 
defines deliberate or reckless misrepresentation as being where the customer knew, or must 
have known, that the information they gave was both incorrect and relevant to the insurer, or 
that the customer acted without any care as to whether it was either correct or relevant to the 
insurer. Ive considered whether L&G was fair to categorise Miss Ms misrepresentation this 
way. I think it was, and Ill explain why.Sadly, Miss M cant tell us why she answered the application questions as she did. And I 
acknowledge Mr M says Miss M would have answered them truthfully. But as Ive set out 
above, Miss Ms medical records show shed been receiving long standing and ongoing 
treatment from a consultant psychiatrist and a psychiatric nurse, in the form of meetings and 
medication. Including in the weeks before she applied for the policy. And in the weeks before 
applying for the policy, Miss M also consulted her GP about her recurrent lung condition. 
Given this, I think its unlikely Miss M would simply have forgotten about these conditions or 
thought they werent relevant to the clear questions L&G asked in the application. 
Mr M has suggested its irrelevant Miss M didnt disclose everything in her application, as 
these conditions werent related to her cause of death. But its not relevant here whether the 
undisclosed conditions were related to Miss Ms cause of death. Whats relevant is whether, 
if Miss M had correctly answered all questions when the policy was being taken out in 2016, 
L&G would have offered her a policy on different terms or not at all at that time. L&G is 
putting Miss Ms estate in the position it should have been in if Miss M had correctly 
answered all the policy application questions. 
I know Mr Ms solicitors have suggested L&G should have investigated Miss Ms application 
further at that time, given what she did disclose. But Miss Ms incorrect answers minimised 
the conditions she told L&G about in her application. And L&G was entitled to rely on the 
application answers Miss M gave, which she later confirmed were correct  L&G wasnt 
obliged to obtain further information from Miss Ms doctors to verify this. 
So Im satisfied it was reasonable for L&G to conclude Miss M made a qualifying 
misrepresentation when she applied for the policy. Im also satisfied it was reasonable for 
L&G to conclude this was a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. In these 
circumstances, CIDRA says L&G is entitled to decline the claim, avoid the policy and keep 
the premiums Miss M paid. Therefore, Im satisfied L&G has acted fairly here. I note L&G 
has chosen to refund the premiums Miss M paid, which is something L&G can itself choose 
to do and I dont think thats unfair in this case. For these reasons, Im not asking L&G to do 
anything further about this claim or policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
M to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman