DRN-2679363
The complaint
Miss F complains that FCL Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Smart-Pig.com, lent to her
irresponsibly. She describes that Smart Pig put her in financial strain, left me in a very
stressful position which left me in loan loop forcing me back to use their services. 
Miss F is represented by a third party. 
What happened
The Smart Pig loans were aimed at the Student market. Its credit agreements reflect this. 
And during the application process Smart Pig has explained that it needed to see 
confirmation of the Student Loan funding dates and amounts before approving a loan. The 
loans usually were for between 30 to 120 days and were meant to be paid off in one lump 
sum and often on or before the next Student Loan credit arrived. A loan could be repaid 
early. 
Clause 7 gives the customer an option to extend: If, as part of your application, you specify 
to repay on a date that is BEFORE the next student loan date you entered on your 
application, you will have the option under the My Account page to extend your loan up to 
the day of your next student loan. You may choose to do this if you know that funds will not 
be available on the day you specified for repayment.
Using information from Smart Pigs final response letter to Miss F, here is a brief loan table.
Loan Approved Amounts Scheduled repayment dates
1 3 March
2016£350  two credits of £200 on 3 
March and £150 on 5 March 
201618 April 2016 and repaid that 
date
2 18 April 2016 £150 29 April 2016 and repaid that 
date
3 3 May 2016 £350  four credits: £150 on 3 
May, £100 on 5 May, £50 on 9 
May & £50 11 May 201619 September 2016 and repaid 
two days later on
21 September 2016
The loans were credited to Ms F's bank account in separate amounts. Smart Pig explained
that when it issues any loans it allows the customer to have an upper credit limit. It 
explained:
 
This is set at the time of the original application and is based on the income of the 
customer vs their credit commitments which they have. The most anyone can borrow 
at any one time from us is £350. 
But the agreements are individual and were worded to include all top-ups to date and
each agreement kept the original repayment date. We have been provided with seven
agreements for the three loans.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Smart Pig should put things
right for Miss L for each loan. The reason was because the declared expenditure when
looked at alongside Miss Fs declared income from her Student Loans led our adjudicator to
think that Miss F was not able to afford these loans and Smart Pig ought to have known this.
Smart Pig disagreed.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 2 March 2021 with a reply date of 16 March 2021. The provisional 
findings of that decision are set out in the next section in smaller print size to differentiate 
from my final decision findings. .
Both parties have responded early with their own points, and so I have reviewed the 
complaint and am now ready to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the loans were offered. Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take
proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks,
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things,
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid.
My provisional findings
Income
Smart Pig and Miss F have provided detailed information about the Student Loan income plus 
additional scholarship money and bursary funds she received. Inevitably the nature of the customer 
base Smart Pig has (students) means that these funds usually are received at the beginning of a 
University term or semester. For Miss F I have created a brief summary to show the income she 
received. Student Loans are repaid in a very particular way over the course of a persons future 
working life and attract interest. I do not deal with that here as detailed legislation covers this and is 
not relevant for this complaint. Bursary and scholarship money usually are not repayable. The sums 
paid to the University as teaching fees are not included here.
Bursary/scholarship Student support 
LoanSupplementary grant Total income for the 
period January to June 
2016
£495 paid
5 February 2016£1,335 paid
4 January 2016£1,129 paid
4 January 2016£2,959
£510 due
29 April 2016£1,375 paid 18 April 
2016£1,129 paid 18 April 
2016£3,014
Taking the period January to June 2016 (two terms) I think that come was £5,973. This divided by six 
months = around £995 each month.
I think that Miss Fs term ended in June 2016 as I have seen an entry on her bank statements that 
she received Universal Credit of £120 in June 2016. So, this leads me to think that her circumstances 
had changed as the term had ended.expenditure
Smart Pig has given us the expenditure figures provided by Miss F upon application. It seems that 
only one set of these figures was gathered and that date coincided with the first loan application in 
March 2016. I am assuming that these are monthly figures.
Affordability
Date Rent Utilities Transport Food Creditors Other
03/03/2016
12:32301-400 0-150 0-100 0-150 0-100 0-100
Smart Pig has explained in the past that a range is offered for the applicant to choose for some 
categories. Here, for Miss F, the figure for her rent was in the £301 to £400 range. It seems more 
appropriate for us to use the higher figure when assessing a complaint about irresponsible lending. If 
the loan is affordable using the higher figure, but the rent actual cost was less, then a small margin 
built into any loan affordability assessment can only be to the Smart Pig customers advantage. So, 
we use the higher figures in the declared range when looking at complaints and how the loans were 
assessed at the point of sale. And I have done that here for Miss Fs complaint.
I had asked Smart Pig for additional information surrounding its assessment of her expenditure 
amounts declared on her application form. It explained that it did not make any additional enquiries or 
speak to Miss F: the application was on-line, but it knew the Hall of Residence address in the 
University town provided by Miss F and had checked that all bills were included in the rent paid for it. 
So Smart Pig says that the sum declared by Miss F for her utilities ought to be discounted. And for 
completeness I asked Miss F about her bills and she confirmed that the utilities were included in her 
Hall of Residence cost. So, although its a little puzzling why Miss F would have declared these extra 
utility costs and expenses when applying for the loan, I have decided to reduce the declared 
expenditure by £150.
Credit commitments
Miss Fs representative has said that We believe from an audit upon the Clients credit report that had 
an assessment been carried out, the borrowing nor further advances would not have been provided to 
our client.
Smart Pig has provided us with the credit search results it carried out on 3 March 2016 for Loan 1 and 
3 May 2016 for Loan 3. These show nothing of any concern and hardly any credit history at all. So, 
I do not accept Miss Fs representatives submission. And I do not accept that Miss F was pushed into 
a loan loop because of Smart Pigs approval of the loans.
And although Miss F had declared additional credit commitment of £100 a month I have to consider 
that Smart Pig had information from its own checks that Miss Fs credit situation was better than this. 
She had no credit agreements other than two current accounts with banks in March 2016. And in 
May 2016 it was the same, save for the addition of the Smart Pig loans.
I had already received and reviewed Miss Fs bank statements for the periods around the time Miss F 
was applying for these loans. There are some facts gleaned from her bank statements which I need 
not refer to here.
Ive had to think about all these factors carefully. I have considered the submissions by Smart Pig on 
Miss Fs declared expenditure and I think that in these circumstances for Miss Fs complaint, they are 
sound. So, I have made allowances accordingly.
Loan 1
As Miss F was a new customer applying to Smart Pig for the first time, I would have expected Smart 
Pig to know Miss Fs income and her expenditure which it did. It seems to have clarified some details 
surrounding Miss Fs expenditure and her credit situation using its own initiative. I think that her income was about £995 a month when taken over the period for January to June 2016. Her regular 
monthly expenditure that Smart Pig knew about was £400 rent (taking the higher range figure), £150 
food, £100 travel and she had no credit commitments other than two current accounts with banks. 
Smart Pig had checked her credit situation.
 
The other I do not know to what that refers and so I have chosen not to add it in. And even if I did 
add that £100 into the calculations my provisional decision outcome would be the same.
Using these figures, reduced to include Smart Pigs submissions about Miss Fs expenditure sums, 
the initial agreement for £200, where the total to be paid at the end of the 46 day (original term) period 
was £273.60 may have been just affordable.
But Smart Pig has told me: When we issue any loans we allow the customer to have an upper credit 
limit. This is set at the time of the original application
So, the £350 credit limit or ceiling for her first loan was likely unaffordable as it was a figure of £473.60 
due to be repaid at the end of the 46 day (original term) period. I am planning to uphold Miss Fs 
complaint about Loan 1.
Loan 2
I am aware that Miss F applied for Loan 2 on the day that she repaid Loan 1. It was a £150 loan 
repayable as £163 after 11 days. So, I would have expected Smart Pig to have known Miss Fs 
income and expenditure and it did. For the same reasons as explained above, I have used the same 
figures as I have used for Loan 1. And I think that Loan 2 was likely affordable. I plan not to uphold 
Miss Fs complaint about Loan 2.
Loan 3
Knowing Smart Pigs explanations about the customer credit limit or ceiling it gave, then the £350 
(drawn down as an initial loan plus three top-ups) was due to be £525 to be paid in September 2016. 
The agreement period was for a longer time of 139 days (about four and a half months) and towards 
the end of the academic year. No fresh expenditure figures were given for the May 2016 application 
but its highly likely that between June and September 2016 Miss Fs expenditure would have been 
very different. She would not have had rent to pay to her Hall of Residence and as I have said earlier, 
her credit search results by Smart Pig show a light commitment  just two bank accounts and the 
earlier Smart Pig loans which had been paid.
The nature of these loans is that they are one lump sum due at the end of the term with the option to 
repay early. I think that there was an expectation that Miss F would have had to budget over the 139 
days to be able to repay the £525.
However, the income Smart Pig knew about, and on which it would have based its affordability 
assessment, would have ceased in June 2016 (as I have outlined above  apportioning her student 
income across the January to June 2016 period gave a figure of around £995 a month). But then so 
would large parts of her expenditure. So, this has left me to question whether Miss F was going to be 
able to budget to be able to repay the £525 by September 2016.
As I said earlier, I have reviewed the bank statements Miss F has sent to us, and although I am aware 
that Smart Pig would not have known of her part time job during the summer months, I cannot ignore 
the fact that she earned around £3,663 in the period leading up to September 2016. And in my 
application of being fair and reasonable I cannot ignore that.
So, in these circumstances surrounding Miss Fs complaint, I do not think it fair to uphold the Loan 3 
part of her complaint when I can see that in September 2016 she would have had the money to repay 
it, and it does not seem fair to provisionally decide that Smart Pig lent to her irresponsibly. I am 
planning not to uphold Loan 3.
What each party has said following the provisional decision Smart Pig has accepted my provisional findings and is content to pay the redress on Loan 1. 
Miss F does not agree. She would like all three loans to be upheld. She has made remarks 
and has explained about some emotional stress but has not sent to us any further evidence. 
Miss F has mentioned that she felt coerced but theres no evidence for that. 
Miss F says she was not able to repay Loan 1 and so ought not to have been approved for 
Loan 2 or 3. But I have explained all my provisional conclusions in detail in my provisional 
decision and having reviewed them, they remain the same. 
I carefully considered all the bank statements I had been given, and particularly for the 
period around April 2016. And I remain of the view that Miss F was likely able to afford 
Loan 2. I repeat here my provisional findings.
And for Loan 3, I repeat here my provisional findings. Miss F has not provided anything to 
lead me to alter my provisional conclusions in relation to Loan 3. And in fairness to both 
parties, I think it is likely Miss F was able to budget over four and a half months to repay the 
sum for Loan 3. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Smart Pig should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent at Loan 1. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Miss F may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss F in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Smart Pigs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
Smart Pig ought to do as follows:
refund all interest and charges Miss F paid on Loan 1;
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about Loan 1 from Miss Fs credit file;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Smart Pig to take off tax from this interest. It must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Fs complaint in part and I plan to direct that FCL 
Consumer Finance Ltd, trading as Smart-Pig.com, does as I have said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman