DRN-4021036
The complaint
Mrs K complains about poor service when she took mortgage advice from Regents Court 
Financial. She asks that it refunds its £600 fee.
What happened
Mrs K wanted to re-mortgage and take out additional borrowing of about £20,000. She says 
Regents Court should have told her this wasnt possible. She asks that it refunds its fee. 
Mrs K said £600 is a lot of money for her and she found the complaint process stressful and 
worrying.
Our investigator said Regents Court should only have charged Mrs K half of its fee, as set 
out in the fee agreement Mrs K signed. Our investigator said Regents Court should pay 
Mrs K £100 for the upset caused.
Regents Court didnt agree. It said the fee was clearly explained and Mrs K agreed to pay 
the whole amount. Regents Court said it had to undertake additional work because Mrs K 
gave it incorrect information and delayed sending documents. It said it took steps to ensure 
Mrs Ks needs were understood when Mrs K changed her mind about how she wanted to 
proceed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K contacted Regents Court in late 2021. She wanted to re-mortgage and raise some 
additional borrowing to help a family member. 
Regents Court says Mrs K didnt provide the information it needed to research mortgages 
until early 2022. It said Mrs Ks options were limited due to her adverse credit history  
something she didnt tell it about initially. It said it had to chase her for documents to support 
the mortgage application process and for its own compliance process in February and March 
2022. 
A decision in principle (also known as an agreement in principle or AIP) was issued in mid-
March 2022. Regents Court asked Mrs K if she wanted to proceed with a mortgage 
application and asked her to provide updated payslips. Regents Courts fee was paid at this 
point.
Mrs K then said shed changed her mind. Regents Court was uncertain what Mrs K wanted 
to do and arranged a meeting. It says at the end of this meeting it understood what Mrs K 
wanted and she was happy for it to advise her on her new requirements, which were to take 
out a let to buy mortgage on her property and a residential mortgage for a second property.
In April 2022 Mrs K contacted Regents Court saying she didnt want it to continue with her 
mortgage application and asked for her fee to be returned. Mrs K says she didnt agree to 
pay the fee and didnt receive an AIP. She said Regents Court took the fee from her account 
in March 2022 without her agreement. She was unhappy that Regents Court had applied to 
a lender she hadnt heard of.
Prior to 2022, Regents Courts terms of business were that its fee was due 50% on 
completion of an AIP and 50% on issue of a mortgage offer.
Regents Court changed its terms of business at the beginning of 2022 so that the whole fee 
was due on application. Regents Court said it gave Mrs K the option of paying the fee in two 
parts, but she said she was happy to pay all of the fee under the new terms and conditions. 
It said it undertook work for Mrs K and she isnt entitled to ask for the fee to be refunded.
I understand the points made by Regents Court. It did undertake work for Mrs K. The work 
needed was increased due to delays in Mrs K providing information and documents, and the 
change in her requirements. English isnt Mrs Ks first language and Regents Court took 
steps to ensure it understood her. 
I must also take into account that Regents Court asked Mrs K to sign its fee agreement. The 
fee agreement Mrs K signed said 50% of the fee would be paid when the AIP was issued. 
The remaining 50% wasnt due until she received a mortgage offer. Mrs K provided a copy of 
the fee agreement, which it seems she signed in mid-March 2022, the same date as the AIP 
and the day the fee was paid.
It is possible for the parties to a contract to agree to do something different from the written 
agreement. But here the fee was paid the same day that the agreement was signed. English 
isnt Mrs Ks first language, and this presented an opportunity for misunderstanding. In the 
circumstances, I think if Regents Court wanted to charge a fee on a different basis it would 
have been fair for it first to ask Mrs K to sign an agreement that reflected this. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable to require Regents Court Financial to refund £300 of the fee it 
received from Mrs K, and pay £100 to her for the upset this matter has caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Regents Court Financial to refund £300 of 
the fee Mrs K paid and pay her £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman