DRN-3379705
The complaint
Miss B says Bamboo Limited lent irresponsibly to Miss B.
What happened
Miss B took out two instalment loans from Bamboo. A summary of her borrowing follows, 
loan 2 was used in part to settle loan 1.
Loan taken out value, £term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 23/02/2020 4,000 24 261.74 6,281.84
2 14/08/2021 5,939.70 60 247.9 14,874.15
Miss B says she had significant amounts of other debt when she applied and should never 
have been given the loans. Also, she did not return calls when Bamboo requested more 
information, yet it still went ahead and lent to her.
The investigator found Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. He said Bamboos checks were 
not proportionate and better checks would have shown it was most likely the loans would not 
be sustainably affordable for Miss B.
Bamboo disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said, in summary, Miss B had 
enough income and low debt when she first applied so more checks werent warranted. Miss 
B had more than one current accounts so we would need to review them all to understand 
her financial situation. Miss Bs income may have been lower at the time of loan 2 but it was 
still much higher than the minimum needed for the loan to be affordable.  And it added that  
overall Miss Bs credit accounts were well maintained.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Bamboo lent to Miss B required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Bamboo had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Miss B. In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Miss B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Bamboo did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Miss B. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Bs loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in 
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
- did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see there was some information Bamboo asked for from Miss B before it approved 
both loans. It asked for details of her salary and housing costs and estimated her living 
expenses using national statistics. It verified her income using payslips, a third-party service 
for loan 1 and with authorised access to her bank statements for loan 2. It carried out credit 
checks both times to understand her credit history and existing credit commitments. I cant 
see it asked about the purpose of the loans.
From these checks combined Bamboo concluded Ms M could afford both the loans. Im not 
persuaded this was a fair conclusion. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
I dont think the checks were proportionate for loan 1. I say this because of the loan value 
and the initial results from the credit check. It showed whilst Miss B was up-to-date with her 
active accounts she had clearly had some problems managing her money having 
arrangements to pay in place on both loan and credit cards accounts, as well as defaulting 
on a loan within the previous 24 months. I accept this adverse data was somewhat historic 
and I am not saying these were reasons to decline Miss B. 
But Bamboo could also see Miss B was currently using her overdraft facility, had made 13 
minimum payments in the previous 12 months and taken out cash on credit. So to give due 
regard to this information Bamboo ought to have carried out fuller checks to ensure it fully 
understood her current financial position.
I have reviewed Miss Bs bank statements from the three months prior to see what better 
checks would most likely have shown Bamboo. It would have seen she was under financial pressure: she was persistently reliant on her £3,000 overdraft, often close to this limit and 
paying daily overdraft fees. Bamboo pointed out Miss Bs credit file showed she had more 
than one current account so this is not a full picture. Miss B has since provided statements 
for a second account she used primarily for receipt of salary and then to transfer funds into 
the other account. This remained in credit but by month end had an average balance of £50. 
So this does not alter my finding. 
On balance, from what I have seen it seems Miss B was having problems managing her 
money and would be unlikely to be able to repay this loan sustainably, so without borrowing - 
be that through her overdraft or other loans. And Bamboo needed to consider this to meet its 
regulatory obligations, not just the pounds and pence affordability. 
It follows I find Bamboo was wrong to give loan 1 to Miss B.
Loan 2
By the time Miss B applied for loan 2 Bamboo could see from its credit checks that her 
indebtedness had over doubled, and her income had dropped slightly to £2,341. I note it did 
have access to her bank statements for one of her current accounts for loan two but given 
they showed frequent transfers to another account I still dont think Bamboos check were 
proportionate. It should have extended its review to have sight of both of her current 
accounts. Had it done so it would have seen that Miss B had recently taken out a payday 
loan and was making payments to another high-cost lender for a loan taken out after loan 1. 
And further investigation into this would have shown this was the third loan with this high-
cost lender after two rounds of re-financing. 
She was also still reliant on her overdraft facility. As the investigator said this was no longer 
persistent but it was for a significant portion of each month  about a third on average, and 
so she was regularly paying daily overdraft interest. In the round I think there were sufficient 
signs for the lender to realise it was most likely Miss B would be unable to sustainably repay 
this loan, and given its term Bamboo was significantly extending Miss Bs reliance on high-
cost credit.
I dont think there was evidence that Miss Bs finances had stabilised such that there wasnt 
a risk further borrowing would cause adverse financial consequences. 
In these circumstances I find Bamboo was wrong to give loan 2 to Miss B.
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I dont find it did. Miss S says that the lender asked for further information when she applied, 
but she didnt call back and it lent to her anyway. However Bamboo has provided a copy of a 
webchat between the parties that show she replied to the lenders queries through this 
channel, explaining she was unable to call. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Miss B to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on two loans that 
shouldnt have been provided to her.
So Bamboo should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss B received as a result of being given both 
loans. The repayments Miss B made should be deducted from this amount. If reworking Miss Bs loan accounts results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Miss Bs loan accounts leaves a capital balance outstanding Bamboo
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss B.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Bs complaint. Bamboo Limited must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman