DRN-3271552
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc have held him liable for multiple
transactions on his account that he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr W was undertaking an assessment of his finances and a number of transactions to
various websites were noted that went back a few years. Mr W says he didnt recognise
making those payments and told NatWest about them. Mr W asked for a refund and
NatWest called the merchants who confirmed they had accounts set up in Mr Ws name,
with his bank card details, email address and home address. These merchants provided
access to web services for a monthly fee. A few additional transactions to other online
merchants were identified after the complaint was made to our service.
Mr W, through his representative, had cancelled the accounts with the merchants and the
payments stopped leaving his account. Some transactions were refunded to Mr W by one of
the merchants, but not the others. Mr Ws representative then complained on his behalf to
NatWest about their investigation. It was explained that the transactions had started a few
months after the loss of a close family member and that Mr W didnt use the internet for
shopping or banking. It was also explained that a tablet device previously used by his close
family member was smashed, so Mr W had no means to use the internet.
Mr W explained that he hadnt lost his debit cards or revealed the security details to anyone,
nor did he use an email address. He did confirm that some online shopping was done with
his daughter under his supervision and that he had internet access for streaming music.
NatWest declined to make a refund and said that two different debit cards were used to
authorise the transactions, both for Mr Ws accounts. Mr W, through his representative,
brought his complaint to our service for an independent review.
NatWest argued that several of the transactions had fallen outside a regulation that meant
disputed transactions couldnt be considered if they were older than 13 months. One of our
investigators looked into the circumstances and agreed that the earlier transactions were
outside of this period. She also thought it was unlikely the transactions were made by
anyone else because they were made with two different cards. She also explained the
merchants had all the appropriate details for Mr W, there was no evidence of a continuous
payment authority which suggested that each transaction was separately authorised. Also, it
didnt follow the pattern of an unknown third party using the card details because they
werent used for any other purchases, or the balance of the accounts quickly run down. She
also noted that once the merchants cancelled the accounts, there were no more disputed
transactions.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review, explaining
that NatWests delay in dealing with the complaint had caused some of the transactions to
fall outside of the 13-month regulation. It was also argued that NatWest had failed to protect
Mr W and that local branch staff knew Mr W didnt use the internet to bank or shop online.
The complaint has been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or
contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that NatWest can hold Mr W liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
Authorisation is made up of two parts - authentication and consent. Authentication is usually
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, NatWest have supplied evidence that
shows the card details were used to make the payments using a continuous payment
authority. And Im satisfied the evidence shows the disputed transactions were
authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which NatWest and Mr W agreed to operate the account to
allow NatWest to make payments on Mr W s behalf. For example, NatWests terms and
conditions set out various ways that instructions can be given to NatWest, including the use
of the card details to make a purchase, which is what happened here. So, because the
correct card details were entered, Im satisfied that consent was given and the disputed
transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for
NatWest to hold Mr W responsible, for example if the card details were used without his
permission.
Mr W received a refund from one of the merchants, but they didnt explain why they did this.
But, this complaint is whether NatWest can hold Mr W liable for the transactions, not what
the merchants chose to do.
Originally, NatWest misread their records about the type of transactions and our investigator
based her outcome on this interpretation. Its apparent to me that the payments were listed
as Automated Recurring Charge and NatWest confirmed this. This reference relates to a
transaction resulting from a continuous payment authority.
The merchants that NatWest spoke to confirmed they had recorded the details for Mr W
including his name, address, email (which matches the banks registered email) and debit
card details. NatWest had little detail about the original transactions, apart from the records
that showed the payments used a continuous payment authority. This meant that the
merchants had been given permission by whoever used the card details to debit the account
based on their arrangement to provide web services. This type of web service enabled the
user to access the merchants facilities for a monthly fee and because there was a
continuous payment authority in place, the monthly payments wouldnt stop until they were
cancelled. The additional transactions that Mr W later said he didnt recognise were also
authorised by an automatic recurring charge.
The type of payments taken from Mr Ws account are often associated with free trial periods,
that then become paid for subscriptions, using the continuous payment authority. Mr W
confirmed hed looked into similar trials but had never activated them. So, I think its likely
that Mr W was using the internet prior to his device being smashed, otherwise he couldnt
have considered these free trials.
Whilst its plausible for a merchant to be given someone elses details for their unauthorised
use, I do find it more difficult to understand how two different cards were used to make
regular transactions, particularly when Mr W confirmed he hadnt lost his cards or allowedsomeone else to use them. Mr W confirmed that he lived alone at the time of these
transactions, so I dont think they were made by anyone known to him who could have had
access to his card details. Whilst I cant say for sure what happened, it seems more likely
than not that Mr W agreed to these services. I realise thatll be a difficult message for Mr W,
but its what the available evidence leads me to conclude.
Ive also considered the possibility that an unauthorised person used Mr Ws details without
his permission. If they had Mr Ws debit card details and knew enough about them, including
an email address and Mr Ws home address, then I would expect that the card would be
used in a different manner. What I mean by that is the account would typically be emptied
before the theft is noticed. When the disputed transactions started, one of the accounts held
a healthy balance, yet there were no other unrecognised transactions. Most of the
transactions Mr W has disputed were regular payments over several years, which isnt how
Id expect the card details to be used by an unknown third party.
Once the merchants were asked to end the agreements, they did so, and since then there
have been no more disputed transactions. This indicates to me that the original arrangement
to set up the payments were legitimate transactions. These transactions also came from two
different accounts belonging to Mr W, which required two different debit cards to be entered
into the merchants system to authorise the payments. If someone other than Mr W was
responsible, they would have needed to obtain both debit card details and this seems
unlikely when taking Mr Ws personal living situation into account and that he hadnt given
the details of his cards to anyone else. When I take these factors into account, it becomes
more unlikely that it was anyone other than Mr W that was responsible for the transactions.
I appreciate the comment that Mr Ws local branch knew he didnt use the internet for
shopping and banking. But, I think its unlikely his local branch knew the specific details of Mr
Ws purchases. There was evidence of legitimate internet-based transactions, so even if his
branch had examined his purchase history, these payments were active on the account for a
considerable period of time and the longer the went on, the more normal they would appear.
I dont think these transactions would have been seen as unusual. So, I dont think that
NatWest failed to protect Mr W.
13- month exclusion
In the investigators report, the text of the regulations explains the law surrounding the 13-
month rule, so I wont repeat it here. Mr W has explained that he didnt read his statements,
which is why he wasnt aware of the transactions being made from his account. Mr W had all
his correspondence, including statements posted to his home address. I appreciate what Mr
W has said and Ive taken into account the difficult circumstances that Mr W experienced
after the loss of a close family member. But, I think he had the opportunity to notice these
disputed transactions much sooner than he did because the statements were posted to him.
So, I can see why NatWest mentioned the 13-month exclusion here.
Mr Ws representative has argued that the delay by NatWest in dealing with the issue
caused some of the transactions to fall outside the 13-month rule. In the investigators report,
it was explained that Mr W notified the bank about the unrecognised transactions on 13
February 2020 and that meant that only those transactions made after 13 January 2019
could be considered. There is evidence that Mr W notified NatWest about the problem
several days earlier on 5 February 2020, which would change the date for the 13-month rule.
Having looked at the disputed transactions, there are a few that fall between 5 January and
13 January 2019. But, as Ive found that Mr W was more than likely responsible for
authorising the transactions, ultimately the 13-month rule doesnt really affect the outcome
here for the reasons Ive already given.While Im sure Mr W will disagree with me, the evidence that Ive considered leads me to the
conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not that Mr W
authorised or allowed his card details to be used to make the payments. So, taking
everything into account, I think it is fair and reasonable for NatWest to hold Mr W responsible
for these transactions.
I invited Mr W and NatWest to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. NatWest didnt respond and Mr W, through his 
rep commented that NatWest failed to follow their own polices with regards to customer 
service, was critical of their fraud protection policies and didnt pick up repeat transactions. 
As a result, Mr W has suffered a significant financial loss and experienced financial hardship. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws rep was critical of NatWests fraud protection policies because it didnt pick up repeat 
transactions. But, these were authorised by a continuous payment authority which gives the 
merchant permission to take a payment based on their agreement with the user, and 
typically continue until theyre cancelled. These services were used over quite a long period 
of time, but generally spread out over different days, so its not something Id say would 
particularly stand out as unusual. When the merchants were spoken to by NatWest, they 
confirmed that different types of services were paid for through the same merchant. I think 
this is why there were multiple charges appearing from the same merchant. As I explained in 
my provisional decision, the longer particular merchant(s) are used, the less likely these 
would appear suspicious to NatWest.
There are some transactions that took place when Mr W was using his overdraft which for 
some time appeared to be manageable, latterly Mr Ws accounts were often in their overdraft 
which is when I understand he sought additional help. It was at this point that these 
payments, according to Mr W, came to light. I accept that several of these payments were 
taken when Mr W was having difficulty with his account, although several were later 
refunded by the merchant. Mr Ws financial situation wasnt caused by these payments, 
although Im sure they contributed to them. 
Mr Ws rep complained about NatWests customer service and their failure to follow their 
own policies. These policies generally relate to secure banking, including refunds for 
unauthorised transactions. As I think Mr W was more likely than not responsible for making 
these transactions, it follows that because they were authorised, these policies wouldnt 
apply.
Ive considered the complaint based on Mr Ws additional comments through his rep and 
ultimately, I cant see a plausible explanation for how an unknown third party could obtain 
the necessary details from two different debit cards and other personal information about Mr 
W that these merchants held. Ive not seen anything from Mr W that would alter my 
provisional decision which Im now adopting as my final decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman