DRN-2090420
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have unfairly made an adverse report to credit 
referencing agencies about a debt he did not know about.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B doesnt dispute that he authorised the payment to the third-party account, and 
has said he recognises the payee. And given that it was a guaranteed payment made 
by card, HSBC were obliged to pay the amount from their own funds after he has 
closed his account, as that there was not enough to cover the payment in Mr Bs 
Lloyds account that he had switched over to. HSBC then sought to recover the 
balance from Mr B by sending two letters on 14 and 28 March 2019 requesting 
reimbursement. 
Mr B says he did not receive any letters from HSBC. However, I can see that both 
letters were correctly addressed with the details held on file for him at the time (which 
is the same address we hold for him), and Ive got to take into account that the vast 
majority of correctly addressed mail is safely received by the intended recipient. Ive 
not been made aware of any problems with the postal service during this period, but I 
appreciate its possible that letters can get lost in the post every now and then. 
However, I find it unlikely that this would have happened to both letters sent by 
HSBC so, on balance, I think he would have likely received at least one of the letters 
asking for reimbursement of the sum paid. 
Given that the payment was not forthcoming from Mr B, HSBC reported the amount 
outstanding to the credit referencing agencies, which is in line with what I would have 
expected in these circumstances. HSBC are obliged to provide accurate reports in 
this regard that reflect the overall picture of the credit relationship between a bank 
and their customer  including outstanding debts. Therefore, given that there is 
nothing inaccurate about what they have reported, I consider there to be no fair and 
reasonable basis in which to direct them to amend the information theyve provided 
to the credit referencing agencies.
 
Mr B says that he should have been offered a repayment plan. And this is something 
I would expect them to now consider if he is not a financial position to repay the debt, 
and he will need to get in touch with HSBC to make such arrangements. If they 
refuse any such plan, he can raise another complaint at that point and we can 
consider if they have treated him fairly by doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman