DRN-2347508
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited are chasing him for a 
debt that he doesnt recognise and for which they dont have the original agreement.
What happened
This complaint is about an unsecured bank loan from 1998, which defaulted and was sold to 
Cabot in 2007. Mr B set up affordable payments to Cabot at the time and kept them updated 
with his circumstances. He paid towards the debt for around 12 years.
In 2019, Mr B asked Cabot for documents such as the credit agreement and a statement of 
account, under the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act. Cabot responded regarding two 
other accounts but not this one. They later apologised for overlooking this account and put 
£100 towards the balance as compensation for their mistake. They confirmed they didnt still 
have the agreement. Mr B said the debt was unenforceable.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Mr B and Cabot had been in touch with each other about this account over 
the years and Mr B had been paying it for some time. So they felt reasonably satisfied it was 
his account, even if the documents werent still available after so many years. They 
explained only a court could look at enforceability. And they felt Cabots apology and 
compensation had put their mistake right in terms of not addressing the issue at first.
Mr B didnt agree. He explained that for all he knew, the account could be someone elses 
that was assigned to him by a typo. He asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain that only a court can decide whether this debt is enforceable or not  Im 
not allowed to make a judgement on that. I can consider whether its fair for Cabot to ask 
Mr B to repay the debt, or not.
I can completely understand Mr Bs frustration that the original documents arent still 
available. However, this debt is well over two decades old, and the credit facility involved has 
long since closed. So its rather unsurprising that no one still has the original documents. Ive 
thought carefully about whats most likely to be the case with this account, based on the 
information I do have.
I can see that Cabot wrote to Mr B when they bought the debt. They also kept him updated 
over the years about the management of the account, and about what hed been paying and 
what the balance was. They wrote to the correct address, and I can see he received at least 
some of these documents  for example, he forwarded on one of the statements. So he 
should have been well aware of this account over the years. But he doesnt appear to have 
raised any dispute before.
According to Cabots records, Mr B similarly kept them up to date with his circumstances, re-
arranging his payments as the amount he could afford changed. He made payments towards 
this account for around 12 years. It is very difficult to see why hed have done that if he didnt 
ever recognise the account as being his.
I do understand that Mr B was going through a truly tough period at the time, and that he 
broadly let his debt management company handle things for him. But he would need to have 
asked the debt management company to take on this debt, and given them the details of the 
account along with his authority, and worked out what repayments were affordable. I dont 
think hed have done that if he didnt recognise the account at the time. Its highly unlikely 
indeed that it was assigned to Mr B by a typing mistake, as hes suggested, and Ive not 
seen any evidence that this was anyone elses account. Whereas I do think its both 
plausible and understandable if the debt really is Mr Bs, but he no longer remembers it 
because of all the time thats passed. So based on the evidence and the balance of 
probabilities, I think its fair to conclude that this is most likely Mr Bs debt.
Ive not seen any evidence to indicate that the wrong balance was sold on, either. And 
Cabots statements show how the balance got to where it is now over the years its been 
with them.
So with all of that in mind, it seems fair that Cabot are asking Mr B to repay the outstanding 
debt.
I do think Cabot got things wrong by failing to respond to Mr Bs information request. But 
I think theyve already put that right by apologising and putting compensation towards the 
account. So I dont require them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman