DRN-3574422
The complaint
Mr D complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) have paid less than it should 
have towards the cost of replacing his boiler under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr D had a policy with D&G that provides an annual service for his central heating boiler and 
insurance against breakdown. It also provides for a contribution towards the cost of a 
replacement boiler if it cant be repaired. 
He called D&G in April 2022 after his boiler broke down. An engineer attended but was 
unable to fix the problem due to parts being unavailable. Mr D instead asked D&G to pay 
him a £1500 cash settlement towards a replacement boiler, that he was entitled to under his 
policy. D&G only agreed to pay £750, saying the policy had a £1,500 repair limit rather than 
replacement value and so Mr D complained. 
D&G said that under the terms of the policy, the £1500 was a repair limit not a replacement 
limit. And they provided evidence to show that the estimated cost of the repair in this case 
was the manufacturers fixed price repair charge - £190.26. They said theyd offered £750 in 
order to be fair. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She said that she didnt think the 
policy wording was clear. She also didnt think it was fair to cap the benefit at the estimated 
repair cost (£196.20). Sating that parts for this boiler were very unlikely to be available due 
to its age. 
As no agreement was reached, it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
I needed to consider whether D&G has acted fairly and reasonably in line with the T&Cs of 
the policy, the law and industry good practice, in its dealings with Mr D and I dont think it 
had. 
The T&Cs applicable to Mr Ds policy set out an overall policy limit of £1,500 for repairs and 
replacement: the policy limit is the most well pay in total towards repairs and/or towards a 
replacement for the product. The policy limit is £1,500. This does say the policy will pay 
£1,500 towards replacement and this is what Mr D understood the policy to offer. 
There was a further section in the T&Cs headed Repairs and write offs Which says if a 
product cant be repaired vouchers or cash will be provided instead (of repair) and: will be 
the lesser of either:
  Our repairers estimated cost of the repair (this will often be the manufacturers fixed price 
repair charge); or
  the balance of the policy limit  Under this policy you will not receive a replacement boiler 
and we will therefore not be responsible for any installation and delivery costs. 
I didnt think this wording was clear enough for Mr D to realise that it meant if the boiler 
couldnt be repaired the policy limit didnt apply and what the policy did offer was a set but 
undisclosed amount, based on something not actually available. And that this set amount 
was significantly less than the £1,500 policy limit. D&G has said that the maximum the policy 
provided for was £190.26  the manufacturers fixed price repair charge, rather than the 
balance of the policy limit of £1,500. 
This clause doesnt refer to parts availability and as D&G said the boiler couldnt be repaired, 
I dont think it is reasonable to refer to a fixed price repair that isnt available, rather than the 
balance of the policy limit also provided for. If parts could have been obtained the policy 
would have paid out up to £1,500, but because parts cant be obtained it effectively offers a 
set policy amount. This is a substantial difference and it wasnt clearly disclosed to Mr D, 
despite D&G holding full details of his boiler. I dont think there is enough information in the 
documents provided to Mr D for him to be been aware of the significance of this clause, 
relative to the premiums he was paying and policy limit of £1,500. So, I dont think it is fair 
and reasonable. 
Whilst D&G agreed to pay out more than the fixed priced repair charge provided for, I dont 
think that term is reasonable, I think D&G should pay Mr D a further amount of £750 to meet 
the full £1,500 provided for under the policy limit. I also think interest should be added on top 
of this, to compensate Mr D for the loss of use of funds he has paid to replace the boiler. 
I can see that D&G have also refunded Mr D some premiums paid after he had requested to 
cancel his policy and topped this amount up to £100 for the service received and delays 
suffered. Mr D appears happy with this amount and I am satisfied that it is in line with what 
we would award for these errors and the impact it had. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint against 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc. 
I direct Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay Mr D a further £750 with interest at 8% a 
year simple from the date it settled his claim. Domestic & General Insurance Plc must pay 
the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it he accepts my final decision. 
If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
If Domestic & General Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell how much its taken off. It should also 
give a certificate showing this if Mr D asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman