DRN-1477747
 
The complaint
Mr H says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999. The policy was added to 
Mr Hs credit card account when he applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed. In summary, Mr H mainly said 
that he thought taking out PPI was compulsory in order to get the credit card he was 
applying for - but it wasnt something he wanted or needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
I think Capital One made Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. 
There were Yes and No tick boxes for PPI on the credit card application form Mr H filled in. 
So he would've been able to see that he could've ticked the No box if he hadnt wanted to 
take out PPI. 
Mr H ticked the Yes box for PPI indicating that he wanted the insurance  and it was added 
to his account at his request. I think the way the form was set out made it clear that having 
PPI was his choice and that it was up to Mr H to say if he wanted to take out PPI  or not. 
But its completely understandable if hes forgotten some of the details of this application 
after so long. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. But it still had to make sure that Mr H had enough information to make a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for him. And if this didn't happen, then I have to think 
about whether this made any overall difference to Mr H.
Mr H was eligible for the PPI cover. He doesnt appear to have had significant other means 
to make his credit card repayments if he couldnt work. Relying on other people to help out in 
the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. The policy couldve protected his credit card monthly repayments for up to 12 months per 
claim in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think Mr H couldve 
benefitted from the PPI. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr Hs case. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put him off taking it out. 
 
Its possible some of the information Capital One gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Mr H chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to and so it 
appears he wanted to have this type of cover. The policy appears to have been affordable 
for him  he couldve cancelled the insurance at any time if he didnt want to keep paying for 
it.  
So I think it unlikely Mr H wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy. 
This means I dont find that Mr H has lost out as a result of anything that Capital One did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman