DRN-2951288
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of India (BOI) gave him misleading information about the interest 
rate he could expect to receive on a five-year fixed rate savings account. He feels BOI mis-
sold the account to him and says hes lost out financially.
What happened
Having visited a BOI branch in April 2016, Mr K deposited £30,000 into a five-year fixed rate 
savings account. He says BOI staff told him the account hed chosen attracted an interest 
rate of 3%. However, when his account matured five years later (whilst receiving the amount 
of interest BOI said he would) Mr K realised it was based on an interest rate of 2.83%. He 
says hes lost out on interest of £275.75.  
Mr K complained to BOI about this and asked it to pay him the amount he says hes lost. BOI 
said that the 3% interest rate quoted when Mr K opened his account referred to the gross 
(contractual) interest rate. It added that the Annual Equivalent Rate (AER) in 2016 was 
2.83%, which, when compounded annually for five years, amounted to 3%. So, BOI was 
satisfied it had correctly applied interest to the account in line with its terms.
Mr K wasnt happy, so he brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into 
things and was satisfied BOI didnt need to do anything more. The investigator felt that the 
information BOI gave Mr K about interest rates could perhaps have been clearer (in terms of 
whether compound or simple interest would be added). But he was satisfied that the amount 
of interest BOI paid was what it told Mr K he could expect to receive. Whilst Mr K indicated 
he understood the investigators assessment, he wasnt happy overall and asked an 
Ombudsman to look at things afresh. So, the matters been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K is adamant that BOI told him hed receive interest of 3% and says it never mentioned 
interest of 2.83% being payable. Hes also suggested hed have made different decisions if 
hed known the correct interest rate. 
Whereas BOI insists it told Mr K how much interest hed receive by sharing an interest rate 
chart and discussing the fixed rate deposit account with him. It also said the information 
would have been displayed on its branch notice boards (amongst other places) at the time. 
So, as far as its concerned, it gave Mr K the right information and paid out what was due 
when the account matured.
Clearly, I cant say for certain what was or wasn't discussed when Mr K opened his account. 
Its apparent that BOI gave Mr K some information about interest rates, particularly given the 
fact hes referred to a rate of 3%, which was one of the rates that applied to his account (as 
opposed to a completely unconnected rate). But even if BOI didnt specifically tell Mr K that 
the interest hed earn when his account matured would be based on a rate of 2.83%, I dont 
think it made a difference in this case. Thats because Ive also seen evidence to show that 
BOI gave Mr K a deposit slip when he opened the account, telling him how much interest 
hed earn when it matured. And thats the amount that BOI paid. Irrespective of whether the 
amount of interest paid was based on a rate of 3% or 2.83%, Mr K knew at the outset how 
much he was due to receive. So, I dont think BOI mis-led Mr K.  
Mr Ks also indicated hed have made different decisions had he known the correct interest 
rate. Im not persuaded by that argument. Again, I think BOI made it clear upfront how much 
interest would be paid when the account matured. Mr K proceeded in any event and theres 
no evidence to show he raised concerns before the account matured five years later. This 
tends to suggest that Mr K would still have gone ahead even if BOI had made it clearer that 
the amount of interest hed receive at the end of the five-year period was based on a rate of 
2.83% and not 3% as he thought. 
For all of the reasons set out above, I dont think BOI has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman