DRN-4349684
The complaint
Miss L has complained HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money she lost from her account as 
a result of a scam.
What happened
Miss L fell victim to a safe account scam. After her details were compromised via a phishing 
text, Miss L was contacted by individuals claiming to be from HSBCs fraud department.
Miss L says she was told that her accounts were at risk and that she needed to move her 
money into a safe account. Miss L says she was told to open a new account with another 
bank, R, and to move her money into that account before sending it on again to the safe 
account. Unfortunately, and unknown to her at the time, Miss L was actually speaking with 
fraudsters.
Believing that she was genuinely dealing with legitimate banking institutions, Miss L ended 
up making three payments from HSBC to her account with R. The last of these payments 
was stopped by HSBC as it was deemed to be potentially suspicious. But by this stage 
Miss L had already transferred most of the first two payments out of her account with R and 
on to the scammers. In total, Miss L lost £5,400.
Miss L realised she had been the victim of a scam shortly after ending her conversation with 
the scammers, and reported the matter to HSBC to see if it could help. HSBC logged the 
fraud, but told Miss L she would need to contact R to see if it could recover her money. 
Miss L raised a complaint about what had happened with HSBC. Specifically, she asked for 
clarification of why only the third scam payment was deemed suspicious. 
When HSBC responded to Miss Ls complaint it reiterated that Miss L would need to speak 
to R as it would be unable to reimburse her for the money or to recover her lost funds. It did 
though pay her £50 for poor service shed received in the complaint process. Miss L 
remained unhappy with HSBCs response, and referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but they felt that HSBC had 
intervened at the appropriate time, and did not think it was reasonable to ask HSBC to 
refund any of Miss Ls loss.
Miss L remained unhappy, so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Its not disputed that Miss L authorised the payments that are in dispute here. And HSBC 
has an obligation to follow Miss Ls instructions. So as per the Payment Service Regulations 
2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that means Miss L is responsible for 
the payments she made. That remains the case even though Miss L was the unfortunate 
victim of a scam.
Because of this, Miss L is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory 
landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account 
providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams.
Taking the above into consideration, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Miss L, or whether it should have done more than it did.
HSBC has confirmed it has mechanisms in place to check for unusual or potentially 
suspicious transactions. I appreciate that Miss L would like to know exactly why the third 
payments she made triggered HSBCs systems, but the earlier payments did not. But this 
isnt the kind of detail I would expect HSBC to share with customers. A banks fraud 
detection systems will be most effective when the triggers or thresholds it uses are not 
widely known, in order to limit the ability of scammers to circumvent those triggers. 
HSBC has noted in its submission to us that its system flags payments that may indicate the 
risk of a scam or fraud. HSBC says that the third payment was likely flagged because it 
indicated that a scam or fraud trend was emerging. But it has said the earlier payments were 
likely simply not unusual enough, in the context of Miss Ls account, to have flagged as 
unusual.
My role here is to determine whether the point at which HSBC did intervene was reasonable 
given the payments Miss L made as part of the scam and how she usually operated her 
account. And having looked closely at her account statements Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for HSBC to intervene when it did, I would not expect it to have stepped in 
earlier.
I say this because while the first two scam payments were relatively large, they were to an 
account in Miss Ls own name, and it was not unusual for her to make transfers of larger 
amounts to other accounts she held. I appreciate that Miss L had transferred money from 
her savings account to her current account shortly before making these payments out of her 
current account, but I dont think that would be enough to indicate to HSBC that something 
might be wrong, particularly given  as I noted above  that these were payments to another 
account belonging to Miss L, and so would be inherently less risky than payments to an 
unknown third party.
I consider that it was only by the time of the third payment that the pattern had begun to 
emerge that might suggest something untoward was going on. By that time three payments 
had been made or attempted in quick succession, to a total value of over £8,000, more than 
double the value of any payment Miss L had made in the preceding year. So I think it was 
appropriate for HSBC to intervene at this stage, and to stop the payment. Given its 
obligations to process the payments its customers ask it to make, I dont think its reasonable 
to say HSBC should have intervened earlier. And on that basis, I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable to ask HSBC to refund the money Miss L has lost.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds after 
Miss L reported the fraud. Im satisfied that HSBC could not have done more here. Miss L 
had transferred money to her own account with R before the funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer. So HSBC wouldnt have the same obligations as the bank responsible for the eventual transfer to the scammers account. And in any case, the funds 
were moved on from the account with R before Miss L reported the scam to HSBC, so there 
would have been to funds to recover by that stage.
I appreciate how distressing it must have been to be a victim of a scam and theres no 
dispute that Miss L has lost out here. But it would only be fair for me to direct HSBC to 
refund her loss if I thought it was responsible for the failure that caused it. And with what Ive 
seen, I dont think I can fairly conclude that it was a failure by HSBC that led to Miss Ls loss. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss L, as I know she feels strongly about this matter. But in the 
circumstances, I will not be asking HSBC to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman