DRN-2371017
The complaint
Mr D complained to The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
that he was unhappy with the claim value it paid him under his motor car policy. He was also 
unhappy with delays in receiving correspondence in relation to the claim.
What happened
Following an accident in his car, Mr D made a claim to NFU. Having assessed the car, NFU 
deemed the car uneconomical to repair, so offered a settlement value for the car initially of 
£29,000. After dialogue between the parties, the settlement figure was increased to £30,500 
before a higher final settlement was paid by NFU. It said in the event of your vehicle being 
uneconomical to repair, your policy entitles you to claim for the market value of the vehicle. 
In this case I can confirm the final valuation settlement of your vehicle as £33,000 and your 
excess has been waived. 
Mr D said the complaint concerns [NFUs] unwillingness to offer me a settlement amount 
that will allow me to replace my car which they have written off with a like for like equivalent 
and [for its] delays in responding to my correspondence which has prevented me from 
buying one of the very limited number of cars that have been available.
Mr D said, the asking price of the nearest like for like equivalent that I was able to find for 
my car, given its specification and eligibility for an extended approved warranty, was £34,990 
so I still consider £35,000 to be the amount required to comply with the wording of their 
policy.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said NFU had acted in line with the 
terms of their policy and used the evidence from industry standard valuation tools to 
calculate a fair settlement value. Mr D disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds policy requires the insurer to compensate him for the market value of his vehicle 
immediately before the loss. So, I will consider whether I think NFU has been fair in the level 
of compensation it has offered.
I have reviewed the process NFU followed to arrive at their settlement value. It said it 
analysed the age of the vehicle, condition, similar trade valuations and [used] the 
knowledge and expertise of its staff engineers to reach its initial valuation of £29,000.
It then said given the additional specifications of Mr Ds vehicle as well as the manufacturer 
warranty and full-service history from the manufacturer, we refined our search criteria and 
amended our settlement to £33,000, which is significantly more than the guide price. This 
was based on a very limited number of examples which would fit the same calibre of vehicle 
as your own. It did find one similar vehicle to compare, which was for sale at £34,990 
however, this example did have significantly less mileage than your own vehicle
and therefore, our offer of £33,000 was reflected in this.
I think the approach NFU has taken is reasonable, its what I would expect an insurer to 
follow when placing a market value on a car. I also noted it validated its valuation with 
several dealerships that sell similar cars. I have access to independent trade market 
valuation sites, and I have checked the valuations these sites put forward for a car like Mr 
Ds, in order to validate what NFU has paid.
The valuations NFU have put forward are consistent with what the trade market valuation 
sites are returning. NFU appears to have valued the car at the higher end of the range 
offered by industry benchmarks. Therefore, I think NFU has been fair in its valuation of the 
car.
NFU reduced its valuation by £2,000 because the car it was comparing with had a much 
lower mileage. Mr D doesnt think this was fair. Mr D argued his car was a performance car, 
so the service history is of greater importance to its value than the mileage. Mr D said the 
car that was available in the market at £34,990 was the only car on the market at that time of 
a comparable nature, so under the policy, NFU should have provided a settlement value that 
would allow purchase of that car. 
NFU applied the £2,000 reduction from experience, knowledge and expertise of its staff. I 
think its likely the mileage of a car would be considered by a buyer when a car is bought. I 
think its likely a similar car would be worth more if it had less mileage. I think it would be 
reasonable to assume it was in better condition. The car NFU compared had around 20,000 
less miles on the clock less than Mr Ds. So, I think NFU has been reasonable in adjusting 
the price by £2,000 for this factor. The car it was been compared to was likely to be in better 
condition due to the lower mileage and under the policy NFU only had to provide a 
settlement to replace the car with one of the same make, model, specification, age and 
condition. Therefore, I think NFU has been reasonable in the settlement it has paid as it has 
adjusted the benchmarked figures for the condition of Mr Ds car.
Mr D also thought the extended manufacturers warranty would add to the value of his car. I 
think NFU has tried to factor this in when it benchmarked the price, so by doing this I think it 
has been fair. Having read the policy, I dont think NFU had to take this into account when 
valuing Mr Ds car, but it decided to do so to provide a reasonable settlement.
I have also considered Mr Ds complaint for delays in NFU responding to him. NFU has 
accepted that its communication couldve been better and has offered £200 in 
compensation for this. Its unclear if this has been paid. Having looked at the complaint, I 
cant see evidence of significant issues with communication, so I dont think NFUs offer is 
unfair. Mr D can still accept this if he hasnt already. NFUs settlement payment was paid to 
Mr D in a timely manner, so I dont think NFUs actions have unfairly hindered Mr Ds ability 
to purchase a replacement vehicle.
In summary, I dont uphold this complaint. I think NFU have followed a sensible approach to 
valuing the car and has paid Mr D promptly. Therefore, I dont require it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman