The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wrongly made a search on his 
credit record and wont remove it.
What happened
Mr G was thinking about switching his account to Halifax. He went onto its website in 
January 2019 and input some data. But he says he changed his mind and did not proceed. 
He found that a hard credit search had been made. When he first contacted Halifax it said 
that it would remove this record and it sent him a payment of £25. But the record wasnt 
removed and when he contacted it again in April 2019 it told him that its first response was 
an error and that the search would stay. He was unhappy with the tone of the person he 
spoke to on the phone about this and who offered to pay him a further £50. Mr G said he 
never received the letter promised about this.
Our investigator did not recommend that Halifax do more than it had offered to do. He said 
that:
Halifax had provided copies of what Mr G would have seen online when he started
his application. This had a link to its privacy policy and said that we will collect
information from a number of sources including from, or through, other organisations
(for example card associations, credit reference agencies, insurance companies,
retailers, comparison websites, social media and fraud prevention agencies). And
that We carry out credit and identity checks when you apply for a product or services
for you or your business. We may use Credit Reference Agencies to help us with
this. And When we ask CRAs about you or your business, they will note it on your
credit file. This is called a credit search. Other lenders may see this and we may see
credit searches from other lenders.
Personal information was collected after this first page and then the details would be
checked.
Mr G must have got to the point of entering those personal details otherwise the
credit search couldnt have taken place. As he was in the process of applying for a
current account it was reasonable for Halifax to complete a search.
It was a matter for Halifax to decide on its processes and whether a hard or soft
search is used. Mr G says that his credit score decreased in February and March
2019. It wasnt possible to say that this was definitely due to the search and how this
might affect his planned future mortgage application.
Hed listened to the call recording and did not think that the person Mr G spoke to
was rude and noted that that person had apologised to him if any of his comments
had come across in the wrong way.
DRN-1621113Halifax had provided a copy of a final response dated 23 April 2019 with the further 
offer of £50. Its notes show Mr G called again when he hadnt received it and it was 
sent again. He couldnt hold it responsible for problems with the postal system.
 
Mr G did not agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that consent to the 
credit search was only given at the time the application was made. And he thought it only 
necessary if a credit product was being applied for. He did not receive the final response 
letter. Hed accepted compensation of £25 on the basis that the search would be removed 
and he maintained that his credit score had been affected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid having done so I agree with what our investigators said.
There was information provided on Halifaxs website as part of the online application. And 
the investigators quoted relevant parts of this. I think by entering his personal information Mr 
G consented to it being used in this way. And I dont think him changing his mind about the 
application after that point meant he could withdraw his consent. I think Halifax could fairly 
make these checks during his online application and I think its clear what the purpose of the 
online forms was. I dont think it was unreasonable the search be made as part of a current 
account application as Halifax considered his credit history to be relevant. Credit scores are 
complex and propriety and as the search was made legitimately I dont have a basis for find 
Halifax at fault even if it was the cause of a fall in his score.
It is unfortunate that the person he initially spoke to about his complaint gave him incorrect 
information about the search and said it would be removed. I can see a request to remove it 
was generated but it was clearly not actioned and Halifax did not tell Mr G that. He had to 
find out for himself and again in a further letter of 10 April 2019 was told that this had been 
done. He is particularly unhappy with a call on 23 April 2019 when he was given the opposite 
information. He thought that member of staff was patronising. Ive listened to the call too and 
I dont think the member of staff had appreciated the frustration Mr G would feel when he 
found out what hed been told before was wrong. But I think that the call was professional 
and that Halifax made a reasonable offer to resolve things.
I cant resolve why Mr G didnt get the final response even though hes received and 
scanned the other correspondence to that point. But I dont find that was another error from 
Halifax. I know Mr G will be very disappointed when I say that I wont be asking it to do more 
than it has already offered to do and which is to pay him a further £50 making a total of £75.
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
Halifax has already made an offer to pay a further £50 to settle this complaint and I think that 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax pay Mr G a further £50 making a total of £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman