DRN-3364405
The complaint
Mr F and Ms B complain that EIS Financial Services Ltd (EIS) provided them with incorrect 
information when they wished to top up an investment. Mr F and Ms B also complain that 
they paid for ongoing servicing on their account which they did not receive.
Mr F and Ms B say they suffered a financial loss when their adviser recommended another 
investment and want compensation.
Mr F and Ms B say that the complaint has caused them material distress and would like 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
What happened
In January 2011, Mr F and Ms B invested directly into a Scottish Widows bond. 
Following Mr Fs retirement in 2013, Mr F and Ms B contacted EIS for advice on investing a 
lump sum. Mr F and Ms B say that they wished to top up their existing bond but were 
informed that the bond was closed, and it wasnt possible to top up their investment.
The adviser took Mr F and Ms B through a fact find exercise and a suitability letter containing 
recommendations was sent on 22 July 2013. The adviser recommended that Mr F and Ms B 
invest into ISAs and a joint Skandia Collective Investment Account which would purchase a 
managed fund. The suitability letter did not mention the Scottish Widows bond. Mr F and Ms 
B went ahead with the recommendations made by EIS.
Mr F and Ms B complained to EIS in August 2020. They said that:
they had paid an ongoing service charge but had not received an annual review of their 
investments
they had concerns about the performance of their investments and had raised this with 
their adviser on more than one occasion. They said that no alternative investment 
recommendation was offered until February 2020.
they were told that they could not top up their Scottish Widows bond and this was 
inaccurate information
EIS investigated the complaint and responded on 7 October 2020. EIS upheld a part of Mr F 
and Ms Bs complaint but rejected other parts of the complaint.
EIS said that they had not been offered annual financial reviews and agreed to refund fees 
to the value of £5,761.38. EIS did not uphold the other parts of the complaint saying that 
they thought the initial advice was suitable. They also said that although incorrect 
information on the bond was given by the adviser, they would not have recommended that 
savings be invested into a small concentrated number of funds.
Unhappy with EIS final response, Mr F and Ms B forwarded their complaint to the service 
and one of our investigators reviewed the complaint.
The investigator didnt think that EIS had acted fairly and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator asked EIS to compensate Mr F and Ms B on the following basis:
compare the performance of the recommended investment against the Scottish Widows 
bond that Mr F and Ms B wanted to top up. Deduct 3% fees that would have been 
charged. Compensate any difference if the Scottish Widows bond had a value higher 
than the recommended investment.
pay Mr F and Ms B £200 for the trouble and upset caused 
repay the adviser fees associated with the recommended investment plus any ongoing 
service fees. Pay simple interest of 8% on this amount from date fees were paid to date 
of the settlement.
EIS did not agree with the investigators view and responded with several challenges. Mr F 
and Ms B replied with some clarification on the fees that they had paid and said that EIS had 
calculated these incorrectly in the final response that they sent. They also questioned the 
dates which would be used for the redress calculation and that they would not have been 
charged a 3% initial fee on purchasing the Scottish Widows bond. 
Mr F and Ms B also felt that the award for trouble and upset was too low and asked that they 
be awarded £2,500 each for the non-financial loss that they suffered.
As both EIS and Mr F and Ms B did not agree with the investigators view, they have asked 
for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 30 November 2021.  In my provisional 
decision I explained the reasons why I thought the complaint should succeed. I asked both 
parties to send me more evidence or information they wanted me to look at by 28 December 
2021.
Both parties replied. EIS said that they would not dispute my provisional decision and had 
calculated redress in line with how I thought they should put things right.
Mr F replied with some further points of information and challenged my award for the trouble 
and upset caused. Mr F again questioned if the redress calculation would run to February 
2020 and asked for confirmation that the simple interest award was a per annum figure. He 
also confirmed his understanding that they would not have paid the initial 3% advice fee if 
they had topped up the Scottish Widows bond in 2013.
I issued a second provisional decision on 4 February 2021. In my provisional decision I 
explained the reasons why I thought the complaint should succeed and gave more detail on 
how I thought EIS should compensate Mr F and Ms B. I asked both parties to send me more 
evidence or information they wanted me to look at by 28 February 2022. 
EIS replied with one challenge to my provisional decision. They said when Mr F and Ms B 
invested into the Skandia accounts in 2013, they used a £100,000 lump sum plus 
consolidated existing ISA investments worth £69,013. EIS commented that the Scottish 
Widows bond did not include an option for some funds to be held within it under an ISA 
wrapper, and consequently funds transferred into it from ISAs would have lost their tax 
efficient status. As a result, they suggested that the loss calculation in this case should be 
based upon an investment in 2013 of £100,000, rather than £169,013. EISs view was that 
the ISA funds would have been consolidated into a new ISA (which was what EIS arranged 
at this time), rather than being invested in the Scottish Widows bond. I will cover this off in 
my decision.
Mr F and Ms B replied with comments in relation to:The initial provisional decision issued in November 2021
Clarification of ISA timescales 
Comments on my second provisional decision relating to the date to which redress 
should be calculated, the amount of compensation for the trouble and upset caused and 
refund of the initial service fee.
I will consider Mr F and Ms Bs comments in my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint should 
succeed. Ill set out a summary of my conclusions below.
I would like to thank both parties for the submissions that they have made which have 
allowed me to reach this decision. I am sorry for the length of time that it has taken to reach 
this point and I thank both parties for their patience.
I will look at each part of the complaint in turn.
Inaccurate information on whether Mr F and Ms B could top up their bond
In their submission to the service, Mr F and Ms B say that it was always their intention to top 
up their Scottish Widows bond as they were happy with its performance. They said that they 
were disappointed when the adviser said that the bond was closed.
In EIS final response to Mr F and Ms Bs complaint, they said that the adviser provided the 
information that he was given at the time and understood to be correct. EIS now say that that 
they understand that the bond was open at the time.
EIS went on to say that whilst the bond was open, they would not ever recommend investing 
an entire pot of savings into a small concentrated number of funds.
In EIS submission to the service, they have said that they have now been able to contact 
the adviser (who had left EIS employment). EIS say that the advisers recollections were as 
follows:
Mr F had an existing investment bond and an additional sum to invest. We discussed the 
possibility of adding this to his existing investment, however after discussion, decided that 
using their tax allowances through ISAs, with the additional monies to an investment account 
with a view to feeding this into ISAs over the coming years could be more tax efficient for 
them.
At no point were the clients told that their existing investment was closed as this was not the 
case. Rather a discussion was held, and a more tax efficient method of investment agreed 
upon.
When reviewing this complaint, I have looked at the available information from both parties. 
As this would have been an important part of the conversation during the fact-find, I would 
have expected it to be covered within the Suitability Letter that was sent out with the 
recommendations.On this point, there is little evidence on file for me to comfortably conclude what has 
happened. As I wasnt at the meeting, I dont know what was said so I have therefore 
considered what is likely to have happened based on the balance of probability.
On one hand, EIS have said that the adviser didnt say that the bond was closed and that an 
alternative recommendation was agreed as it was more tax efficient. On the other hand, Mr 
F and Ms B say that it was always their intention to top-up their bond. 
Mr F and Ms B have given detailed recollections about the meeting they had with the adviser 
in 2013. They are clear that they said to the adviser that they wanted to put further money 
into the Scottish Widows bond. On balance I am more persuaded by Mr F and Ms Bs 
submission that they wished to top up their investment and I think that this was their 
intention. As they were provided with information that it was not possible, they agreed to the 
alternative recommendation.
I have also taken note that EIS said in their submission to the service that the bond was 
open and incorrect information was provided by the adviser.
EIS have said that they have looked at the 2013 recommendations and believe that the 
advice was appropriate. I have considered this, but I think that on the balance of probability, 
the adviser gave information that turned out to be incorrect and therefore the subsequent 
recommendations were not consistent with what was important to Mr F and Ms B.
As full information was not available to Mr F and Ms B, I dont think that they were able to 
make an informed decision. If they had been informed correctly that they could add to the 
Scottish Widows bond, based on the weight of evidence, on balance my view is that Mr F 
and Ms B would have invested in that bond in 2013, rather than investing in the Skandia 
accounts. I will return to how I think EIS should put this right.
Following my second provisional decision, EIS highlighted that of the sum invested in 2013, 
£69,013 was in relation to transfers of existing ISAs. They said that it was not their practice 
to remove funds from tax-efficient investments to put them elsewhere so their 
recommendation would have been to consolidate these within an equivalent tax wrapper.
In terms of what Mr F and Ms B wanted to do when they approached EIS in 2013, 
throughout their complaint, they have referred to wanting to top up the Scottish Widows bond 
with Mr Fs retirement funds of around £160,000.
It is my opinion that Mr F and Ms B wanted to use the full amount of £169,013 to top up their 
Scottish Widows bond. I acknowledge that EIS have said that their practice was not to 
recommend that £69,013 be taken from tax-efficient wrappers and in a different situation I 
would agree. But in this case, Mr F and Ms B had clear intentions to use their available funds 
to top up their Scottish Widows bond. From what they have said, on balance I consider they 
were willing to include existing ISA funds to do this, even if it meant that those funds were 
coming out of tax-efficient wrappers.
The only reason that Mr F and Ms B didnt top up the Scottish Widows bond was because 
they were told that it was closed. Had they been provided with the correct information, I 
believe they would have chosen to invest the full amount of £169,013 into the Scottish 
Widows bond, even if EIS had highlighted the loss of the ISA wrapper for some of their 
funds.
In their submission following the second provisional decision, Mr F and Ms B have confirmed 
that the actual amount invested was in excess of £160,000 and I am going to continue to use 
the £169,013 as the amount for the redress calculation.The initial fee charged by EIS in 2013
In their submission to the service, Mr F and Ms B have said that they were charged 
£5,070.39 in relation to the advice to invest in the Skandia accounts. They said that this 
wouldnt have been charged if theyd invested in the Scottish Widows bond because that 
was simply a top up investment. They said that they had received information from the 
business that they could have done this direct with Scottish Widows.
I have reviewed this information and I have to conclude that had Mr F and Ms B received 
correct information about the Scottish Widows bond, they would have topped up their 
investment direct with Scottish Widows and this amount would not have been charged. I can 
see that EIS emailed Mr F in September 2020 and stated that he could top up the Scottish 
Widows bond with a further investment if he didnt want advice. It seems to me more likely 
than not that Mr B and Ms F would not have required advice for this transaction. Because 
the £5,070.39 charge related to advice, I agree with Mr B and Ms F that the redress 
calculations should assume that if they had topped up the Scottish Widows bond, they would 
not have incurred this charge. 
In terms of how to compensate for this £5,070.39 initial fee, Mr B and Ms F are concerned 
that my proposal in my recent provisional decision does not fairly do this. To clarify, the 
£5,070.39 fee was deducted from the money paid into the Skandia accounts in 2013 before 
units were purchased. This means that the total value of the Skandia accounts, and the 
value of these investments when subsequently changed from February 2020, is lower than if 
the £5,070.39 had not been deducted in 2013.
In my redress award, I am directing EIS to calculate the value of the 2013 investment if it 
had been made into the Scottish Widows bond, without the deduction of the £5,070.39 initial 
fee. That means that the redress calculation assumes that the full £169,013 would have 
been invested into the Scottish Widows bond. In contrast, the Skandia accounts had 
£169,013 minus £5,070.39 invested into them. When the Scottish Widow bond value (which 
is referred to as the fair value below) is compared to the actual value of the investment that 
went into the Skandia accounts, the difference between the two reflects the fact that the 
actual value is lower as a result of the £5,070.39 fee deduction having been applied to the 
investment amount at outset. For this reason, I consider the redress fairly compensates Mr B 
and Ms F for the £5,070.39 fee that was applied to the monies invested in the Skandia 
accounts. It reflects the fact that investing in the Scottish Widows bond wouldnt have 
incurred this fee.
Mr F and Ms B paid for an ongoing service but had not received an annual review of their 
investments
In their submission, Mr F and Ms B say that they had paid for ongoing servicing of their 
investments and did not receive annual reviews. They have also said that had they topped 
up their Scottish Widows bond directly, they would not have signed up for ongoing servicing.
EIS upheld this part of the complaint in the final response that it sent to Mr F and Ms B.
In their submission to the service, EIS have said that they were in touch with Mr F and Ms B 
on multiple occasions during the period of their investments and issued valuations and 
undertook instructions. EIS said that the adviser visited them at home in 2017 and 
telephoned them on several occasions.EIS have asked why the investigator attached penalty interest of 8% simple per annum to 
the amount that was taken in fees and they are unclear why this rate should apply. EIS have 
said that a more appropriate rate of Bank of England base + 1% should apply.
EIS have asked me to consider my opinion in light of what they said they have said in their 
submission. Im unclear what part of the above EIS wish me to reconsider but I will answer 
both parts.
If a consumer has been deprived of funds, then the service will generally ask a business to 
pay simple interest at 8% per annum. In this case, Mr F and Ms B have paid for a service 
that they didnt get and have been deprived of the use of those funds.
EIS has said that they were in contact with Mr F and Ms B on multiple occasions during their 
investments. If I assume that EIS think that this was what Mr F and Ms B paid for via their 
ongoing service charge, then I disagree. 
EIS issued Mr F and Ms B with a brochure describing their services. Under the section 
Ongoing Service, it says:
We can review your plan and recommend any changes 
We will contact you at least annually to confirm ongoing suitability where appropriate 
We will provide regular updates and offer detailed reviews to take account of 
changes to your circumstances 
We will revise and update your plans accordingly 
I can see from the file that EIS wrote to Mr F and Ms B in 2015, 2017 and again in 2020. The 
only letter that is titled annual review is the 2020 letter. Im not convinced that the 2015 and 
2017 letters were the results of a full annual review.
From what I have seen, Mr F and Ms B paid for a service that they didnt receive, and I think 
that EIS have acted unfairly. I am going to ask EIS to compensate Mr F and Ms B for these 
errors.
Mr F has pointed out in his submission that he believes EIS have mis-calculated the fees 
due in their offer of redress. Mr F believes that the amount of £5,761.38 is incorrect as it 
doesnt include periods where charges were levied. In particular having looked at the 
statements, Mr F has said that EIS did not include in its offer the fees that were charged 
from July 2013 to April 2014, and most of January/February 2020 (after this point, Mr F says 
he was satisfied with the regular advice received). He has also said that EIS has failed to 
provide an explanation for how it arrived at the figure that it did, despite being asked to do 
so.  
Mr F has suggested that the amount is around £6,700, and he can provide a detailed 
breakdown to evidence this figure. Overall, balancing the parties submissions on this 
subject, my conclusion is that it is reasonable to conclude that Mr Fs calculations are 
accurate, and so EIS should be paying Mr F and Ms B a sum of around £6,700 plus interest 
in respect of the ongoing service fees. This should cover the period from July 2013 to 
February 2020.
In its response to my second provisional decision, EIS have stated that this amount, 
including interest, is £10,400.19. As I explain at the end of this decision, EIS should include 
details of its calculations, including this one, in a clear and simple format when making 
payment to Mr F and Ms B.Mr F and Ms B had concerns about the performance of their investments 
This part of Mr F and Ms Bs complaint is linked to the fact that they were provided with an 
alternative recommendation which has not performed as well as the bond that they wished to 
top up and invest.
In Mr F and Ms Bs submission, they have said that they were concerned at the performance 
of their investments and made EIS aware. Mr F says that he contacted EIS on a number of 
occasions between 2014 and 2015 and again in 2020. 
Performance on its own is not something that the service will look at but as I believe that Mr 
F and Ms B were provided with incorrect information, I think this affected where they 
invested their money in 2013, and this is something that the service can look at.
Mr F and Ms B were provided with recommendations that were based on the adviser 
believing that the bond was not open. This resulted in the adviser providing 
recommendations on alternative investments. If Mr F and Ms B had been given correct 
information about the Scottish Widows bond, my view is that they would have invested in 
that in 2013, rather than in the Skandia accounts. I believe that Mr F and Ms B may have 
been financially disadvantaged by this and I am going to ask EIS to calculate the 
performance of the recommended investments against the bond that Mr F and Ms B wanted 
to invest in.
In terms of the dates that EIS should use for these calculations, Mr F has suggested up to 
February 2020 as they were happy with what has happened since they switched to the 
Vanguard fund at this point and only want to compare the Scottish Widows bond against 
this.
I disagreed on this point  I didnt think that this represented fair compensation to Mr F and 
Ms B. They only invested in the Vanguard fund as they received incorrect information from 
the adviser about their ability to top up the Scottish Widows bond.
Mr F and Ms B reiterated the points that they made in relation to the switched investments in 
February 2020 and were happy with the end date for comparison being February 2020.
I have considered Mr F and Ms Bs comments. When the service looks at redress 
calculations, the fundamental principle is to put the consumer back in the position they would 
have been in if the business had not been at fault.
In this case, if EIS had given accurate information in 2013, Mr F and Ms B would have 
invested in the Scottish Widows bond. The consequence of EIS giving incorrect info in 2013 
is that Mr F and Ms B invested into the Creation ISAs. 
I know that Mr F and Ms B were unhappy with the performance of the Creation investments, 
and in Feb 2020 they received advice to switch to Vanguard and have been happy with how 
Vanguard has performed since then. But, to determine fair redress here, I need to consider 
whether, if Mr F and Ms B had not been given incorrect information in 2013, and had 
therefore invested in the Scottish Widows bond, would they have moved that money in 
February 2020 to Vanguard?
I think thats unlikely and I need to look at this on the balance of probabilities. It seems to me 
that the only reason Mr F and Ms B were exploring switching their money out of Creation in 
2020 was because they were unhappy with its performance.If they were invested in the Scottish Widows bond from 2013, I dont see persuasive 
evidence that in Feb 2020, they would have chosen to move that money to Vanguard. Within 
their latest submissions, Mr F and Ms B have suggested that they would have moved their 
funds to Vanguard in 2020, even if those funds were within the Scottish Widows bond. But 
my own view is that that is unlikely. I think they only became aware of Vanguard because of 
the poor performance of Creation. I suspect that the conversations they had about poor 
performance in 2020 with the adviser would not have happened if theyd been in the Scottish 
Widows bond at that time. In that scenario, more likely I think theyd still be invested in the 
Scottish Widows bond now.
In the redress calculation at the end of the decision, I am asking EIS to use the date of 
settlement as the end date.
Trouble and Upset compensation amount 
The investigator awarded £200 for the trouble and upset that the complaint had caused. This 
was also suggested by EIS in their submission to the service.
Mr F and Ms B say that this does not constitute fair compensation and believe that the 
service should award compensation in line with published guidance. Mr F and Ms B believe 
that an award within the severe category would be more appropriate.
I have considered this carefully and I have no doubt that the complaint has caused Mr F and 
Ms B considerable stress. Mr F has provided information to me on how this has affected him, 
and I sympathise with what he has said. I have found his testimony persuasive.
Having considered the information available to me, I think a total award of £750 is 
appropriate in the circumstances and I ask that EIS pay this to Mr F and Ms B.
I know that Mr F and Ms B continue to be disappointed with this amount and have said that 
the examples on our website strongly suggest a significantly greater amount of 
compensation is justified. I have considered this and the service looks at all complaints on its 
own merits. I feel that a total amount of £750 is fair in light of the circumstances of the 
complaint.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr F 
and Ms B as close to the position they would now be in if EIS had provided them with 
accurate information in 2013.
I consider that if Mr F and Ms B had been given accurate information then they would have 
increased their investment in the Scottish Widows bond in 2013. They would have invested 
£169,013 into that bond, instead of investing this sum split between the Skandia accounts 
(the Collective Investment Account, two new ISAs, and an ISA transfer). The Scottish 
Widows Bond is therefore the benchmark which I require to be used in the redress outlined 
below.
What must EIS do?
To compensate Mr F and Ms B fairly, EIS must:
Compare the performance of the Skandia investments (and any subsequent 
investments that this money was switched into) with that of the benchmark shown below (£169,013 into the Scottish Widows bond) and pay Mr F and Ms B the 
difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investments. If the actual 
value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Pay Mr F and Ms B £750 for unnecessary distress caused to them.
Repay the regular advisers fees that Mr F and Ms B have calculated to be around 
£6,700, covering the period from July 2013 to February 2020. To these should be 
added simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the fees were paid to the date of 
the settlement. 
I am not requiring EIS to directly repay Mr F and Ms B the £5,070.39 initial advice fee 
because the fair value should be calculated assuming that the full £169,013 was invested 
into the Scottish Widows bond. That is, it assumes that the initial advice fee would not have 
been deducted from the £169,013 amount before it purchased units in the Scottish Widows 
bond. When the fair value is compared to the actual value, this will then take into account 
that the actual value includes the effect of the payment of the £5,070.39 fee when the 
Skandia investments occurred.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Skandia 
accountsStill exists Scottish Widows 
bondDate of 
investment 
in Skandia 
accountsDate of 
settlement Not applicable 
(because the 
calculation end 
date is the 
date of 
settlement)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment of £169,013 (without any deduction for an advice fee) would 
have been worth at the end date had it produced a return using the Scottish Widows bond 
as a benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return 
in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if EIS totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that EIS Financial Services Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
EIS should provide details of its calculation to Mr F and Ms B in a clear, simple format.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman