DRN-1650976
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Ageas Insurance Limited declined their claim under their 
furniture protection warranty and they were mis-sold the warranty. My references to Ageas 
include its agents.
Mr and Mrs T will note that my decision is about a different business than referred to by our 
investigator. That business was acting on behalf of Ageas and Ageas is the right business 
for my decision to be about. The change of business hasnt made any difference to the 
outcome of my decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mr T bought a leather chair in 2016. They said the salesman at the store 
recommended they buy a furniture protection warranty which would cover any accident or 
repair needed to the chair regardless of the cause. Mr and Mrs T bought the warranty.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs T claimed on the warranty. Theyd seen a mark on the chair the week 
before and unsuccessfully tried to polish it out. A technician inspected the chair for Ageas 
and made a report. 
Ageas declined the claim. It said the information in the technicians report showed the mark 
was caused by wear and tear which the warranty didnt cover. It also said under the warranty 
terms Mr and Mrs T should have reported the damage within 7 working days of the incident 
causing the mark.
Mr and Mrs T complained to us. They said the technician told them the mark wasnt in a 
normal wear and tear area but Ageas wouldnt repair as they didnt know how the mark 
happened and they hadnt reported immediately. Mr and Mrs T say they claimed as soon as 
possible and couldnt say how the mark happened as a throw usually covered the chair, but 
it could have been caused by one of their grandchildren or their dog.
Mr and Mrs T also said they only got the warranty document when they claimed so they 
wouldnt have known what the terms said and understood from the salesman they were 
covered for all matters. They think the warranty was mis-sold and they want Ageas to accept 
the claim and repair, or pay for the repair of, the chair.
Our investigator said Ageas had fairly declined the claim and the complaint about the mis-
sale would need to be looked at separately.
Mr and Mrs T disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They said the warranty was a 
waste of money and Ageas should ensure that whoever sells the warranty know the terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is just about whether Ageas fairly and reasonably declined the claim. Mr and 
Mrs T also raised the issue of mis-sale with us but I dont have any evidence to support that 
they complained to the seller as Ageas didnt address the mis-sale complaint in its final 
response letter. If Mr and Mrs T wish to pursue their mis-sale complaint the warranty sets out 
what they need to do. 
If Mr and Mrs Ts mis-sale complaint remains in dispute then they can ultimately make a 
separate complaint to us. Its fair for me to tell them that even if we agreed the warranty had 
been mis-sold its likely we would say they should get a premium refund, rather than the 
relevant business pay for the repair of the chair. Thats because as Mr and Mrs T say they 
wouldnt have bought the warranty if theyd known about the exclusions they would never 
have paid the premium but also they would never have been covered by the warranty.
I dont uphold the complaint about the claim. I think Ageas fairly and reasonably declined the 
claim and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ts warranty covers stains on leather furniture which are sudden and accidental 
from specified substances which are listed in the warranty. The warranty also covers 
accidental damage caused by rips, tears, burns, scuffs, scratches and punctures.
The warranty is clear it doesnt cover stains and damage that is consistent with wear and 
tear or anything that happens gradually.
The technicians report says: Mr and Mrs T reported colour loss on the seat and an arm of 
the chair; he carried out a rub test and no colour came off the leather, he explained to Mr 
and Mrs T that colour loss due to wear and tear wasnt cover; his opinion was the colour loss 
wasnt caused by an accident.
Im satisfied that Ageas reasonably relied on the experts opinion in the report that the mark 
was caused by wear and tear, which isnt covered by the warranty. Theres no expert 
evidence to support Mr and Mrs Ts suggestion that the colour loss was caused by a sudden 
accidental event. So Ageas fairly declined the claim. 
Ageas point about making a claim within 7 working days isnt relevant. From the information 
I have Mr and Mrs T claimed within that timescale from when they noticed the mark and 
there was no known incident that caused the colour loss. The important point is the expert 
evidence is the mark was due to wear and tear, which isnt covered.
Mr and Mrs T say they didnt receive the warranty document before they made a claim but 
that doesnt make a difference to my decision about the claim. If theyd seen the terms 
before the claim and wanted to buy another warranty in my experience its highly unlikely 
they would have been able to buy such a warranty that covered them for a mark due to wear 
and tear.
Ageas doesnt have to repair, or pay for the repair of, the chair
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint about the decline of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Nicola SiskOmbudsman