DRN-3742182
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly lodged a marker against him with a fraud 
prevention agency.
What happened
Mr W held an account with HSBC some years ago when he was still at school. HSBC noted 
that a cheque had been paid into his account which appeared to be unusual as it was for 
many thousands of pounds. The cheque was deposited in a branch local to Mr Ws address 
at the time. 
It turned out that the cheque was counterfeit and was returned unpaid which meant that Mr 
Ws account was never credited with the funds. HSBC asked Mr W to speak with them about 
it and he briefly visited his local branch. HSBCs records show that when they tried to 
discuss the background to the cheque, Mr W told them he had to return to lessons and 
would speak with HSBC at a later time. HSBC have no further record of Mr W contacting 
them about the cheque.
As a result, HSBC closed the account and lodged a marker against him with CIFAS, who are 
a fraud prevention agency. The marker was in place from around 2017 and Mr W has asked 
for it to be removed because hes told our service that he knows nothing about the fraudulent 
cheque that was deposited into his account and hes having difficulties opening a bank 
account.
Mr Ws complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who thought that HSBC hadnt 
met the standards required before lodging a marker and recommended that it be removed, 
and that HSBC make a payment of £200 to Mr W.
Mr W accepted the recommendations, but HSBC didnt, they maintained there was no 
plausible reason for a cheque to be sent to a named account unless (here Mr W) was going 
to access it or had given someone else access to his account. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIFAS have strict standards before a marker can be lodged and the principal pillars are:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime has 
been committed or attempted.
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
HSBC had identified that a counterfeit cheque had been paid into Mr Ws account and based 
on this they had sufficient cause to believe a financial crime had been committed. As such 
Im satisfied they met the requirements of the first pillar.
The second pillar requires HSBC to gather sufficient evidence to point to Mr Ws likely 
involvement in the receipt and use of the funds. Its not sufficient just to say that the 
circumstances were suspicious  there must be some evidence that ties Mr W to the 
fraudulent funds.
Here Id agree that circumstances were suspicious because his account received a cheque 
that was in Mr Ws name, deposited in a branch close to his address at the time. Also, Mr W 
failed to provide any response to HSBC after they asked him about the cheque. On the face 
of it there doesnt seem much point in trying to pay a fraudulent cheque into an account 
without some way to get the money out. Either by Mr W himself withdrawing it or allowing 
another person to take the funds. 
What happened here was that the cheque was returned unpaid because it was believed 
counterfeit. There was no opportunity to withdraw the cash and the evidence doesnt show 
that Mr W was involved, it only suggests it from the overall circumstances. I can see why 
HSBC were suspicious and lodged the marker because Mr W had also failed to return to the 
branch or contact them after confirming hed return.
He later told me that he knew nothing about it and didnt return to the bank because he 
rarely went anywhere apart from school and home. He also said because he knew nothing 
about it, and it wasnt his, he didnt give it much more thought. He now realises he should 
have dealt with HSBC at the time.
Overall, I think the lack of evidence that shows Mr W had an active role in this means that 
HSBC didnt meet the standards required by CIFAS. I dont think its sufficient to base a 
marker on the receipt of the cheque without evidence that he was aware of it. An account 
holder (here Mr W) has no control over what is received into their account. I accept that 
other factors pointed towards Mr W having some knowledge of it, but without that additional 
evidence, the lodgement of the marker was unsubstantiated. Ive also thought about the age 
of Mr W who was around 16 at the time the incident happened, so I think it fair to say he 
wasnt experienced in banking matters and the implication of ignoring HSBCs legitimate 
questions.
Based on what had happened I think HSBC were well within their rights to close the account, 
but I dont think they met the appropriate standards required by CIFAS. 
Putting things right
The marker has now been in place about five years and should now be removed. Also 
HSBC should pay Mr W £200 for the impact of not being able to open bank accounts.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and theyre 
instructed to settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman