DRN-3556210
The complaint
Mr T complains because ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERGO) hasnt paid claims he 
made under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T held a 5 star branded travel insurance policy, provided by ERGO. Mr T travelled
abroad in February 2020. During his trip, he missed a flight connection. He also experienced
a further delay to a domestic flight abroad. Mr T was due to return to the UK on 31 March
2020 but his original flight was cancelled due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19
and Mr T had to pay for a new flight to return home on the same day, to a different airport.
Mr T made claims under his policy with ERGO for expenses associated with these incidents.
ERGO assessed all the claims under the Travel delay and disruption section of Mr Ts
policy and said none of the claims were covered for various reasons. Mr T felt his claim for
his cancelled return flight should have been considered under the Curtailment section of his
policy and, unhappy, he complained to ERGO before bringing the matter to the attention of
our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think ERGO had
acted unfairly. Mr T didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so his complaint was referred 
to me. I made my provisional decision about Mr Ts complaint earlier this month. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers should 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ts 
complaint. 
No insurance policy covers every situation  regardless of how the policy is branded.
Insurers are entitled to decide what level of risk they are prepared to accept in return for the
premium set, and the limits of ERGOs responsibilities to Mr T are set out in the terms and
conditions of his insurance contract.
I dont think the costs which Mr T is claiming for relating to his missed flight connection
and/or his domestic flight delay are covered under the terms and conditions of Section 7 -
Travel delay and disruption of his policy. I dont think Part A of this section applies to the
circumstances of these two claims, and part B only provides cover for additional
accommodation and travel expenses  which isnt what Mr T is claiming for.
ERGO also assessed Mr Ts claim for his cancelled return flight under Section 7. I dont think
this was correct. However, I dont think Mr Ts claim is covered under Section 6 -
Curtailment either. This is because Section 6 only provides cover if a trip is cut short for one
of a list of specific, insured reasons which are set out in the policy. Based on the information
which is available to me, Mr T didnt return to the UK before his scheduled return date. And,
even if he did, he didnt do so for one of the listed, insured reasons set out in Section 6.
I dont think the information which ERGO provided to Mr T while he was abroad was in any
way unclear. ERGO said it was unable to guarantee cover for any claim until all the
necessary documents were received and assessed. I dont think its reasonable to conclude
from this statement that a claim would be paid, and I wouldnt generally expect a travel
insurer to be able to confirm cover in such circumstances without having all the details of
what happened and what actual costs were being claimed for. And, even if ERGO had given
Mr T incorrect information about the validity of his claim, this wouldnt automatically mean
that it would be fair and reasonable for ERGO to accept his claim outside of a strict
interpretation of the policy terms and conditions anyway.
However, I note that under Section 12  Catastrophe of Mr Ts policy, ERGO will pay for the
following:
Reasonable additional accommodation and travel expenses necessarily incurred to
return to Your home  in the event that Your trip is disrupted by a Catastrophe.
The policy defines Catastrophe to include a medical epidemic. For the avoidance of doubt, I
think a pandemic is an epidemic on a larger scale. Covid-19 was declared a pandemic by
the World Health Organisation on 11 March 2020 and Im satisfied its therefore fair and
reasonable to consider Covid-19 as falling within the policy definition of Catastrophe. So, I
think Mr Ts claim relating to his cancelled return flight is covered under Section 12.
Mr T accepted my provisional decision. ERGO didnt respond by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or additional submissions, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
ERGO Reiseversicherung AG should put things right by paying Mr Ts claim relating to his 
cancelled return flight under Section 12 of his policy. Interest should be added, at 8% simple 
per annum from the date of the claim until the date the settlement is paid1. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part, and I direct ERGO 
Reiseversicherung AG to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
1 If ERGO Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr T how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr T a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 