DRN-3492784
The complaint
Mr C makes a number of complaints about The Co-operative Bank Plc following a telephone 
call he made to it in August 2021.
What happened
Mr C says he called The Co-op on 18 August 2021 to cancel his account card due to fraud. 
He says he was waiting for about one and a half hours to speak to it and was then given an 
incorrect e-mail address for raising a complaint. Mr C says he was caused stress as a result 
of what took place and says his call should have been answered as it was made before The 
Co-op closed. Mr C would like compensation for the incorrect information and for his call 
costs and says his complaint wasnt recorded on The Co-ops systems.
The Co-op has apologised to Mr C for the call waiting times and for making a mistake with 
the e-mail. It says calls to it are normally free and says it makes clear on the call its opening 
times. The Co-op says it also directs customers to press one on the call to report lost 
account cards or fraud which is what it says Mr C did. It says Mr C did not call it about fraud 
but about an account reward he says he didnt receive. The Co-op says its agent did make a 
note of the call on Mr Cs account notes.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
thought Mr C was concerned about fraud and thought something had clearly gone wrong. 
The investigator recommended The Co-op pay £50 compensation.
The Co-op provided a copy of the telephone call and says it was Mr Cs choice to remain on 
the call by pressing one to speak to its fraud department. It says the e-mail mistake resulted 
in a very short delay of about eight minutes.
The investigator re-considered the complaint accepting the call may not have been about a 
potential fraud and recommended £25 compensation. The investigator didnt think The Co-
op was sympathetic to Mr Cs position.
My provisional decision
I came to the provisional view that The Co-op had dealt fairly with this complaint by 
apologising to Mr C for the call wait times and for the incorrect e-mail information. I didnt 
think provisionally either of those two issues justified compensation.
I appreciated there may have been some confusion about why Mr C called The Co-op in the 
first place. I listened to Mr Cs initial call to us and was satisfied that the complaint summary 
was read back to Mr C which including details about his stress caused by the call wait times 
when reporting a fraud. I didnt think Mr C commented on that summary and I was satisfied 
that Mr C was not calling The Co-op to report a fraud but was calling it about an account 
reward issue.
I said there is no question here that during that first telephone call between the parties Mr C 
was given an incorrect e-mail address by The Co-op. The address missed out one digit and I 
accepted from listening to the call that Mr C raised that point and thought he realised the 
address was incorrect. I appreciated Mr Cs frustration in those circumstances but could see 
he was able to send the complaint to the correct e-mail address within minutes of the 
mistake. I didnt think that mistake had a significant impact on Mr C and thought The Cop-op 
had fairly apologised for that mistake. It follows that I didnt think that mistake resulted in any 
real inconvenience or financial loss to Mr C and I didnt think it justified compensation.
The second main part of Mr Cs complaint is the call wait times and that he says The Co-op 
should answer a call made before its closing time. I said I am sure Mr C appreciates that we 
are not The Co-ops regulator and so it wasnt our role to direct it on such matters and tell it 
what its policy should be on that issue. I thought it likely that it was made clear on the call 
between the parties that if Mr C was reporting a lost card or fraud then he should press one 
which I thought he did. I made clear that I didnt think Mr C was reporting such matters and 
thought it was his choice to press one and stay on hold in circumstances where he ought 
reasonably to have known that wasnt why he was calling. I accepted Mr Cs frustration in 
waiting for what I thought was about 40 minutes but also thought it was his choice to wait to 
speak to the fraud department which meant a further wait.
 I explained that Mr C also complained that The Co-op agent on that first call didnt make a 
note of his call and complaint. I looked at The Co-ops records and I was satisfied a note was 
made on 18 August 2021. I appreciated the investigator said that The Co-op didnt deal 
sympathetically with that call. But I disagreed and was satisfied that call handler explained 
that Mr C was speaking to a fraud team and that he couldnt help Mr C with an issue about 
account benefits.
Overall, my provisional view was that The Co-op dealt fairly with this complaint by 
apologising for the call wait times and for the incorrect information. I didnt think those issues 
justified compensation for the reasons I explained and was satisfied that a large part of the 
call wait time was caused by Mr C deciding to speak to the fraud team. 
Mr C doesnt accept my provisional view and says in summary that his complaint wasnt 
about fraud and says the Co-op didnt leave a record of his call conversation. He says he 
clicked one as it cant be right for customers calls to be ended in this way and also says he 
was given an incorrect e-mail address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
I accept Mr C was not calling about a fraud and have made clear where I think the confusion 
came from. I also would have expected Mr C to have clarified his complaint when it was read 
back to him. I have made clear that Im satisfied that having looked at The Co-ops records 
that there is a record of Mr C calling it and that a complaint would be raised. Im satisfied Mr 
C called the fraud department despite knowing he was not calling about a fraud and so I 
wouldnt have expected The Co-ops fraud team to have recorded further details about the 
nature of the call, namely a complaint about account rewards.
I appreciate Mr C says that once a caller has made a call to The Co-op then that call should 
be answered. We are not The Co-ops regulator and its not our role to direct it about such 
operational matters or direct that it has sufficient staff to answer such calls. I have made 
clear that Im satisfied that a large part of the wait time here was caused by Mr C deciding to continue the call by speaking to a fraud team when he knew that he was not reporting such 
fraud matters.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman