DRN-1783601
The complaint
Miss I says Barclays Bank plc, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy on a credit card taken out in 2000.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. Barclays disagreed so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Is case.
I think this complaint should be upheld and Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
This policy was taken out in branch and both parties agree this was an advised sale. This 
means Barclays had to advise Miss I with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
As the policy was taken out in store, I dont know for sure what was said to Miss I. So, I
havent seen any evidence to show Barclays took account of Miss Is circumstances when 
recommending the PPI to her. 
The policy costed £0.75 per £100 Miss I owed on her credit card per month. And, upon a
successful claim, the policy wouldve paid 10% of her outstanding balance on the card each
month for up to 12 months.
Miss I as she has told us that she wouldve received at least 12-months full sick pay from her 
employer at the time and wouldve been entitled to redundancy pay. Barclays have disputed 
this on the basis that Miss I has been inconsistent with the sick pay evidence she has 
supplied, so it says this cant be relied upon. But the policy was sold a long time ago and 
Miss I has explained that she was unsure what her sick pay was when she was first asked 
about it. But since then Miss I says she has asked colleagues who works in a different 
branch of the same company brand, and now has more reliable information about her sick 
pay from the time. And from what we know about Miss Is employer and other similar 
employer, I think its likely Miss I was entitled to the generous level of sick pay she now says 
she wouldve had.
Based on Miss Is circumstances at the time, I dont think this Barclays shouldve 
recommended this policy to her. I say this because Miss I was entitled to generous sick pay 
and redundancy pay from her employer, which wouldve covered her in the event she was 
suddenly unable to work. So, I think Miss I has lost out as a result of what Barclays has done 
wrong.
Putting things right
Barclays should put Miss I in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A. Barclays should find out how much Miss I would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums 
added, as well as any interest charged on those. It should also remove any charges that 
were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Miss I owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss I made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss I would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when Barclays works out what Miss I would have owed each month without PPI  
she paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss I paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss I would have owed Barclays something on her Barclays card. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
D. Barclays should tell Miss I what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Miss I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold this complaint and instruct Barclays Bank plc to 
compensate Miss I as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman