DRN-3664789
The complaint
Miss V complains that Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent her money on a high cost loan that
she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Lendable provided Miss V with a loan on 2 March 2019 for £10,000, repayable over 60
months at the monthly rate of around £315. She struggled to make the payments towards
the loan and says she had to cut back on essentials to do so. As I understand it she couldnt
keep up the repayments and had to make a repayment plan with Lendable. She complained
to Lendable that the loan was unaffordable to her.
Lendable said it had carried out verification checks, including obtaining payslips, details of
Miss Vs tax credits, a recent bank statement and a credit check. It assessed that the loan
was affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our adjudicator said Miss V had enough disposable
income to afford the loan, and there was nothing in her credit check to indicate otherwise.
Miss V disagreed, pointing out that she was using her overdraft on a monthly basis to pay for
her credit card debt. At the time when she applied for the loan she had nearly £10,000
outstanding debt including her overdraft. Also her bank statement shows gambling
transactions.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think Lendable had made a fair lending 
decision, as the checks carried out were a strong indication that Miss V couldnt afford the 
loan. This was because of her very high degree of credit commitments, her overdraft, her 
gambling payments, and the small amount of disposable income she had left at the end of 
each month.
Miss V didnt respond, so I assume she accepts my provisional findings. Lendable said it had 
nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
V would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss V would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Lendable to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Vs ability to make the repayments under the 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Lendable had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Lendable had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss V undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss V. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
This loan required a substantial commitment from Miss V over a long period, on a 
relatively low income. So Lendable needed to carry out a thorough financial assessment 
of her ability to repay the loan.
Ive seen no details about what the loan was intended for. But its clear that the whole 
amount was advanced to Miss V, and Lendables calculations took into account that 
she wouldnt be repaying any of her existing credit.
On review of the credit report, Miss V had four credit cards, with a total debt on them of over
£8,800. All four credit cards were close to their respective limits, although not over and not
missing any payments. Her bank account was overdrawn by up to £480 for February 2019.
She also had a loan that was in default, of around £1,200.For the credit card debt I see Lendable has allowed 3% of the outstanding balances to be 
repaid. I think its reasonable to allow for 5% of the then balances to be repaid each month, 
otherwise the debt would only go down by small amounts each month when interest is 
added, and this would assume the cards arent being used which doesnt appear to be the 
case here. Also this may be a requirement of the credit card company. And from reviewing 
her bank statements Miss V did appear to be paying around 5% on the cards. In respect of 
the defaulted loan, no payments were being made but as it was active I think it reasonable 
to also allow 5% payments on this.
I calculate that Miss V would have had a liability of around £500 a month on her credit 
cards/loans. Her income was assessed at £1,690 a month, including benefits and tax 
credits. Adding the loan instalments to her credit commitments would have meant she was 
spending about 48% of her income on those commitments. This is very high, and a strong 
indication that Miss V couldnt afford the loan. I would point out that Lendable calculated 
this as 36.5%, based on 3% payments for her credit cards, but still a high figure.
Miss V has sent us her bank statement for the month before the application, which 
Lendable saw. I havent seen any calculations from Lendable regarding what it assessed 
as her living expenses. As a minimum ONS (Office for National Statistics) data puts this 
figure at 35% of the customers income  about £590 in Miss Vs case. Adding an 
allowance for two children at £80 each would mean that her total debt would be £750 + 
£500 + £314, leaving Miss V with about £156 disposable income which I think is too low. 
This doesnt include overdraft fees or repayments.
Even accepting these figures could fluctuate, two further things appear from Miss Vs bank 
statement, firstly that she was persistently being charged daily overdraft fees, which 
indicates that she didnt have an authorised overdraft. Secondly, on this statement she 
had gambling transactions of £160. I dont know if this was a regular payment, as I havent 
seen any other bank statements.
I think that the checks Lendable carried out were proportionate. But, as it didnt choose to 
carry out any further checks, I think they were a strong indication that Miss V couldnt afford 
the loan. This was because of her very high degree of credit commitments, her overdraft, 
her gambling payments, and the small amount of disposable income she had left at the end 
of each month.
I dont think Lendable made a fair lending decision.
As neither party has made any further comments, I remain persuaded that my provisional 
findings are correct. Those findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Miss V has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Lendable should refund all interest 
and charges as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Miss V as payments towards the capital amount.
If Miss V has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.But if theres still an outstanding balance, Lendable should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss V.
Remove any adverse information where appropriate about the loan from Miss Vs
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to deduct tax from this interest. lt should give
Miss V a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lendable Ltd to provide the remedy set out
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman