DRN-4016602
The complaint
Mr H complains about Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NVs decision to void his commercial 
landlords insurance policy and refuse to pay the claim.
References to Accelerant include its agents.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
In April 2022, there was a fire which caused extensive damage to a commercial property 
made up of three units insured by Mr H with Accelerant. Mr H made a claim on his policy.
Accelerant carried out some initial inspections at Mr Hs property. Following this, Accelerant 
wrote to Mr H in May 2022 about some concerns it had. This was due to a number of 
unsatisfied and satisfied County Court Judgments (CCJs) relating to Mr H and a company 
which he was a director of. At the time the policy was taken out by Mr H in November 2021, 
Accelerant said six CCJs werent disclosed to it.
Accelerant said under the terms of the policy and relevant law, it was entitled to avoid or 
cancel the policy back to the renewal date. It invited Mr H to provide comments for them to 
consider. Mr H responded to Accelerant to explain the following.
1. Mr H was not aware of the CCJs until 13 May 2022, when Accelerant brought them 
to his attention.
2. In relation to the three outstanding CCJs against him personally - two were now 
satisfied and the other wasnt his responsibility so hed sent the paperwork to show 
this to the party who has the benefit of the CCJ.
3. In relation to the one satisfied and two outstanding CCJs registered against a 
company which hes a director of - two were before he took over control and the most 
recent (August 2021) related to his tenant.
Accelerant provided a copy of a CCJ search for Mr H and the company. This shows:
- All the CCJs against Mr H personally are recorded against him at the home address 
used by him on the policy and registered as his home address since 2013. 
- The latest CCJ recorded against the company was done at a time when Mr Hs 
address was its trading and registered office address as well as Mr H being its 
director. 
So, Accelerant believed Mr H was aware of at least four of the CCJs at the time he took out 
the policy with it in November 2021. Accelerant said these shouldve been disclosed at the 
time. Had he done so, Accelerant wouldnt have offered cover on any terms. So, it was 
entitled to avoid the policy and wouldnt be accepting Mr Hs claim. Accelerant returned all 
premiums paid to Mr H. 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. The Investigator didnt recommend we uphold Mr 
Hs complaint. He said from the information provided by Accelerant Mr H ought to have been 
aware of at least three of the personal CCJs, as they were registered to his personal 
address. And the CCJ from August 2021 against the company he was a director of was also 
registered to his home address. Whilst Mr H says the CCJ against the company should be 
against a different party, the Investigator explained it still shouldve been disclosed by him 
until this is resolved. As the CCJs werent disclosed, and Accelerants underwriting guidance 
is clear it wouldnt have offered cover if it had been given accurate information, the 
Investigator said it had acted in line with the Insurance Act 2015.
Mr H didnt agree with the Investigator and repeated what hed said previously about not 
being aware about the CCJs. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Having done so, I must tell Mr H that I think the Investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
 
Mr H had a commercial policy, which was taken out with Accelerant in November 2021.
Because of this, the relevant law I must consider is the Insurance Act 2015. This places a 
duty of fair presentation on the parties to an insurance contract. This duty is also referred to 
in the policy terms and conditions. The effect of the duty is an insured party is required to 
disclose every circumstance they know, or should have known, which would influence an 
insurer in deciding whether to underwrite a risk and on what terms, including price. 
Accelerant thinks Mr H failed to make a fair presentation of the risk and made whats known 
as a qualifying breach. Under the Insurance Act 2015, a qualifying breach is a breach for 
which the insurer has a remedy against the policyholder because it would either not have 
sold them the policy (which Accelerant says would have happened here) or would have done 
so, but on different terms.
Ive looked at the question relevant to CCJs which Mr H was asked when he took out the 
policy in November 2021. This question is set out below.
Has the Proposer, any Director or Manager of the Proposer (if a company), or any 
partner (if a firm); 
-Ever been declared bankrupt, been the subject of more than one county court 
judgement (CCJ or Scottish equivalent), winding up order, insolvent liquidation or 
administration (voluntary or mandatory) or have made any composition or 
arrangement with creditors or been a director or partner of a company which has 
gone into insolvent liquidation, receivership or administration?'
The answer given by Mr H was No and there was no disclosure of anything related to 
CCJs.So, what I need to decide is whether its more likely Mr H was aware, or should have been 
aware, of the presence of CCJs and disclosed them to Accelerant in November 2021.
Mr H said he wasnt aware of the CCJs. However, by November 2021, I think Mr H wouldve 
been reasonably aware at least three CCJs had been obtained against him personally and 
one CCJ against the company he was the director of. I say this because his home address 
was the address registered against the four above mentioned CCJs. It therefore seems more 
likely to me this was the address used by the claimants and the Court when issuing 
documents related to the proceedings. I also note one of the CCJs was satisfied in 2017 and 
I consider it unlikely to have been satisfied without Mr H being aware of it. Therefore, this is 
information Mr H shouldve made Accelerant aware of when asked about CCJs.
Accelerant has shared with this service an extract from the relevant underwriting guidance 
and confirmed it wouldnt have entered the policy with Mr H under any terms had it known 
the true information about the CCJs. This means Im satisfied it was a qualifying breach. 
The Insurance Act 2015 sets out the actions available if the duty to make a fair presentation 
of the risk to the insurer has been breached. In this situation, Accelerant is entitled to avoid 
the policy (treat the policy as though it never existed) and refuse to deal with any claims. 
This is what it did here. Accelerant says it refunded Mr H the premium, so it doesnt need to 
do anything more.
In summary, Mr H reasonably wouldve been aware of at least four of the CCJs, as Ive 
explained above, and this needed to be disclosed to Accelerant when taking out the policy in 
November 2021. Had this been disclosed, Accelerant wouldnt have offered the commercial 
insurance policy to Mr H. Therefore, I wont be interfering in Accelerants decision to avoid 
Mr Hs policy and decline his claim.
I recognise Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Accelerant  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman