DRN-3996787
The complaint
Mr B complains that RAC Insurance Limited fail to provide cover for his legal costs when he 
made a claim on his motor protection legal insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr B contacted RAC to make a claim on his policy. He said:
Hed received a Notice of Proposed Driving Disqualification. The letter had advised 
that hed been convicted of driving offences in his absence and the court was 
considering whether he should be disqualified from driving.
He had replied to the court and requested a hearing, which was arranged for 19 
March 2022. He had attended on 19 March, but the court was closed. 
Hed emailed the court to confirm he had gone to the court and telephoned to be told 
the court was closed but didnt receive a reply to his email.
On 22 March 2022, the court had disqualified him from driving for six months but on 
23 March the court confirmed the case has been reopened and a hearing would be 
held on 31 March.
He had consulted solicitors, who had advised him there were good prospects of 
success. The solicitors had quoted a fee of £2,000 plus VAT to represent him. He 
provided contact details for the solicitors.
Mr B says RAC never contacted his solicitors, but said he should instruct them and then 
claim his costs back. The solicitors represented him at the hearing and the outcome was 
successful; he wasnt disqualified from driving, but did receive some points on his driving 
licence and a fine.
RAC instructed its panel solicitors who contacted Mr B after the court hearing had taken 
place. He says they confirmed his case did have reasonable prospects of success but 
despite this RAC didnt agree to refund his legal costs, so he complained.
When our investigator considered the complaint their initial view was that RAC hadnt been 
at fault. But after considering further points made by Mr B they concluded that RAC should 
reimburse his costs, together with interest. RAC accepted this and agreed to pay 
compensation of £150 to Mr B. Our investigator thought that was a reasonable way to 
resolve the complaint but Mr B has asked for RAC to repay the fine he was ordered to pay. 
He says if the claim had been dealt with correctly, the fine might have been avoided.
The investigator didnt think the fine had arisen as a result of any failing by RAC and 
remained of the view compensation of £150 was fair.
As no agreement has been reached, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for Mr Bs legal costs were he is faced with suspension or 
disqualification of his driving licence and there are reasonable prospects of avoiding that 
outcome. Its common in legal expenses insurance for policies only to provide cover if the 
case has a reasonable chance of success.
At the time when he made his claim, Mr B provided details of solicitors he had consulted, 
who had advised he did have reasonable prospects of success, in which case he would 
entitled to cover for his legal costs. RAC has now accepted this and agreed to repay his 
costs, together with interest. So thats no longer in dispute. The outstanding issue is whether 
a further payment of £150 compensation is fair, or whether RAC should reimburse Mr B for 
the fine he was ordered to pay.
The policy doesnt cover the payment of fines. But Mr B says he only incurred this fine 
because his claim wasnt dealt with correctly and he shouldnt be out of pocket as a result of 
this. 
Mr Bs argument is that because the claim wasnt dealt with properly, he missed the time 
limit for an appeal  the deadline was 28 days after the hearing in March 2022 and RAC 
didnt appoint the panel solicitors until June. And he says if hed been able to appeal, the 
panel solicitors would have argued that the police had missed the deadline for serving the 
notice of intended prosecution, so theres evidence he could have achieved a better result. 
He thinks the solicitors he instructed wanted to argue the case quickly, for the maximum fee 
and didnt raise the limitation issue, which was only mentioned later on by the panel firm.
Ive considered Mr Bs argument carefully. While its possible he might have achieved a 
better outcome if things had been dealt with differently, Im not persuaded by the evidence 
that this is what would have happened. The panel solicitors only mentioned this some time 
later. I havent seen any detailed legal argument showing this would have been raised at the 
time or, if it had, that it would have been successful. The fact that something might have 
happened doesnt necessarily mean that it would have happened. The solicitors he was 
using could have raised this argument if they felt it had merit. I cant say why it wasnt 
pursued or what would have happened if it had been.
For these reasons, I dont think its fair that RAC should reimburse Mr B in respect if this. But 
I agree his legal costs should be paid, together with interest. And Mr B was upset by the fact 
his claim wasnt covered at the time, and was put to some trouble in having to pursue his 
complaint in order to recover the costs he incurred. So its fair that he should be 
compensated for this and I agree the figure of £150 is a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Its not clear to me whether RAC has now reimbursed the legal costs but if it hasnt done so 
already then they should now be repaid, together with interest.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct RAC Insurance Limited to 
Reimburse the legal costs Mr B incurred together with simple interest at 8% per year 
from the date Mr B paid those costs to the date of settlement*; and
pay compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B.
* If RAC Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman