DRN-4489742
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Allium Money Limited Allium rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mrs A bought solar panels for her home in 2020. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Allium, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentations and/or breach of 
contract of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mrs A alleges that the 
installer misled Mrs A into believing that the panels would be self-funding. Mrs A says given 
her familys financial situation at the time, she wouldnt have taken on a further financial 
obligation and only bought the system because she was led to believe the benefits would 
cover the cost of the loan. 
Mrs As complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were likely mis-represented to Mrs A, and that fair redress would be for the 
loan to be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide 
over the ten-year term of the loan. 
Allium did not agree to our investigators view of the complaint saying the sales documents 
from the time of sale made it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding. They also 
submitted details of the credit checks they carried out to ensure the loan was affordable. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, it was passed to an ombudsman. 
In my provisional decision of 13 November 2023, I set out why I was minded to not 
upholding the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Allium agreed with my provisional decision. 
Mrs A didnt agree for the following reasons: 
Mrs A reiterated that the household income of £50,000 in the loan application form 
was substantially overstated, and if the supplier is allowed to get away with this, then 
theres nothing to deter them from doing it again. 
While she has maintained payments, she struggled with other payments and had to 
borrow to cover her costs. 
The supplier lied about their household income and also lied about covering all their 
electricity bills.
Additionally, she adds she cant provide evidence of the representations the supplier 
made, as he didnt leave the documentation he showed her during the sales meeting.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs A paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Allium agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs A could claim against Allium, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs A and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Allium.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, currently, I do not uphold this complaint.
Documents from the time of sale 
Im satisfied that Mrs A was provided with the sales documents, and it seems likely that she 
wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as she has signed the documents. This includes a 
sales quotation document as well as a credit agreement. 
Mrs A says she was led to believe the system would be self-funding and that the benefit 
received from the system would cover the cost of the finance. The quote provided by the 
supplier formed the basis of the sale, including the meeting where this was discussed, and 
has been signed by Mrs A.
There is a section setting out the estimated benefits Mrs As system will provide over the 
lifetime of the system. This shows that the first-year benefit is £273.93.
Separately, Mrs A signed a credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of the 
system is £8,699, the total cost (including interest of £4,441.60), is £13,440.60. The term of 
the loan is 120 months (i.e. 10 years), and the monthly payments are £111.18. 
So, I think the documents made it clear what benefit Mrs A is likely to receive from the 
system as well as what the system would likely cost. And the documents from the time of 
sale usually reflect the nature of the discussions that consumers had with the supplier at the 
time of sale.
I think its clear that the first-year benefit of £273.93 will only cover just over two monthly 
payments. I therefore think its clear from the documents that the solar panels would not be 
self-funding but instead, its apparent that there would likely be a significant shortfall between 
the annual benefit and cost. 
The table setting out the overall estimated benefit during the lifetime of the system shows it 
wouldnt be until year 24 that the total benefits would exceed the total cost of the system 
(including finance charges). 
Ive gone on to consider the wider circumstances of the case including Mrs As testimony to 
see if there is sufficient evidence (despite the above evidence) to make me satisfied that 
Mrs A was nevertheless mis-led in the way she says she was. Mrs A says during the 
lockdown in 2020 (around the time of sale), her husband had been unable to work, and 
whilst he received some income from being furloughed, didnt have his full income covered. 
She said given her financial situation at the time, if she hadnt been led to believe that the 
system was self-funding, she wouldnt have taken on the loan. I understand our investigator 
found Mrs As testimony to be persuasive. 
Affordability checks 
Mrs A has sent in her bank statements showing what her income was. This loan was in the 
sole name of Mrs A, and while Ive thought about her comments regarding her familys 
overall financial situation, as the loan was in her sole name, any affordability assessments 
and credit checks done by Allium at the time would have focussed mainly on her financial 
situation.
I can see that the loan application records Mrs As monthly income as £1,561.84 and also 
notes her mortgage payment of around £400. Mrs As bank statements show that combined 
with her salary, benefit payment and a regular payment from her husband, the monthly 
credits coming into her account is slightly more than this. Her mortgage is £422 and paid 
from this account. Her account seems to be managed well and runs with a positive balance. 
Allium says it runs an income check using a system that checks if theres any evidence that 
income declared is untrue by checking for any adverse information for example  and her 
check came back clear indicating the loan was affordable. Additionally, Allium says the 
payments on the loan have been maintained with no arrears since then. 
The loan application appears to suggest their household income is around £50,000 but given 
her husbands financial situation at the time, I understand Mrs As concern that her 
household income was unlikely to have been that much at the time. She feels strongly the 
supplier mis-led Allium about the true nature of her financial situation at the time.
I fully appreciate that, during the lockdown, many families suffered a change to their income, 
but affordability simply checks whether a consumer (Mrs A), can afford the loan payments 
and the loan is granted on that basis. And it looks like Mrs A was able to afford the payments 
and has managed her loan account well since then. So, I dont think the loan was 
unaffordable. 
Satisfaction call 
Allium carried out a satisfaction call shortly after the sale and Mrs A raised some concerns 
about the manner in which the system was sold to her. Her unhappiness stemmed from 
issues such as an optional extra not working until she changed internet providers and the 
length of time the scaffolding was up. She said she wanted the panels for a number of 
reasons including environmental reasons and wanting to generate green energy. She says 
she thought there may be some green deal benefits to be gained although accepts the 
supplier didnt mention anything about green deal. 
Mrs A also appeared to understand she would be paying around £4,000 in interest, and her 
monthly cost was over £100 a month. She seemed to be unhappy with the overall sales 
experience although didnt raise any concerns over how the finance itself was arranged 
through Allium. 
Assessment of case 
I have thought carefully about Mrs As testimony and concerns. But it seems to me that while 
some of the application information may have been overstated (such as the household 
income) the loan in reality was affordable, and the payments have been maintained well 
since then. 
The sales documents indicate the benefit and costs were made clear to Mrs A and show a 
significant shortfall between the cost and benefit. If Mrs A had been told something different, 
on being asked to sign these documents, I would have expected her to have questioned 
what she had been told. Ive seen no evidence that she did, so I think that suggests that the 
document most likely did not contradict Mrs As understanding, at that time. 
Mrs A also seems to have been aware of the costs despite not having the credit agreement 
to hand and raised no concerns about the system being self-funding or affordability on the 
call  although I accept the overall sense of the call was that she was dissatisfied with her 
sales experience. 
Overall, while Ive carefully considered Mrs As testimony, I still find the documents from the 
time of sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information she was likely given at the 
time of sale. I think it would have been clear to Mrs A that the system wouldnt be self-
funding, and that it would take a significant number of years before she could recoup her 
initial costs. Im also satisfied that she was aware of the costs associated with the loan as 
well as the benefits. It seems to me that she was likely aware of her own financial 
circumstances and wanted the system for a number of reasons including wanting to produce 
green energy as well as receiving some financial benefit. 
So, on balance, I dont think theres sufficient evidence in this case that the system was 
misrepresented to Mrs A, or that she mainly bought the system for that reason. 
Ive also considered the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between the supplier and Mrs A. The MCS certificate sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2678 kWh a year. And Mrs As most recent meter reading shows her 
system, on average, has generated 2850.35 kWh annually. This is slightly more than 
estimated by the supplier at the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing 
as expected and as it was designed to.Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mrs 
A to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So overall, Im satisfied that Allium did not act unreasonably or unfairly when 
declining the claim.
Ive read everything Mrs A has submitted and carefully reconsidered her complaint. Im very 
sorry Mrs A is so disappointed with my findings and understand she believes the supplier 
misled her during the sale  I appreciate her strength of feeling regarding this matter.
But as I explained in my provisional decision, even if the household income of £50,000 was 
overstated, as the loan is in Mrs As sole name  affordability checks are limited to ensuring 
the loan payments are affordable to Mrs A and it looks like it was. This service has no 
punitive powers and is not the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority is the regulator 
that can take punitive actions against financial business. Our role is to assess whether any 
errors/misrepresentations have occurred that have caused a consumer loss  and then to 
order businesses to put that right.
As Ive found the documents given overall made it clear the system wouldnt be self-funding, 
and the loan was, in any event, affordable, I dont think Allium needs to do anything to put 
matters right for Mrs A. 
Unfortunately, I understand Mrs A says she was shown documents to the contrary during the 
sale, but these were not left with her.  I appreciate Mrs A cannot submit evidence that she 
doesnt have. But I have to complete my assessment of her complaint based on the 
available evidence. The sales documents submitted by Allium and referred to above, make it 
clear the system wouldnt be self-funding  and the quote and credit agreement were signed 
by her. 
Having reviewed this complaint again, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as 
set out in my provisional decision. Im still satisfied that there were no untrue statements of 
fact made by the supplier that induced Mrs A to enter into the contract for the system, and I 
have found no other reason to uphold this complaint. So overall, Im satisfied that Allium did 
not act unreasonably or unfairly when declining the claim.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman