DRN-4375944
Complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with what Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) did to put things right 
after she complained about having been provided with seven accounts with overdrafts.
Background
In the period between the end of April 2023 and the beginning of May 2023 Mrs M opened 
seven Halifax accounts with overdrafts. The combined overdraft limits on these accounts 
totalled £2,600.00. Halifax has already agreed it shouldnt have provided Mrs M with these 
overdrafts and it has refunded all the interest, fees and charges it added . 
Our investigator thought that what Halifax had agreed to do to put things right was fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances of the case. Mrs M disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Halifax has agreed that it shouldnt have provided these overdrafts. And it has agreed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges added it to Mrs Ms overdrafts from then in order to 
put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Halifax has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances. In this case, Mrs M has been left with outstanding balances even though 
shes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges applied. So while Mrs M has been 
left with an outstanding balance to repay and she might be unhappy with this, Halifax has 
done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mrs M believes that Halifax should do more. As I understand it, she wants Halifax to reduce 
what she owes to £500. She also wants Halifax to remove all of the adverse information it 
has recorded regarding these overdrafts from her credit file. Ive started by thinking about 
what Mrs M has said about Halifax reducing what she owes. But as Ive explained all the 
interest, fees and charges, Halifax shouldnt have added have already been removed from 
the overdraft balance and this is what I would typically expect a lender to do in 
circumstances where it provided credit that it shouldnt have done. 
Nonetheless, I appreciate Mrs Ms argument that she hasnt had the benefit of the funds. So 
Ive considered whether the lending here was so egregious that I should depart from our 
usual approach to putting things right and instead direct Halifax to write off some of the 
capital that it advanced. 
Ive considered the circumstances here and in particular that Halifax provided seven 
accounts and seven overdrafts. While seven accounts and seven overdrafts seem a lot, I 
have to take into account that Halifax only gave Mrs M an overall limit of £2,600.00. I 
suspect that this was an overall upper limit that it was prepared to grant from the outset of 
Mrs Ms first application. And from this point forward it wasnt focusing on the individual 
granularity of the transactions on Mrs Ms account during the period concerned, it was 
merely granting increases that it had already in-principle agreed based on the first 
application.
Furthermore, it wasnt as if these applications took place over an extended period of time or 
after overdraft reviews had taken place either. All of this took place in less than two weeks. 
So its clear that everything happened quickly in terms of the applications and the limits 
granted. I accept that £2,600.00 may have been unaffordable  indeed Halifax accepts this 
too. But what Halifax has already done has compensated Mrs M for this. And I also suspect 
that Halifax would have taken steps to correct Mrs Ms usage at some point in the not-too-
distant future had she not complained as quickly as she did.
In these circumstances and bearing in mind the speed of Mrs Ms applications meant that 
Halifax was unlikely to have noticed her spending habits, I dont think that its decisions to 
lend were so egregious that it should reduce what Mrs M owes to £500 here. Im not 
persuaded that it lent funds in circumstances where it ought reasonably to have realised that 
there was a significant risk that they would dissipate  although I accept that Mrs M doesnt 
agree with this. In any event, and most importantly Im satisfied that a refund of all the 
interest, fees and charges added remains the fair and reasonable remedy here.    
I now turn to the adverse information. I think that removing any adverse information here 
would require Halifax to record that Mrs Ms overdraft was settled in full and on time. And I 
think that it would be unfair to Halifax and Mrs M, unreasonable its logic and inaccurate if I 
asked Halifax to amend Mrs Ms credit file in this way  as that doesnt reflect what actually 
happened here. 
By asking Halifax to remove any adverse information here, Id be asking it to record 
inaccurate information and telling it to record that the overdrafts were paid in full and on time. I think that this wholly inaccurate information would increase the chances of Mrs M being 
able to access further funds  in circumstances where Mrs M has acknowledged that she 
has a problem and where she made so many applications quickly. This only happened a few 
months ago too. 
Given what Mrs M has said, I think that requiring Halifax to amend Mrs Ms credit file in the 
way shes suggested would be counterproductive and arguably not in Mrs Ms best interests, 
or those of any potential lender. It would have the result of making her appear more 
creditworthy than she actually is. I think that this would increase the chances of Mrs M 
obtaining credit and creating even more debt that would be unsustainable and which she 
wouldnt have the ability to repay. 
So having carefully thought about everything, including what Mrs M has told us, Im not 
going to ask Halifax to amend Mrs Ms credit file to remove any adverse information. This 
means that Halifax can and should continue to record any adverse information that it has 
recorded in relation to these overdrafts.
I appreciate that my findings here will be very disappointing for Mrs M  especially as she 
feels as though shes left with a debt she cannot pay. I appreciate her strength of feeling. But 
Halifax has said that it is prepared to exercise forbearance and due consideration in line with 
its regulatory obligations and set up an affordable payment plan with Mrs M. I would 
encourage Mrs M to contact and co-operate with Halifax for this to be done with her input.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Halifax has already done to put things right 
for Mrs M  reworking her accounts so that all the interest, fees and charges are removed  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything 
more. I hope that Mrs M will understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least 
feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland Plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mrs M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint. And Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman