DRN-1571826
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car Insurance (Direct 
Line) cancelled his motor insurance policy.
Mr B called Direct Line to change one of the named drivers on his policy. During that call, 
Direct Line had concerns that the named drivers were being described as courier drivers and 
being paid per delivery. Direct Line cancelled Mr Bs policy as it says this is different to the 
information they were given when the policy was taken out and that Direct Line dont insure 
courier drivers. Mr B says this was a misunderstanding and that his drivers are paid by the 
hour, not per delivery  and that this hasnt changed since he took out the policy.
Direct Line asked for proof of how the drivers were paid to verify this. But the wage slips 
Mr B provided were handwritten and Direct Line didnt find them persuasive, so it cancelled 
Mr Bs policy. Mr B says this is unfair as he now needs to declare the cancellation to his 
future insurers.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr B didnt agree so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When the policy was taken out, Mr B told Direct Line that his drivers were being paid 
per hour and Direct insured him on that basis.
 
While Mr B explained that this is still the case, his conversation with Direct Line in 
September 2019 gave it cause for concern that the delivery drivers were being paid 
per delivery. And as Direct Line doesnt provide cover for courier drivers, I think it 
was reasonable for it to ask Mr B to provide evidence of this.
 
Mr B provided Direct Line with wage slips but these were handwritten with very little 
detail and were provided after Mr B had previously told Direct Line that he doesnt 
issue wage slips. Direct Line didnt consider these to be satisfactory to show that the 
named drivers werent courier drivers and given the wage slips that were provided, I 
dont think that was unreasonable.
 
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy state that it can cancel the policy "where 
you are required in accordance with the terms of this policy, to co-operate with us, or 
send us information or documentation and you fail to do so in a way that substantially 
affects our ability to process your claim, or deal with your policy". As Mr B didnt 
provide Direct Line with suitable evidence that his drivers werent couriers, I think the policy was cancelled in line with the terms and conditions of the policy as I think its 
likely that his failure to provide Direct Line with satisfactory documentation would 
have significantly affected its ability to deal with Mr Bs policy or process any future 
claims.
 
As I dont think Direct Line acted unreasonably in cancelling Mr Bs policy, I wont be 
asking it to remove any information it has recorded with the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange  the central insurance database.
 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Bs frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman