DRN-2411142
The complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement value Acromas Insurance Company Limited offered 
him after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He also complains about the way 
this claim was handled.
What happened
Mr M holds a motor insurance policy with Acromas. After his wife, Mrs M was involved in an 
incident he made a claim to Acromas for the damage to his vehicle.
Acromas accepted Mr Ms claim, and at first had it recorded as a fault claim. It agreed to 
settle Mr Ms claim by declaring his car a total loss and offered Mr M £7,500 minus the policy 
excess to settle his claim.
Unhappy with this offer Mr M complained to Acromas via his insurance broker. Throughout 
the complaint Mr M has been represented by another individual. But for ease, Ill continue 
this decision referring to Mr M himself.
Mr M complained about a number of points. He wasnt happy about the communication and 
decision to write his car off and declare it a total loss. He wasnt happy with the amount 
Acromas offered him to settle the claim and wasnt happy he was told there was nothing that 
could be done to challenge this amount. He was also unhappy he was told he was at fault for 
the incident when this wasnt the case.
Acromas looked into Mr Ms complaint. It acknowledged it had made some errors in 
communicating how the claim would be recorded and that it made an error when it said 
nothing could be done about challenging the valuation it placed on Mr Ms car. It offered 
£150 compensation for these errors. But it felt it communicated the outcome of the claim 
acceptably. Acromas reviewed its settlement offer and increased it to £8,500 to settle Mr Ms 
claim.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He said only 200 of his car were 
ever sold in the UK, and that based on his research a fairer settlement would be to offer 
closer to £10,000.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought the decision to write off Mr Ms car was a decision Acromas was entitled to make, 
and he thought that decision was reasonable. He also thought the offer of £8,500 was a fair 
offer based on industry trade guides.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case has been passed to 
me. Mr M has said that he doesnt question the approach Acromas took when using the 
trade guides. But hes said he does question whether they are the fairest method to 
determine the value of his car considering its rarity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
he was hoping for. But Ill explain my reasoning below.
Mr M is unhappy with the communication around writing his car off. Hes said he wasnt 
aware of the possible write off categories and there was no discussion about whether the car 
could have been repaired or not. In Mr Ms policy, Acromas says if Mr M makes a claim for 
damage itll choose to either repair or replace the damage or loss or pay the cost to repair 
the damage or pay for the loss. And it says the most itll pay is the market value of the car. I 
can understand Mr M would have liked to have been involved or consulted on what 
happened to his car. But ultimately the decision on whether to write his car off and declare it 
a total loss or not belongs to Acromas. So Acromas didnt need to enter into discussions with 
him. Ive seen the estimate cost to repair the damage and as this exceeded the market value 
of Mr Ms car, so Im satisfied Acromass decision to write it off was reasonable. 
As mentioned above, the most Acromas will pay for any claim Mr M makes on his policy for 
damage to his car is the market value of his car. The policy defines the market value as the 
cost of replacing his vehicle with a vehicle of the same make, model, specification, age, 
mileage and condition as his vehicle was immediately before the loss or damage he is 
claiming for. Acromas has said its offer of £8,500 is a fair offer as it used three trade guides, 
CAP, Glasss and Parkers and offered Mr M the highest figure these guides offered.
Mr M thinks this value is unfair as its too low. Hes said a fairer value would be closer to 
£10,000. Hes provided some evidence in the form of valuations provided by prospective 
dealers based on what they would have sold his car for, and what theyd sold similar cars 
for. Mr M has questioned how reliable the trade guides are as only 200 of his car were sold 
in the UK.
Ive considered all the evidence provided by both sides here. And Ive also ran valuations 
myself on CAP, Glasss and Cazana (another trade guide). These guides provided 
valuations of £6,525, £8,500 and £7,207 respectively.
Having considered all the evidence, Im satisfied Acromass offer of £8,500 is fair and in line 
with the market value of Mr Ms car.
I appreciate Mr Ms concerns that due to the rarity of his car the guides arent as reliable. But 
Im not persuaded that theyre incorrect or unfair in this case. The guides specific purpose is 
to value vehicles. They use nationwide data and take into account the make, model 
specification, age, mileage and condition of the car.
Im not persuaded Mr Ms evidence shows these guides are incorrect or unfair. Replacing a 
car like for like is very difficult. As already mentioned there are a number of factors to 
consider, so determining the market value of a car isnt an exact science. The estimates 
provided are from dealers which do have a potential vested interest in the car. I understand 
Mr M has pointed out he made it clear the car had been written off, but from what Ive seen 
this was only after the dealers had given their valuation. But importantly Im not persuaded 
that these values are more accurate or a fairer representation than those provided by the 
trade guides. And whats more, Im not persuaded the evidence Mr M has provided shows 
the trade guides shouldnt be relied on.
In any case, as determining the market value of a car isnt an exact science, our approach is 
to use a number of trade guides and to see if the offer the insurer has made is within the 
range of values these guides offer. Where any guide is considerably out of line with the others - either higher or lower  we might think its fair to discount that guide from the range. 
In this case, the range between the guides is between £6,525 and £8,500. Acromass offer is 
at the top end of this range. So Im satisfied its fair.
As explained above Im not persuaded Mr Ms evidence is as persuasive as the trade 
guides. But if I were to consider it to be and to effectively treat it as another guide, the range 
offered by the guides  inclusive of Mr Ms evidence would be between £6,525 and £10,000. 
And Acromass offer of £8,500 would still be within that range, and subsequently, fair.
I appreciate Mr M has found it difficult to replace his car for this amount. But as hes 
mentioned, there were a limited number of them made and sold in the UK. This will 
undoubtedly make them harder to find, and harder still to find one thats a like for like 
comparison to his. But this doesnt mean Acromass offer is unfair or that it doesnt reflect 
the market value of his car.
Looking at the claim as a whole, Acromas could have done better. It did say Mr M was at 
fault for the incident when this clearly wasnt the case. And it did mistakenly tell Mr M that 
after accepting the settlement offer there was nothing more he could do about disputing the 
valuation of his car. Acromas has acknowledged these errors and the distress and 
inconvenience they caused and offered £150 compensation. And in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that offer is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman