DRN-3793403
The complaint
Miss R complains through a representative that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted loans to her.
 
What happened
Miss R took four home collected loans from Morses between July 2017 and December 2017. 
A brief summary of the borrowing can be found below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 27/07/2017 09/11/2017 20 £15.00
2 £150.00 10/10/2017 sold 33 £7.50
3 £200.00 09/11/2017 sold 20 £15.00
4 £150.00 07/12/2017 sold 33 £7.50
Miss R had some problems repaying loans 2  4 and Morses has shown these loans were 
sold to a third-party debt collector on 17 May 2018. 
Following Miss Rs complaint, Morses considered it and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this 
response, Miss Rs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She thought, perhaps Morses ought to 
have done further checks before the loans were granted. But as no new or further 
information had been provided by Miss Rs representatives, she couldnt say what Miss Rs 
financial position was at the time each loan was approved. The adjudicator didnt uphold the 
complaint.  
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss Rs representative didnt agree and asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss R could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Miss Rs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss R. These factors include:
Miss R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss R.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss R could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss R was able to repay her 
loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Rs complaint.
Loan 1
Before the loan was approved, Morses took details of Miss Rs income and expenditure. She 
declared a weekly income of £250 with declared weekly outgoings of £100. Leaving around 
£150 per week in which to make her repayment of £15. This loan looked affordable to 
Morses based on the information Miss R declared.  
In addition, before this loan (and only this loan) was granted Morses also carried out a credit 
search and it has provided a copy of the results to the Financial Ombudsman.  
It is worth saying here that although Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Morses received may not entirely reflect information Miss R 
may be able to see in her own credit report. There could be for several reasons for this, such 
as Morses only asking for certain pieces of information. But what Morses shouldnt do is 
carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  
Having looked at the credit check results, there was some adverse information which I think 
Morses needed to take into consideration and react appropriately. Morses knew there were 
a total of 6 defaults recorded on Miss Rs credit file  of which 3 had been settled. The most 
recent default had been recorded four months before this loan was approved, so Morses was on notice, that close to the loan being approved Miss R must have had some financial 
difficulties because an account had been defaulted. 
Morses was also on notice that Miss R had opened three new credit accounts within the last 
three months and four within the last six months. This is a fair amount of credit commitment 
to open, and averages close to one a month. This ought to have prompted further checks 
because given the regularity in which Miss R opened new credit this could be a sign that she 
was using other forms of high-cost credit or was using credit to pay back other borrowing. 
Indeed, the credit search results showed that Miss R already had two existing home credit 
loans outstanding at the time of loan 1 being granted. 
Finally, Morses was aware of outstanding total debt of £1,659 across 8 active accounts. In 
addition, the credit results explained to Morses that the likely monthly repayment due to 
other creditors was around £320. Had Morses added this to the declared expenditure the 
loan wouldve still looked affordable, even though Morses recording on its income and 
expenditure spreadsheet that Miss R didnt have any other credit repayments to make. 
Overall, I do think there was enough in the credit check results to have prompted Morses to 
have carried out further checks. I therefore think it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to 
have verified the information Miss R provided about her income and expenditure. This 
couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking 
at bank statements and/or Miss Rs full credit file or any other documentation Miss R 
couldve provided.  
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be 
satisfied that had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve 
likely discovered that Miss R couldnt afford it.
Miss Rs representative hasnt provided a copy of her credit file or her bank statements (and 
has been given time to provide them) covering the period leading up to loan being advanced. 
Without anything further, I cant be sure what Morses may have seen had it carried out better 
checks. So, I cant fairly uphold the complaint about this loan. 
Loans 2  4
Again, the income and expenditure information Morses gathered suggested these loans 
were affordable for Miss R. Although I do have some concerns with the information 
Miss R provided and which Morses accepted  for example Miss R declared she had zero 
expenditure for loan 2. This wasnt realistic given what she declared for loan 1 and for loans 
3 and 4.  
But I still think, given the results of the credit checks, and the fact all of these loans 
overlapped it ought to have alerted Morses that it needed to have carried out further checks 
before granting further lending. These checks needed to have extended to verifying the 
information Miss R had provided about her income and expenditure. Morses didnt do this. 
However, as Ive said above, Miss Rs representative hasnt provided a copy of her bank 
statements, her full credit file or any other documentation I may have been able to use in 
order to try to establish what her actual financial position was at the time. Therefore, while 
Morses may not have carried out a proportionate check, for the same reasons as loan 1, Im 
not in a position to uphold Miss Rs complaint about these loans either. 
An outstanding balance does remain due and so if Miss R hasnt already done so she may 
wish to contact the third-party collection agency to discuss repayment of the debt. My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman