DRN-3018324
The complaint
Mr T complained British Gas hadnt offered enough to address the distress suffered after his 
boiler was left in a dangerous condition by one of their engineers.
What happened
On 11 February 2021 an engineer came to Mr Ts house under the home care cover 
provided by British Gas. Mr T says his heating and boiler had stopped working the day 
before. The engineer left on the 11 February 2021 saying repairs had been completed and 
the boiler was safe.
Shortly after the engineer left Mr T smelt gas in the room where the boiler is located, and he 
contacted the National Grid. A significant leak was identified, and Mr Ts gas supply was 
capped the same day. Mr T complained to British Gas. 
A British Gas engineer attended the next day, completed repairs and said the appliance was 
safe. No further problems with the boiler have been identified to this service.
British Gas apologized for the fault and for the distress caused to Mr T. Initially they offered 
£50 as compensation, which Mr T rejected. He said his family and the surrounding area 
were put in serious danger. He was concerned there could be further faults. He thought, and 
continues to think, British Gas ought to install a new boiler free of charge. Mr T was also 
unhappy British Gas took eight weeks to start to look at his complaint.
British Gas acknowledged Mr T had raised valid concerns and said they were sorry for the 
distress caused. But they didnt agree with the level of compensation Mr T thought 
appropriate. British Gas thought all necessary checks had been completed on the boiler. 
They accepted customer service failings and said they were investigating the work done by 
the engineer on 11 February 2021. British Gas repeated their apology. They asked Mr T how 
they could assist him to feel reassured his boiler presented no further concerns. British Gas 
indicated a willingness to consider an increase in the level of financial redress offered. Mr T 
said nothing apart from a new boiler was acceptable.
Having conducted a further review British Gas said they didnt feel their offer had sufficiently 
reflected the distress caused. So they offered Mr T £468.18, which they said was the 
equivalent of a years cover. British Gas confirmed they continued to consider the provision 
of a new boiler unreasonable. 
An investigator at this service concluded British Gas offer was sufficient in the 
circumstances. Mr T doesnt agree. He didnt feel the investigator recognised the severity of 
the error. He says his boiler and heating had broken down on 10 February and so he was 
left without hot water and heating for the two coldest days of the year, until 12 February. He 
said he had to purchase additional heaters to keep his family sufficiently warm.
Mr T told us British Gas initially told him they wouldnt be able to return for two weeks after 
his supply was capped, as the matter wasnt a priority. Mr T told us it was only when he 
objected that someone was sent out the same day.
Provisional decision
On 26 July 2021 I issued a provisional decision in this case. In this I indicated I intended to 
uphold Mr Ts complaint in part. I didnt think British Gas should be required to replace Mr Ts 
boiler but I thought their offer to reimburse Mr Ts annual cover was broadly fair. I set out that 
British Gas ought to reimburse the full cost of Mr Ts renewal cost (paid at around the same 
time) of £755.52. 
British Gas told us theyd only offered to refund the portion of the renewal payment for the   
boiler and central heating cover. They said they didnt understand why they were required to 
refund the portion relating to additional cover. The final response letter referred to central 
heating cover. We asked British Gas a little more about what they were saying. We also 
shared British Gas comments with Mr T. British Gas went on to tell us the difference in sums 
reflected the different cover agreements and what was involved.
Mr T told us he found matters offensive. He said the complaint wasnt about money but 
culpability. Mr T told us his family had been endangered and his household had been 
caused a substantial amount of stress. He didnt feel British Gas, or this service had taken 
the dangers involved seriously enough and said he intended to look at pursuing matters 
elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding Mr Ts complaint in part and have not changed my thinking from that set out 
in my provisional decision. British Gas accept their engineer caused the gas leak on 11 
February 2021. This left Mr T without heat and hot water for an additional day, instead of it 
being mended on the same day. Mr T was caused concern and distress as well as 
inconvenience. Ive primarily had to consider whether British Gas offered enough to meet the 
impact of what happened.
Although Mr T and his family were only inconvenienced and without heat and hot water for a 
limited period during winter, the distress was understandably more complex and as such 
somewhat more protracted. Here the sum that represents the full renewal price that became 
due around the same time, is not unreasonable taking everything into account. British Gas 
explained their offer to refund a year of cover was intended to only reflect a year of boiler 
and heating cover. I accept this was their intention but this hasnt persuaded me to alter my 
thinking around a reasonable sum based on everything. 
In my provisional decision, I explained I thought the total cost of renewal here was broadly 
fair. Mr T feels he cant trust the boiler isnt faulty. Whilst concern about this is 
understandable, that doesnt mean it would be right or proportionate to require British Gas to 
replace the boiler. Ive seen British Gas consider all the necessary checks have been 
completed around safety. No further problems have been identified to this service.
I have balanced everything to conclude whats reasonable. Although I accept British Gas 
intended to only reimburse part of the annual cover cost, Ive concluded a reimbursement of 
the sum representing what Mr T was required to pay British Gas around the time of the 
incident, £755.52, is reasonable here. I understand neither party thinks this is the right sum, 
but I think its fair taking everything into account. Mr T doesnt think its enough, but I think it 
falls into the upper range of what might be considered appropriate.British Gas suggested Mr Ts cover for the year was less than the sum contained in the 
renewal letter. I havent been told if British Gas have paid any money yet to Mr T. Ive 
acknowledged this in setting out what British Gas are required to do, if Mr T accepts my 
decision. 
I understand Mr T feels his family and others were put in danger. The extent of any danger 
hasnt been explored, but its accepted there was significance to the leak. It is fortunate here 
Mr T quickly realised there was a gas leak and the supply was capped. There were no 
consequential ill-effects arising from any exposure to the gas and so any danger is 
hypothetical at its highest. The impact of the fault is really one of distress and inconvenience. 
Mr T feels strongly about the failures in the service provided and the level of danger 
involved. Ive previously explained it isnt the role of this service to investigate wider public 
safety issues or to punish a business.
For completeness Mr T told us he had to buy heaters as a result of events on 11 February 
2021. I invited Mr T to tell us more about this and provide any receipts as this might have 
been something I could consider as a consequential financial loss. Mr T hasnt provided 
anything on this and so I havent considered this issue any further. Ive previously set out my 
thinking about the time British Gas took to originally refer and look at his complaint. I didnt 
think this was something I was able to consider, in any event, Id seen the investigator had 
provided information on this previously.
Putting things right
What British Gas are required to do
On being notified of Mr Ts acceptance of my decision, British Gas are required to pay Mr T 
the sum of £755.52 within 28 days of being notified of the acceptance. If British Gas have 
previously paid any sum to Mr T in relation to this complaint, this sum may be deducted from 
the £755.52. My understanding is Mr T has refused both previous offers of £50 and the 
increased offer of £468.18, so it does not appear Mr T has received any sum yet in relation 
to this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold Mr Ts complaint about British Gas Insurance Limited in part. 
British Gas are required to pay Mr T £755.52 within 28 days of being notified of his 
acceptance of my decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman