DRN-3038298
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him after he lost money to a purchase 
scam.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 25 August 2021. The background and
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to not uphold it were set out in
that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics below:
Mr S says that in July 2020, he was looking to purchase an electronic scooter (e-scooter) to 
avoid using public transport during the pandemic. He saw an advertisement for a used        
e-scooter being sold on a social media app and decided to buy the item. Unbeknownst to Mr 
S at the time, the seller was in fact a scammer.
Mr S has explained that his friend had purchased items from the same person in the past, so 
this reassured Mr S that the seller was genuine. He sent £200 to the fraudster by faster 
payment at 11:43 and agreed to meet the fraudster locally to receive the e-scooter.
When the fraudster didnt provide him with the scooter, Mr S realised hed been the victim of 
a scam and contacted Monzo to report the incident. Monzo investigated his fraud claim and 
was able to recover £69.01 from the beneficiary bank.
Monzo went on to consider its obligations to provide Mr S with a refund. Monzo has
committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM)
Code, despite not being a signatory of it. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of
circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Monzo said Mr S didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the seller he was purchasing
from was legitimate and ought to have carried out more checks before making the payment.
It also said Mr S had been the victim of a similar scam previously on a different online
platform.
Mr S disagreed with Monzo so brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators
considered the case and thought it ought to be upheld, with Monzo providing a full refund.
He thought Mr S had a reasonable basis for belief because:
He disagreed with Monzos argument that the app Mr S purchased from isnt a 
legitimate platform from which to buy and sell goods
He didnt consider the price Mr S paid was too good to be true and shouldve 
alerted Mr S to the fact that this was a scam
The investigator thought Mr S wouldve been understandably reassured that his 
friend had successfully purchased from the scammer before
Mr S saw pictures and videos of the e-scooter he was intending to buy
While Mr S had recently fallen victim to a similar scam, the investigator thought that 
Mr S still had a good reason to believe this sale was legitimate, based on the sales 
platform being different and Mr Ss previous positive experiences of purchasing 
through this platform.
Monzo didnt agree with the investigators recommendation. It said that:
There is no mention on the social media apps website that it is a commerce platform 
and while Mr S may have had prior positive experiences, Monzo didnt think this 
should give him confidence when making future purchases.
It doesnt consider that word of mouth fulfils the Codes requirement for a customer to 
satisfy themselves that a person they transact with is legitimate.
Pictures or videos of an item dont demonstrate an intention of selling.
If an individual is scammed, your overall level of confidence would be reduced, not 
just your confidence in that single platform.
The case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo
should have reimbursed Mr S under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to
have done more to protect Mr S from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. The Code
places a level of care on Mr S too, so Ive considered whether he met this.
The CRM Code
As Ive mentioned, Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) although they arent a Code signatory, which
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push
Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances and it is for
Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of
the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish
that*:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think there is enough evidence to
conclude that Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing the payment he made was
legitimate, so I dont think Monzo has acted unfairly by relying on this exception to not
reimburse him under the provisions of the CRM Code. I think there are inconsistencies within
the information Ive been provided and as a result Im not persuaded Mr S had a reasonable
basis for belief when making the payment. Ive set out my reasoning below.
Mr S has been unable to provide a copy of the initial advertisement for the e-scooter, or the
initial conversation he had with the seller about the purchase. In the absence of available
evidence, it makes it difficult to establish what exactly did happen for this scam to unfold,
whether Mr S did have a reasonable basis for believing the seller was legitimate, or whether
he should have carried out further checks before making the payment. Because of the lack
of available evidence, Im only able to rely on the later part of the conversation Mr S had with
the scammer that hes been able to evidence, as well as Mr Ss recollections of the scam.
Having reviewed the evidence from both Mr S and Monzo, I think Mr Ss recollections of the
scam are inconsistent.
Mr S first contacted Monzo by online chat at 11:57 to report the fraudulent transaction  so
just over ten minutes after he made the payment  and was called shortly after by a Monzo
representative. During this call Mr S said:
I think I made a mistake sending money to somebody on my account because I changed
it was the wrong account number
When asked if the account holders name is correct Mr S replied:
I didnt spell it right and also one of the numbers is off
When asked if he knows the person he was sending money to, or if the account number was
just entered incorrectly, Mr S replied:
It was just a missed number.
When speaking again through Monzo chat the same day Mr S confirmed the person
completely sent me the wrong details but now I dont want to sent him the money and he 
sent me the wrong details and I found out hes a fraud. He also explained He told me to
send it to that account but now he sent me another account detail and someone told me a
fraud
However, when Mr S brought the complaint to us he explained to the investigator that he
sent the funds to the fraudster, but he knew something was suspicious so immediately
contacted Monzo to put a caution on the payment. Mr S provided copies of the messages
between him and the scammer after he had made the payment. While these messages
arent time stamped, they show the scammer suggested they meet at 4:30, followed by Mr S
chasing the scammer up, calling multiple times and ending by saying you said 4:30.
When asked for clarification about what happened after he made the payment to the
fraudster, Mr S told our investigator that when he sent the money, he was already near the
agreed location the fraudster had suggested meeting, so he went there to meet him, but thefraudster stopped answering his messages  he therefore immediately contacted Monzo. Mr
S said that no one had told him that this was fraud  and he wasnt told to send money a
different account  and he knew it was a scam when the fraudster didnt arrive with the
scooter.
Overall, I dont think Mr Ss recollections of how the scam occurred are consistent  he
initially told Monzo he had inputted a wrong digit on the account number, then that hed been
given new account details to send more funds to and had been told by someone this was
fraud. When bringing the complaint to us he said this wasnt the case  that he realised hed
been the victim of a scam when he went to meet the fraudster at an agreed location but the
fraudster didnt arrive.
However, even considering Mr Ss recollections he provided to us, I think there are
inconsistencies. The fraudster said to Mr S he would meet him at 4:30, yet Mr S contacted
Monzo at 11:57  so before the fraudster had even agreed to meet him. Mr S had said he
became suspicious when the fraudster stopped communicating with him, but there was only
around ten minutes between making the payment, agreeing to meet and Mr S contacting
Monzo  I dont think its likely that it was this period of time without contact that led Mr S to
believe he was the victim of a scam  particularly when Mr S had been told by the fraudster
to meet later that day. From the messages Ive seen it also seems Mr S was still in contact
with the fraudster past 4:30  as he specifically tells him you said 4.30. This suggests to
me that at this time, Mr S still was still waiting for the fraudster to arrive. Mr S has said he
had been reassured the seller was genuine as his friend had successfully purchased from
him before  but after around ten minutes without contact, Mr S seemed satisfied that this
was a scam.
Mr S was also talking to the fraudster on both social media and text messaging, yet the
fraudsters name on the social media app differed to where Mr S sent the money and the
name Mr S seems to have saved on his phone was again entirely different to both. When
asked why there were multiple names for the scammer, Mr S said sometimes on social
media people will use different names to their real names. He said despite knowing this, he
found the name difference on social media suspicious and questioned this with the fraudster.
He says he was told the fraudsters social media account is in his middle name. He hasnt
clarified why the scammers name on his phone was different.
In summary as Mr S has not been able to provide evidence of how the scam unfolded, I
have to rely on the evidence I do have from later in the scam and Mr Ss own recollections.
As these arent consistent, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Monzo has been
able to establish Mr S made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief  because
there isnt persuasive evidence to support an alternative conclusion. Mr S hasnt provided
persuasive submissions as to why he reported the scam so quickly  theres no clear 
evidence as to what happened in the ten minute period after making the payment  so I think
in the absence of evidence its more likely than not that Mr S had reservations about the
legitimacy of the seller when making the payment. Despite questioning Mr S on these points,
I dont think hes been able to satisfactorily explain the inconsistencies.
For these reasons, Im therefore not persuaded by the evidence currently available that Mr S
met his requisite level of care under the CRM code that would require Monzo to reimburse
him.
Should Monzo have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr S?
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr S from financial harm.
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, theyshould provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the
scam.
I am also mindful that when Mr S made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
Ive considered the payment Mr S made to the scammer and I dont think it stood out enough
for Monzo to have been concerned he may have been at risk of financial fraud at the time he
made it, so I dont think Monzo shouldve done more than it did when processing the
payment.
I understand Mr S doesnt think Monzo reported the scam soon enough to the beneficiary
bank in order to retrieve his money and that had it acted sooner, further funds couldve been
recoverable.
I agree that Monzo didnt contact the beneficiary bank in the timeframes I would expect. Ive
therefore thought about what wouldve happened had Monzo acted sooner. Weve been
provided with evidence from the receiving bank that Mr Ss funds were removed by the
fraudster at 12:27 on the same day Mr S made the payment  so around 30 minutes after Mr
S made the payment. At 12:27, Monzo was still in the process of collecting information about
the scam from Mr S  a process it would need to complete in order to raise a fraud case with
the beneficiary bank. The beneficiary bank would then also need a reasonable period of time
to review the allegation and take action. I therefore dont think, even if Monzo had acted
immediately, that any further funds of Mr Ss wouldve been recoverable  so I dont think it
would be fair or reasonable to hold Monzo liable for the remaining funds Mr S lost.
Overall, Im satisfied that Monzos position on Mr Ss fraud claim, and its assessment under
the CRM Code, is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and that Monzo shouldnt
be held liable for Mr Ss losses. And so I dont intend to make an award to Mr S.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr S will have been hoping for  but the circumstances of
the case and the evidence available lead me to find Im unable to uphold this complaint.
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider by 8 September 2021. Neither party provided 
any further submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional evidence or arguments, I see no reason to
depart from my provisional findings, and I remain of the view that this complaint should not
be upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman