DRN-2898901
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, reported adverse information 
on his credit file.
What happened
Mr As debit card was used to make a transaction at a petrol station. This transaction took Mr 
As account to an overdrawn position. Mr A didnt make a payment to bring the account back 
into a credit position, and this ultimately resulted in Halifax reporting the overdrawn status of 
Mr As account to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr A wasnt happy about this, especially as hed been unaware that his account was 
overdrawn. So, he raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr As complaint, but they noted that theyd sent several letters to Mr A 
advising him of the overdrawn status of his account before theyd made the report to the 
credit reference agencies. So, Halifax didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly or made any form 
of error, and because of this they didnt uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr As complaint, but they also felt that Halifax hadnt 
acted unfairly and had followed an appropriate process, so they also didnt uphold Mr As 
complaint.
Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find that Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator here, and for 
essentially the same reasons.
Mr A stated that Halifax didnt inform him that his account was overdrawn. However, Halifax 
have been able to demonstrate that several letters were sent to Mr As home address, 
including a statement which showed the account as being overdrawn, as well as a number of 
separate letters from Halifaxs collections department. It also must be noted that Mr A had 
access to his online banking and could have confirmed the balance of his account at any 
time using this method. 
Ultimately, Mr As account was overdrawn, and Mr A didnt make the payment necessary to 
rectify the situation. And given the information available to me, I can only conclude that 
Halifax acted fairly and reasonably both in how they tried to contact Mr A about this matter, 
and subsequently how they reported the overdrawn status of Mr As account to the credit 
reference agencies. 
The responsibility for monitoring this account rested with Mr A, and it was incumbent on him 
to manage the account and to maintain it with a credit balance. So, I dont feel that I can 
fairly censure Halifax for factually reporting to the credit reference agencies what actually 
took place here  which is that the account was overdrawn and remained so for some time.
I understand that Mr A believes that the transaction that took his account overdrawn was 
fraudulent and that it wasnt initiated by himself, and Im aware that this is an aspect to Mr 
As complaint that is currently under investigation by Halifax. And it may be the case, if its 
confirmed that the transaction that took Mr As account overdrawn is suspicious, that this 
matter may be cast in a different light.
However, within the defined remit of this review  which is concerned with whether Halifax 
reported factually correct information to the credit reference agencies, and whether Halifax 
made reasonable attempts to contact Mr A and inform him of the overdrawn balance  Im 
satisfied that Halifax havent acted unfairly or unreasonably toward Mr A for the reasons 
explained above.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr A was wanting here, but it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Halifax to take any further action at this 
time. I hope that Mr A can understand, given what Ive explained above, why I have made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My ifinal decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman