DRN-2413029
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) took longer than they said 
they would to send him the proceeds, following the maturity of an investment he held with 
them.
What happened
Mr E held an endowment policy with Aviva which was due to mature on 1 March 2020. Aviva 
have said that they wrote to Mr E on 20 January 2020, to confirm this and they acknowledge 
that this letter said that the payment following maturity could take 3-5 working days to reach 
Mr Es account. 
Mr E has said that because of this letter he checked his bank account on 6 March 2020 but 
saw he hadnt received any payment from Aviva. Hes said that when he chased them they 
confirmed the payment still hadnt been arranged. 
Aviva apologised to Mr E, offered him £50 compensation and arranged for the payment to be 
fast-tracked. Mr E confirmed he received the proceeds of the investment on 10 March 2020. 
He remained unhappy and so he brought his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
Our investigator agreed that Aviva hadnt done what they said they would and had caused a 
loss of expectation and inconvenience for Mr E. However, he felt that Aviva had done 
enough to put things right by offering Mr E £50. 
Mr E didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to reach a final decision. He said 
Aviva hadnt met their contractual obligation by arranging payment the day the policy 
matured and he wanted them to be punished. As there was no agreement, the case has 
been passed to me to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint.
Firstly, I appreciate how frustrating this would have been for Mr E - he was expecting a 
significant amount of money to be paid out to him upon maturity wasnt able to get any 
definite answers from Aviva. 
Mr E has said that there was a contractual obligation for Aviva to send him the payment 
immediately upon maturity. However, this isnt the case. I dont have sight of the actual terms 
and conditions due to the length of time since the policy was taken out. However, its unlikely 
that any business would bind itself to pay the maturity of a policy immediately due to the 
processes involved in making this payment. It is reasonable that the maturity payment is 
made within a number of days and it is reasonable that each business would have its own 
timescales. So, I am satisfied that there was no agreement as to when the proceeds would 
be sent. 
However, in its letter of 20 January 2020 Aviva did set an expectation as to when Mr E would 
receive the funds. And even though this may have been a mistake, this set an expectation 
for Mr E which they didnt meet. So, in recognition of this I would normally expect Aviva to 
compensate Mr E for this loss of expectation and the impact this frustration had caused him. 
But I am pleased to see Aviva has already made an offer and I am of the view that the 
amount is sufficient to recognise the impact.
I appreciate my decision will disappoint Mr E but its important for him to bear in mind that 
the role of this Service is not to punish a business but to identify any errors that and rectify 
this as much as possible. And as explained above the error Aviva made was to give the 
wrong time frame for paying out the maturity of the policy but this didnt cause Mr E any 
financial loss. And as mentioned the offer from Aviva in recognition of this is sufficient in my 
view.
For the reasons set out above, I dont require Aviva to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. If on further reflection, Mr E wishes to accept Avivas offer of redress, he should 
contact the business directly. My decision ends what we  in attempting to resolve Mr Es 
dispute with Aviva  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman