DRN-3077573
The complaint
Mr W complains Lloyds Bank PLC cancelled his debit and credit card unfairly, closed his 
accounts unfairly, and prevented him from obtaining the money he held in his current 
account. He says Lloyds should pay him compensation for the financial loss he incurred 
trying to resolve the matter and for the distress he was caused.
What happened
The events surrounding Mr Ws complaint are numerous and predominantly took place over 
the course of late 2019 and throughout 2020. The investigator who gave their view on        
Mr Ws complaint covered off the chronology of what happened in some detail. As a result, I 
find no need to repeat what they said in full, but I will cover off the main facts.
Mr W was a customer of Lloyds for some time and held a current account and a 
credit card. He is a teacher and works in different countries. So, although he holds a 
permanent UK address, he lives at other addresses temporarily when working.
Lloyds cancelled Mr Ws debit card in January 2019. It sent a new card to an 
overseas address it held for him. Lloyds acknowledge it sent the card to the incorrect 
address. At some point, its credit card department changed the correct address to an 
incorrect one. It accidentally moved the number of the property to the wrong address 
line. Lloyds received the card back as undelivered in March 2019.
Mr W tried unsuccessfully to make a payment using his now cancelled card in 
November 2019. By this time, he had moved to another country temporarily for work. 
He contacted Lloyds to query what was wrong and told them he didnt cancel his card 
or agree to change his address from his address in the United Kingdom. He asked 
for emergency cash and wanted Lloyds to allow him to collect his new cards and 
PINs at a branch in the UK. He had collected cards at that branch when he says a 
similar situation arose in the past.
Mr W had numerous telephone conversations about obtaining a new debit card and 
credit card, accessing his current account funds, and the costs he was incurring 
trying to resolve this matter. He also tried to transfer funds out of his current account 
via a money remittance service, but the payment was blocked by Lloyds fraud 
detection system because he had changed his contact phone number shortly 
beforehand. His online access was blocked, but then unblocked after he spoke to 
Lloyds complaint manager.
Lloyds refused Mr Ws request for emergency cash and said he couldnt collect a 
new debit card in branch. Although he may have collected cards in branch the past, 
this was no longer its process and his circumstances didnt fit its criteria for an 
exception to be made. It also said Mr W reported his card as damaged online in 
January 2019, and its process is to cancel a card 30 days later. 
Lloyds further found that Mr W changed his address in the United K to the overseas 
address in 2017 via telephone banking. It offered £126 for the cost of his calls and 
£50 for the inconvenience and distress Mr W experienced. But it refused to refund his 
flights to the UK, his hotel cost and loss of earnings.
Lloyds agreed to send a new debit card and credit card to the address it held for Mr 
W with Mr Ws agreement. But it also decided to give him 90 days notice before it 
would close his accounts, which it sent in its final response letter to his complaint. 
The final response was sent to the address it held for him (which it had corrected). Mr 
W made an online transfer of a large sum of money from his Lloyds account in April 
2020 and his account closed with a remaining balance. 
Lloyds sent Mr W a cheque for the remaining balance to the same address it sent the 
final response letter to. Mr W believed Lloyds sent the cheque late and by the time he 
received it, it had expired. He asked Lloyds to re-open his account in July 2020 so he 
could transfer his balance to another account he held. Lloyds responded saying it 
could only reissue the cheque but awarded him a further £25 for the inconvenience 
he experienced.
Mr W returned to the UK in September 2020 but found he couldnt cash his cheque. 
He contacted Lloyds again and it appears Lloyds considered allowing him to 
withdraw his balance in cash at a branch. In December 2020, Lloyds agreed to send 
Mr W the funds it was holding to an overseas account he holds. It asked for the 
equivalent of Mr Ws account sort code for the account, which Mr W gave, but Lloyds 
failed to make the payment.
An investigator at our service decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. In summary they 
found:
Mr W likely changed his address to an overseas address in 2017 and reported his 
card as damaged in January 2019. Lloyds system records evidence him doing this.
Lloyds werent to blame for Mr W booking what turned out to be an unnecessary trip 
to the UK. He may have been able to collect a card in branch in the past, but 
processes change. And it wasnt fair to tell Lloyds to repay the costs of his stay and 
lost income simply because of his assumption that he could get a new card and PIN 
in branch.
Mr W was made aware he could make online transfers out of his account in early 
January 2020 by Lloyds complaint manager. He was also told he could withdraw 
cash in branch when he travelled to the UK. But Mr W didnt make a transfer until 
several months later and neither did he make a cash withdrawal when he travelled to 
the UK in January 2020.
Lloyds were entitled to close Mr Ws accounts and it didnt need to give him a reason. 
It had given enough notice for the accounts to close in its final response letter  90 
days. Lloyds had sent Mr W an email saying the letter it had sent required his 
attention. And the complaint manager also offered to speak to Mr W to go through 
the letters contents, but Mr W didnt respond.
Lloyds sent a cheque for Mr Ws balance after closing his account in April 2020. This was sent to the overseas address it held for him which the complaint manager had 
corrected in January 2020. At that time, Mr W had agreed that new cards and PINS 
could be sent to the address, so it was reasonable to send the cheque for the 
account balance to the address after the account closed and for the final response 
letter to also be sent to the address.
Mr W sent in photos of a stamp on the envelope which contained the cheque for the 
balance of the account. Although the date on the stamp was dated later than when 
the account closed, it didnt indicate Lloyds delayed sending the cheque 
unnecessarily. Mr W also hadnt explained why his friend who received the cheque 
couldnt cash it into the overseas account Mr W appears to have with a bank in the 
country where his friend resides.
Lloyds took too long to decide what to do once Mr W returned to the UK. Its clear it 
considered allowing him to collect his remaining funds in cash at a branch, but it 
wasnt until December 2020 that it agreed to send the balance to the overseas 
account he held. But even when Mr W provided his account details in January 2021 
Lloyds failed to send the payment.
Lloyds should pay the remaining balance of Mr Ws account plus eight percent simple 
interest calculated from 29 October 2020 (when it considered allowing him to 
withdraw his balance in cash in a branch) to when it makes payment to his other 
account. It should also pay him the £25 compensation it sent by cheque if the cheque 
wasnt cashed, and an additional £500 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its delay caused him.
Lloyds agreed with the investigators findings, but Mr W did not. He says he should receive 
much more in compensation and has asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. As a 
result, his complaint has been given to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. Ill explain why:
Mr W most likely had another account other than his Lloyds current account during 
the duration of the problems he experienced with Lloyds. I say this because there 
was little activity on his Lloyds account for quite some time until late 2019, which 
doesnt accord with this being his main account. Mr W also clearly holds an overseas 
account with a bank in the country where he used to live and which he now wants his 
remaining balance paid into. I havent seen evidence to show this account didnt exist 
in November 2019.
I find Mr W did mark his card as damaged online in January 2019. Lloyds has a clear 
record on its system which indicates this is what happened, and I find the record 
reliable. I understand why Lloyds would then cancel his card after 30 days. After all, 
multiple live cards for one account represents a greater risk to account security. 
I find Mr W most likely agreed to change his correspondence address in 2017 by telephone banking. I say this because:
oLloyds has a record of him doing so, and other than the mistake made by 
Lloyds credit cards department, Mr Ws address was changed twice to 
addresses in the same country. Its less likely Lloyds would have erroneously 
changed his overseas address on two separate occasions without Mr Ws 
involvement.
oMr W appears not to have questioned receiving a debit card at the overseas 
address in September 2018. I would have expected him to query this at that 
time if he didnt want to receive mail from Lloyds at that address.
oOn one of Mr Ws phone calls to Lloyds he said he didnt want a card sent to 
his UK address for reasons of security, so this lends weight to him wanting to 
use another address.
oLloyds may have needed Mr W to change his address in 2017. But I dont find 
this would have been wrong. A few years is a significant period away from the 
UK, and Lloyds may have wanted a current overseas address Mr W because 
it has obligations which sometimes might require it to send letters.
I dont find the only solution for Mr W was to travel to the UK in January 2020. He 
thought Lloyds should be able to accommodate his request, given he had been able 
to collect cards in branch in the past. But bank processes do change, and the 
evidence indicates he booked his flights prior to confirming with Lloyds whether he 
needed to go to the UK. I dont find Lloyds were under an obligation to tell him he 
could no longer collect cards in branch before Mr W got in touch.
Mr W asked for emergency cash, but Lloyds turned him down because his 
circumstances didnt meet its criteria. I am not persuaded Lloyds should have given 
him access to emergency cash. The previous lack of activity on Lloyds account, 
meant it was likely Mr W held another account elsewhere and its possible he had 
access to funds in that account.
Mr W had been told he couldnt collect his card in branch, so I dont find Lloyds were 
obliged to issue a new card and PIN when he attended a branch. More importantly 
he had also been told he could withdraw funds in branch by bringing his cancelled 
card and identification. The complaint manager even gave their direct line for him to 
ring if he had difficulty withdrawing funds this way. But Mr W didnt make a 
withdrawal, which indicates his need for funds wasnt urgent.
Mr W was made aware he could transfer his funds online to another account in early 
January 2020 when he again spoke to Lloyds complaint manager. I appreciate his 
earlier attempt to transfer funds via a money remittance service was blocked by 
Lloyds fraud prevention system. But it was made clear to him why this had happened 
 he had changed his contact number online shortly beforehand  and he was told 
his account had been unblocked, which meant he could transfer money out. 
Its not clear why Mr W didnt transfer funds out of is account after being told his 
account was unblocked if his need for funds was urgent. He clearly was aware a few 
months later that he could transfer funds when he made a large transfer out of the 
account.I dont find the complaint manager Mr W spoke was rude or unreasonable. But 
neither do I doubt Mr W felt he was. How someone feels they have been talked to 
can be subjective and Mr W was understandably frustrated by not having access to 
his account and he was also concerned he would run out of credit on his phone. 
The complaint manager asked Mr W several times if wanted to close/withdraw his 
complaint. But the manager needed to know if he should formally respond to Mr W in 
writing, so it was reasonable for him to clarify what Mr W wanted to do. At one point, 
Mr W had said he never raised a complaint, so I understand why the conversation 
took this path.
Lloyds were able to close Mr Ws account without giving him a reason. And I find it 
complied with its terms and conditions by giving him 90 days notice in its final 
response letter. Because the final response letter contained the notice to close Mr W 
was sent an email informing him there were important actions for him to take. He 
responded and said it would take weeks for the final response letter to arrive. But the 
complaint manager volunteered to speak to Mr W about the letter, to which Mr W did 
not respond. I havent seen the final response arrived late, but even if it did, Lloyds 
are not responsible for its receipt.
I find Lloyds didnt delay sending out a cheque for the balance it held when the 
account closed. The stamp on the envelope which contained the cheque appears to 
be a sorting office stamp for the country where the letter was sent. So, its possible 
the letter was processed late by that office and arrived late to Mr Ws friend, 
especially given the impact the pandemic had on postal services at that time. But I 
dont find this shows Lloyds were lax in sending the cheque.
Mr Ws friend was in possession of his cheque at least from June 2020, given the 
date of the stamp on the envelope. But it appears Mr W held a bank account in the 
country the cheque was sent to. So, its unclear why his friend didnt deposit the 
cheque into that account for him. Mr W says he thought the cheque had expired, but 
Im not sure why he made this assumption because the cheque had only been issued 
in late April 2020.
Mr W returned to the UK in September 2020. He says Lloyds wouldnt let him cash 
his cheque. And by the end of October 220 Lloyds look to have been considering 
allowing him to withdraw his balance in cash at a branch. But nothing further 
happened until Mr W contacted Lloyds again in November 2020. Lloyds reviewed the 
situation and asked Mr W to send it what is the equivalent of a UK bank account sort 
code for his other bank account. This was so Lloyds could transfer the remaining 
balance to that account. Mr W responded promptly by email in January 2021, but 
Lloyds still failed to act. 
Our investigator asked Lloyds to make payment to Mr W on several occasions and 
they provided the account information it needed. It was clear the issue of Lloyds 
sending Mr W his money was not contingent on the outcome of the complaint. And it 
was also clear Lloyds didnt doubt the funds belonged to Mr W. But it still failed to 
make payment. So, Im satisfied Mr W should be compensated for the frustration he 
was caused by Lloyds delay. And I find £500 is reasonable compensation.Mr W wants considerably more in compensation. But Im not awarding him more than 
this. Prior to him not being able to cash his cheque on his return to the UK in 
September 2020, he could have transferred his remaining balance from his Lloyds 
account before it closed. And, as he held an overseas account in the country where 
his friend received his cheques, it looks like the cheque for the balance of his Lloyds 
account could have been paid into that account for him to access. So, to some extent 
Mr W could have mitigated the losses he says he experienced.
Its also not my role to award compensation in order to penalise Lloyds for its error. 
Instead, my role is to award compensation based on what I think is fair to put matters 
right.
I have seen no indication when reviewing the evidence that Mr W was treated any 
differently to how any other Lloyds customer would have been treated if they faced 
the same circumstances. Im not persuaded the service Mr W received was 
influenced by anything improper, such as Mr Ws racial background.
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct Lloyds to:
Transfer the remaining balance it holds for Mr W without further delay, which includes 
the two redress payments it made to him of £126 and £50.
Add eight percent simple interest on that sum from 29 October 2020 to the date of 
payment.
Pay Mr W £25 to represent the cheque it sent him in September 2020, if that cheque 
hasnt already been cashed.
Pay Mr W £500 to compensate him for the unreasonable delay it caused by not 
paying him his balance since the end of October 2020.
Lloyds should ensure redress is paid in accordance with these directions within 28 days of 
being informed Mr W has accepted this decision.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr W 
compensation in accordance with the directions I have given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman