DRN-2749547
The complaint
Mr C complains that PDL Finance Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Using information from Mr C and PDL, a brief table of the approved loans is set out here. 
 
Loan Approved Amount repaid
1 2 October 2014 £180 10 February 2015
2 10 February 2015 £360 9 May 2015
3 10 May 2015 £750 11 August 2015
4 11 August 2015 £1,000 9 January 2016
5 9 January 2016 £840 31 March 2016
6 4 April 2016 £190 2 July 2016
7 2 July 2016 £390 30 December 2016
Break of almost two years 
8 2 December 2018 £210 18 January 2019
9 18 January 2019 £800 22 October 2019
10 27 October 2019 £400 2 December 2019
11 18 March 2020 £500 1 August 2020
12 1 August 2020 £520 19 August 2020
13 19 August 2020 £850 Unpaid
Loan 13 is unpaid, according to factual information given to me. But I have no details on that 
loan or the repayments made so far.
After Mr C had made his complaint to PDL, it sent to him its final response letter (FRL). In it 
PDL did decide that it ought to have done more for loans 4 to 7 and offered to recompense 
Mr C for these. They are highlighted in grey in the table above. 
Although Mr C did not accept that offer and referred his complaint to this Service, its 
important to note that PDL conceded in relation to the complaint for loans 4 to 7. So, it 
appears they are resolved. But I will address the redress element in the main body of this 
decision as it needs clarifying.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and she also thought that PDL should put things 
right for Mr C in relation to Loans 4 to 7. Our adjudicator thought that there was a break in 
the lending chain after loan 7. Loan 8 was the first loan in the new lending relationship 
between PDL and Mr C. Our adjudicator thought that PDL should put things right for Mr C in 
relation to loans 12 and 13 as well. 
In response to our adjudicators view, PDL repeated its acceptance of the loan 4 to 7 uphold. 
PDL did not agree with the outcome in relation to the second loan chain. It referred to the 
107 day gap in the lending after loan 10 and it thought that would make a difference to the 
outcome for loans 12 and 13. 
Mr Cs response demonstrates to me that he accepts our adjudicators view. In addition, 
Mr C has sent in additional information and has asked me to consider the interest and a 
default added to the final loan. A different point raised by Mr C relating to jurisdiction has 
been clarified by our adjudicator recently. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
- Mr C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- Mr C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
- Mr C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearlydemonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being
without undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
It seems that all parties agree that there were two loans chains here due to the large gap in 
lending between December 2016 and December 2018. That means that PDL was justified in 
treating Mr C as if he was a new customer when he came back to apply for loan 8 in 
December 2018. 
In relation to the first loan chain (loans 1 to 7) then as I have outlined earlier, PDL has 
accepted the loan 4 to 7 uphold as it had already identified those loans as being ones it 
needed to put right for Mr C. I do add these elements about our approach and what we 
would expect PDL to do to keep in line with that:
- the set off that PDL wishes to do cannot be done between two different loan chains. 
And I can see that in Mr Cs case the break was almost two years. And so, the 
redress sum, once calculated, must be paid to Mr C directly. Its a matter for him 
whether he uses that to help pay off any outstanding sum on any later loans; and
 
- that part of the redress relating to credit files included complete removal of loans 6 
and 7 from Mr Cs credit file.  
 
Moving on to the second loan chain  loans 8 to 13  then Ive considered carefully the loans 
in it. And Ive looked at the overall pattern of PDLs lending history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which it should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so PDL should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. Given the circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think that this point 
was reached by loan 12. I explain why I think this in the following paragraphs.
I have thought carefully about the period of time between loans 10 and 11 during which Mr C 
was not in debt to PDL. Still this was not a long enough gap to break the lending 
relationship, but I have taken it into account when looking at it overall. Even with that gap still 
I think that PDL ought to have realised that a pattern was emerging, and that by loan 12 
Mr C seemed to be taking loans often and relatively quickly. I say this because:
Loan 12 was approved immediately Loan 11 was repaid and even with the gap, 
looking back on the loan history, Mr C had been declaring larger expenditure figures 
on other loans and was taking loans soon after repaying the previous one; and 
Mr C wasnt making any real inroads into the amount he owed PDL. Loan 13 was 
taken out after being in debt with PDL for 17 months overall (20 months 
chronologically) and it was for a larger amount - £850. That was four times larger 
than loan 8  the first in the second loan chain. Mr C had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to PDL over an extended period.
I think that Mr C lost out because PDL continued to provide borrowing from loan 12 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period; and
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about loans 12 and 13 in the second loan chain, and PDL 
should put things right.
 
Mr C has asked that I look at the issue of the default for loan 13. Considering the uphold of 
loan 13 and the redress direction that Mr Cs credit file is amended to remove the loan 
completely from his credit file, then that default should fall away too. And so, the effect of 
that default will be negated. I hope that this satisfies Mr C on that point.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress PDL should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr C from loan 4 in loan chain one and from 
loan 12 in the second loan chain, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a great 
many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr C in a 
compliant way at this time.Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce PDLs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
LOAN CHAIN ONE 
PDL has said that it is content to recompense Mr C for loans 4 to 7. I understand that these 
have been repaid. In the interests of clarity, and to pick up on the point about set-off as 
addressed earlier in this decision, I outline here what PDL ought to do: 
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 4 to 7; and 
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Cs credit file; and
the number of loans taken loan 6 onwards in this first loan chain means any 
information recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 6 and 7 
should be removed from Mr Cs credit file.
The redress resulting from this part of the complaint is not to be used to off-set any money 
Mr C may owe to PDL on the outstanding loan 13 as that relates to a completely different 
loan chain. The money must be paid directly to Mr C. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to deduct tax from this interest. PDL should give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax PDL has deducted, if he asks for one.
LOAN CHAIN TWO 
PDL ought not to have approved loans 12 and 13 for Mr C. I understand that Loan 13 
remains outstanding. PDL ought to do as follows:
If PDL has sold the outstanding debt PDL should buy it back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If PDL is not able to buy the debt back then PDL should liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) PDL should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest,
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
PDL have already refunded.
B) PDL should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) PDL should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr C as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans in loan chain two. 
If this results in Mr C having made overpayments then PDL should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. PDL should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr C. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then PDL should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr C. PDL shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal 
PDL have already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing for loans 12 and 13 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so PDL should remove these loans entirely from Mr Cs 
credit file. 
PDL does not have to remove loan 13 from Mr Cs credit file until it has been repaid, but PDL 
should still remove any adverse information recorded about it  including the default to which 
Mr C refers. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to deduct tax from this interest. PDL should give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax PDL has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and direct that PDL Finance 
Limited does as I have outlined above for each of the loan chains as described. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman