DRN-3235581
The complaint
Ms M complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt settled a claim under her 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms M held a travel insurance policy which covered a trip between 5 November 2019 and 
4 August 2020. The insurer was URV. Ms M had booked a trip which included stops at 
several different countries.
While Ms M was already abroad, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office 
(FCDO  formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but 
essential international travel from 17 March 2020 onwards. On 19 March 2020, Ms M 
changed her return flights back to the UK and she curtailed her trip on 21 March 2020.
Ms M made a claim to URV for the losses she incurred in having to curtail her trip. She says 
the policy terms are ambiguous on whether shes covered in the event the FCDO advice 
changes after departure from the UK. She says the cancellation and curtailment sections of 
the policy are clear that shes not covered under the policy due to a change in FCDO advice 
at the time of departure. But she says theres nothing to say what this means if the advice 
comes into force after departure.
Ms M says URVs advice online said that as the FCDO was advising against all but essential 
international travel, and as the UK government was urging people to return to the UK, URV 
would be unable to continue insurance coverage beyond the date the policyholder was 
physically able to return to the UK. 
URV declined the claim because Ms Ms policy doesnt cover curtailment due to a change in 
FCDO advice. URV also said it does offer policies that cover this, but the one Ms M had 
bought didnt. So, Ms M brought a complaint to our service. Ms M says URV should either 
pay her claim or refund her the premium she paid for the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the reason Ms M curtailed her trip 
wasnt covered under the relevant terms of the policy. She said that the policy didnt 
specifically exclude the situation either  but she didnt think it needed to. Our investigator 
thought that as the policy only excluded cover due a change in FCDO advice at the time of 
departure, rather than after, the policy wouldve still covered Ms M if she chose to continue 
her trip.
Ms M didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint in December 2021. Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M says she had to cut her trip short due to the change in FCDO advice. Ms M changed 
her return flights to the UK on 19 March 2020 to depart on 21 March 2020. The FCDO 
advised UK nationals to return home from 23 March 2020 onwards.
The relevant section of Ms Ms policy covers curtailment for:
your early return home because of the death, injury or illness of:
-you or a friend with whom you are travelling.
-a close relative who lives in your home country.
-a close business associate who lives in your home country; or
-the person you are staying with.
or
you, a friend or close relative who is travelling with you being required in your home 
country for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
or
you, a friend, business associate or close relative who is travelling with you being called 
back by the Police after your home, or the home in your home country of your friend, 
business associate or close relative, or usual place of business in your home country, 
having suffered from burglary, serious fire, storm or flood.
Curtailment due to a change in FCDO advice isnt one of the specific listed insured events 
under this section of the policy. I agree with Ms M that theres no specific exclusion on 
whether theres cover if the FCDO advice changes after the trip has already started. But I 
dont think that makes a difference in the circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see that Ms M was due to continue her trip to Australia on 19 March 2020. But on that 
day, the Australian government announced that Australia would close its borders to all non-
residents effective from 20 March 2020 (when Ms M was due to arrive). I can also see that 
other countries on Ms Ms remaining itinerary closed borders to tourists around the same 
time, or shortly after.
The general conditions and exclusions applying to the policy are on page 11 of the terms 
and conditions. These say that theres no cover under any section of the policy in the 
following circumstances: Delay, confiscation, detention, requisition, damage, destruction or 
any prohibitive regulations by Customs or other government officials or authorities of any 
country.
Its difficult to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Ms Ms claim. A 
combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and government restrictions 
in Australia  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on Ms Ms decision to curtail her 
trip. But whats clear is that at the time Ms M curtailed her trip on 21 March 2020, the 
Australian government restrictions on travel were in force. So, not only is the reason for 
curtailment of the trip not covered as a listed insured event, I think the exclusion Ive quoted 
applies in the circumstances of this claim anyway. It looks like Ms M might just have been able to enter Australia before the borders closed, 
based on the timings. But as the Australian government had already announced the 
prohibitive regulations, I think the exclusion still applies.
For completeness sake, I also note that Ms M only incurred a booking charge of £75 when 
she curtailed her trip. The travel agent paid for her new return flights with the cancelled 
original return flights. And the curtailment section of the policy excludes claims for booking 
charges.
Overall, I think URV acted fairly and reasonably in declining Ms Ms claim. I dont think 
theres anything else it needs to do, to put things right.
Ive then thought about what Ms M has said about her premium. Its a fundamental principle 
of insurance law that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. Fundamentally, I think Ms M benefitted from having the 
policy during her trip. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds in the 
circumstances of this complaint upon which I could fairly ask URV to refund any of her 
premiums.
Both Ms M and URV responded to my provisional decision to say they had nothing further to 
add. So, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything new to think about, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings I reached in my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same decision, and for 
the same reasons.
Taking everything into account, I think URV acted fairly and reasonably in declining Ms Ms 
claim. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds in the circumstances of this 
complaint upon which I could fairly ask URV to refund any of her premiums. So, I dont think 
theres anything URV needs to do, to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Ms Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman