DRN-3957103
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled a claim 
she made under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs M contacted her home emergency insurer on 5 August 2022. She explained that water 
had come through from the loft, damaging her bathroom ceiling.
RSA appointed a contractor to visit Mrs Ms property and look at the issue. They said there 
was a vent that water was leaking into, and they completed a temporary repair to resolve the 
immediate emergency. Its my understanding that Mrs M was then sent an email, noting that 
she would need to arrange for a permanent repair to be completed.
However, Mrs M was unhappy with this. She has explained that in February 2022, she had 
contacted RSA for the same issue water damaging her bathroom ceiling, coming from the 
loft. Mrs M said there was an initial contractor that visited her home to look at the issue  but 
Mrs M didnt feel they had carried out a proper investigation of the problem. Because of this, 
a second contractor visited, reviewed the issue, and carried out a repair. 
Mrs M said she was told the issue was fixed. So, Mrs M thought the repair the second 
contractor had completed was a permanent one. And no more action needed to be taken. 
But Mrs M said this wasnt the case  as the issue had happened again in August 2022. And 
she considered this damage could have been avoided, if she had been told the initial repair 
in February 2022 had been temporary.
RSA considered Mrs Ms concerns. On 16 August 2022 it wrote to Mrs M and said that it 
couldnt see the initial contractor that had attended Mrs Ms property in February 2022 had 
done anything wrong. RSA said it was reasonably satisfied that the diagnosis from both 
contractors that visited Mrs Ms property was the same. But that the first contractor had 
quoted for a permanent repair  meaning Mrs M had to pay some money towards the job  
as her policy only covered three hours of labour and £150 in materials. And the second 
contractor had completed a temporary fix.
On 27 September 2022 RSA wrote to Mrs M again. It said the policy provided for a 
temporary repair only, unless a permanent repair could be completed at a similar cost. RSA 
said that it didnt consider that the issue in August 2022 was due to a failed repair completed 
in the February. 
Mrs M remained dissatisfied. As she remained dissatisfied, Mrs M referred her complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator noted they hadnt seen anything from February 2022 that showed Mrs M was 
told the repair was temporary. But she didnt think RSA needed to do this  because the 
policy provided for a temporary repair, rather than a permanent one. With a permanent one 
only being provided if it was at a similar cost. So, she considered that Mrs M should have 
been aware a temporary fix was likely what had been completed. Our investigator said 
because of this, she didnt think RSA was responsible for repairing or paying for any further 
damage.
Our investigator said that RSA had acted fairly by coming out to the property again in August 
2022 and completing a further temporary repair.  
Mrs M disagreed. In summary, Mrs M said that:
Her policy noted a temporary repair, or a permanent repair would be completed, so 
she didnt think it was reasonable for RSA to default to a temporary repair. 
Following the visit in August 2022 she was informed a temporary fix had been 
completed, and so this should have been the case in February 2022. 
Shed used the policy for other issues before, and always received a permanent fix.
The second contractor that had visited in February 2022 had told her the issue was 
fixed. So, she understood this to be permanent. 
Because Mrs M didnt agree, her complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate this is going to be disappointing for Mrs M. Its clear she feels strongly about the 
matter. But Id like to reassure the parties that I have considered all information submitted to 
this service when coming to my decision. But when explaining my reasoning below Ive only 
referred to that which I consider relevant to explaining my outcome.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether RSA 
acted in line with these requirements, when dealing with Mrs Ms claim. 
Ive also reviewed Mrs Ms policy documentation, to see what cover her policy provided. On 
doing so, I can see the following is detailed  in relation to roofing:
What is Covered?
Emergency repairs following missing, broken or loose tiles causing internal water damage.
And in relation to how the cover works, it says:This policy covers temporary repairs, or a permanent repair where this can be done at a 
similar cost and there is no temporary repair available. If our contractor there is no 
temporary, permanent or economical repair available, then cover will cease under this 
insurance.
A temporary repair is defined as a repair or resolution which will resolve an emergency and 
is predicted to last at least 72 hours. A temporary repair or resolution will need to be 
replaced with a permanent repair.
Given the above, Im aware the policy provides cover for a temporary repair  to resolve an 
immediate emergency. The policy isnt designed to provide permanent repairs, and one will 
only be done where there is no temporary repair available, and a permanent repair can be 
done at a similar cost.  
So, in terms of Mrs Ms case, RSA would only need to visit the property and complete a 
temporary fix for the issue with the water entering the home. Ive seen the invoice for the 
work carried out in February 2022  and can see this explained that slates had slipped at the 
extractor fan, which was causing water penetration. The contractor re-fixed the sales to 
make the property watertight and re-fixed some slipped slates at the front of the property. 
Having looked at this invoice, Im satisfied RSA did complete a temporary repair, as per the 
policy, to ensure the property was watertight. 
Mrs M has said she wasnt told the repair in February 2022 was temporary. But I dont think 
RSA needed to do so. The policy is clear that it provides a temporary repair, so I dont think 
it would need to reiterate this to Mrs M. Rather, I think RSA would have needed to inform 
Mrs M if it had completed a permanent repair, given the limited circumstances this would be 
completed in.
Following a temporary repair, its the policyholders responsibility to ensure their home 
receives a permanent repair. So, I dont hold RSA accountable for any further damage 
caused to Mrs Ms home, because a permanent repair wasnt carried out. Im satisfied that 
RSA coming out again in August 2022, and completing a further temporary repair was 
sufficient for it to do  in line with the policy terms. 
Mrs M has said that in August 2022 she was informed the repair was only temporary after it 
had been carried out. So, she would have expected the same in February 2022. But, as 
above, I dont think RSA is obligated to do this, given the clarity of the policy. Its possible it 
took the decision to do this, given the concerns Mrs M had raised about the previous repair, 
so as to provide additional clarity. But I dont think it needed to do this in February 2022. So, 
this point doesnt change the outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do anything more in respect of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman