DRN-3672512
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs S complain that when Aviva Insurance Limited replaced the ball valve in their
cold-water tank in January 2019, they used the wrong type of valve. This then failed in
March 2021 flooding their boiler which had only been fitted in July 2020. They want Aviva to
cover the cost of replacing their boiler. They also complain about the poor customer service
theyve received from Aviva.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs S have household insurance with Aviva. In January 2019 they had a leak from
their cold-water tank. Avivas engineer attended their property and replaced the ball valve in
the tank.
Mr L and Mrs S had their boiler replaced in July 2020. In March 2021 their central heating
system failed. They called out the company whod installed their new boiler and they initially
thought the problem was due to low pressure in the system. They repressurised the system
but it failed again the following day.
The engineer said that the boiler was showing a fault code, indicating a possible blocked
condensate pipe. When he removed the pipe to check for problems, he found it and the
boiler were full of water. He turned off the water and drained the storage tank and
discovered that the overflow from the tank had been connected into the condensate
pipework.
He says this shouldnt have been done as the condensate is part of the drainage system. He
located and removed the connection and fitted a new overflow pipe out of the wall to the
front of Mr L and Mrs Ss property.
When the water was turned back on the existing ball valve wouldnt turn off and overflowed
at a rapid rate. He checked the ball valve in the storage tank, and it was a part 1 type ball
valve and the washer inside was in very poor condition. As type 1 ball valves shouldnt be 
used in domestic storage tanks, he says he replaced it with a new part 2 valve and float.
He said the ball valve had failed and the condensate pipework couldnt handle the flow rate
of water coming from the overflowing tank, which then backed up into the boiler causing
damage.
Mr L contacted Aviva who said theyd send an engineer out to inspect the damaged boiler.
He says he explained clearly when he called them that the failed ball valve had already been
replaced and he just needed them to confirm that the boiler was beyond economic repair.
When Avivas engineer attended the following day, he told Mr L and Mrs S that he was there
to change a ball valve. The engineer said he knew nothing about boilers and couldnt help.
When Mr L called Aviva about this, he was told that the engineers report said hed been
denied access to their loft to change the ball valve. Mr L was very surprised by this as the
property doesnt have a loft. Mr L was told Aviva would send another engineer the following
day, but no one turned up despite Mrs S waiting in all day.
Mr L had to call Aviva again and a further appointment was arranged for 29 March 2021. Mr
L says hed told Aviva that their boiler was being replaced on that date, so their engineer
could speak to his if he arrived when the new boiler was being fitted. Mr L says Avivas
engineer was given full access to the damaged boiler but didnt examine it and was at their
property for only seven minutes. He then reported to Aviva that the boiler had already been
removed from the wall by Mr Ls engineer.
Looking at the records Aviva have provided from January 2019 these state that a Part 2 side
entry high pressure ball valve was fitted in the cold-water tank. And that a further visit was
required to clip the cold feed pipe to the wall to stop the noise Mr L had reported after the
ball valve was replaced.
Mr L and Mrs S raised a complaint with Aviva. The complaint wasnt upheld as Aviva said
their records showed the correct type of ball valve was fitted in 2019 and this was
guaranteed for a year. They also said that the condensate pipe hadnt been installed
correctly and this is what let water leak into their boiler. As this wasnt installed by them, they
didnt accept responsibility for the leak, or the damage caused to the boiler.
Regarding the engineers visits Aviva said the first engineer wasnt given permission to open
the boiler casing but looking around the boiler he couldnt see any signs of water damage.
And he wasnt given permission to install the cold-water tank. And their second engineer
reported the boiler had already been removed from the wall.
So Aviva didnt uphold Mr L and Mrs Ss complaint but did offer them £150 for the missed
appointment and delays in resolving their complaint.
Mr L and Mrs S werent happy and complained to our service.
Mr L provided some further information from his engineer about what had caused the water
leak and the damage to his boiler. The engineer said the fault leading to the problem was
that the ball valve in the cold-water tank had started to let water through, which caused the
tank to overflow. He was surprised to find a part 1 ball valve had been fitted, as a part 2 ball
valve had been the standard type to be fitted in domestic properties for some years.
He confirmed that the storage tank and the condensate pipe should never have been
connected but says this was hidden behind a wall where the storage tank was situated. He
also said there must be a restriction between the tank and the drainage system as the
overflow can cope with the amount of condensate the boiler produces. But when the ball
valve failed it couldnt take away that amount of water, this caused the overflowing water to
back up into the boiler damaging several components.
Our investigator considered the case and didnt think Aviva had treated Mr L and Mrs S
fairly. He accepted that the failure of the ball valve fitted to their cold-water tank had caused
the damage to their boiler. So he said Aviva should pay them the £1541.93 theyd paid for
the replacement boiler and a further £100 for the poor way in which their claim had been
handled.
Aviva didnt accept our investigators opinion. They said the type of ball valve that had been
fitted was irrelevant. The ball valve theyd fitted was satisfactory for the job and Mr L and Mrs
Ss boiler was damaged because the overflow pipework had been connected to the
condensate discharge pipework. And their engineer wouldnt have been able to establish
there was a problem with the installation when he fitted the new ball valve, as the pipework
was boxed in behind a wall. They also said an air break should have been fitted to prevent
the boiler from flooding in the event that the discharge pipework became blocked.Our investigator considered what Aviva had said but still felt that they were responsible for
the damage caused to Mr L and Mrs Ss boiler.
He said this because he thought it was more likely than not that the leak in the tank was
caused by the ball valve failing. While this was fitted in January 2019 and only guaranteed
for 12 months, he said he wouldnt have expected a ball valve to fail after such a short length
of time. And he accepted what Mr L and Mrs Ss engineer had said about the type of ball
valve that had been fitted, as hed had the opportunity to inspect and replace it.
Our investigator acknowledged that that ball valve failing in the water tank wouldnt have
caused the boiler to flood on its own. But he was satisfied that the leak in the tank would
have caused some damage however the plumbing was done. He was satisfied that the leak
was caused by the failure of the ball valve, and that it was reasonable to hold Aviva
responsible for this. So he maintained that Aviva should refund Mr L and Mrs S the
£1,541.13 theyd paid for the replacement boiler, and pay £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by how theyd handled the claim.
Aviva responded to our investigators updated opinion stating that hed ignored what theyd
said about the damage being caused by an incorrect installation, which had nothing to do
with the work they completed. They repeated that the type of valve that was used was
irrelevant, and that the part that failed was only guaranteed for 12 months and its not
unknown for a part to fail after this time.
Our investigator responded saying he was more persuaded by the evidence from Mr L and
Mrs Ss engineer that the ball valve caused the leak, not the incorrect plumbing. And he
thought it likely that Avivas engineer made mistakes when he fitted the ball valve in 2019,
which is why he thought they were responsible for the leak and the damage caused by it.
In response to this Aviva have said that theyd provided evidence that a part 2 ball valve was
fitted. And had the part been faulty when fitted, or something went wrong with the
workmanship, it would have failed straight away, not almost two years later.
Since our investigator provided his further opinion, weve asked Mr L and Mrs Ss engineer
to comment on what he believes would have happened had the ball valve failed, but the
condensate pipe hadnt been wrongly connected to the cold-water tank.
Hes said that if the overflow pipe had been correctly installed, when the ball valve began to
fail, the overflow pipe would have discharged onto the path to the front of Mr L and Mrs Ss 
house. But as the overflow didnt have an external discharge, as it was plumbed into the
waste system, this meant that there was no sign that the ball valve needed servicing prior to
the flooding of the boiler. Hes also said that the previous owner of the property had hidden a
lot of pipework behind stud walls, so it wasnt possible to see the connection between the
boiler condensate pipework and the storage tank overflow.
Weve sent Mr L and Mrs S a copy of the comments made by their engineer. Theyve said
that they understand that the condensate pipe was wrongly connected. But say the failure of
the ball valve previously replaced by Aviva caused the damage to their boiler. The repair
Aviva carried out in 2019 didnt identify the issue with the pipework and they fitted the wrong
type of ball valve which failed. So they think Aviva should pay for the damaged boiler, and
they dont understand the relevance of the condensate pipe plumbing.
The case then came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 5 August 2022. And in it I said: -Theres a dispute between the parties as to the type of ball valve fitted by Avivas engineer in
2019. Mr L and Mrs Ss engineer had the opportunity to inspect the failed ball valve before
he replaced it, and Im persuaded by his evidence that it was a type 1, rather than the
required type 2 ball valve. I also accept his evidence that the valve and washer were in a
poor condition.
I dont accept Avivas argument that the replacement ball valve was only guaranteed for a
year so they cant be held responsible for the leak. I think that Avivas engineer fitted the
wrong ball valve in 2019, and that fitting a valve that wasnt considered suitable for domestic
properties contributed to the premature failure of the ball valve and the leak from Mr L and
Mrs Ss cold-water tank.
But I also have to consider if Aviva are responsible for the consequences of that leak. And
based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think they are. Its not disputed by the parties that
the outflow pipe from the storage tank had been wrongly connected to the boilers
condensate pipe. This appears to have been done before Mr L and Mrs S bought their
property. And the previous owner had hidden a lot of the pipework behind stud walls. So its
not something that would have been obvious to Avivas engineer, when he replaced the ball
valve in 2019, or to Mr L and Mrs Ss engineers when they fitted the new boiler in 2020.
Aviva have said that the wrongly connected pipework caused the boiler to flood when the
ball valve failed. And Mr L and Mrs Ss engineer has said that if the overflow pipe hadnt
been connected to the condensate pipe, when the ball valve failed the overflow pipe would
have discharged the water onto the path to the front of their property, rather than into their
boiler. And they might have had warning that the ball valve was starting to fail from water
starting to overflow from the pipe.
Ive considered what Mr L and Mrs S have said about Aviva not identifying the issue with the
wrong connection of the overflow pipe. Had the pipework not been hidden, then I think this
would be a fair comment. But it was hidden, and I wouldnt expect Aviva to search behind
stud walls to check pipework. And it could be said that when Mr L and Mrs Ss engineer fitted
their new boiler in 2020 there was more reason for them to check the pipework was all
correct, but this doesnt appear to have been done.
So while I think Aviva were responsible for fitting the wrong ball valve, which failed causing 
water to leak from their cold water storage tank, theyre not responsible for this flooding Mr L
and Mrs Ss boiler. As the water would have discharged safely through the overflow pipe if
this hadnt been wrongly connected. It follows that I dont require Aviva to cover the cost of
replacing Mr L and Mrs Ss boiler.
But I do think Mr L and Mrs Ss claim has been handled poorly by Aviva. They didnt listen to
the information provided to them about what had happened and sent engineers to Mr L and
Mrs Ss property with incorrect instructions. I accept Mr Ls evidence about what happened
when the engineers attended. So I also accept that the engineers then provided incorrect
reports, which suggested they were unable to complete the job they were sent to do, as they
were refused appropriate access. This is illustrated by the engineer saying he was refused
access to the loft when the property has no loft.
Aviva have offered Mr L and Mrs S £150 for the missed appointment. I think this is
reasonable for the missed appointment, but its not enough to compensate them for the
distress and inconvenience caused by the poor customer service Aviva provided. Taking
everything into account I think £250, in addition to the £150 previously offered, is the correct
amount.
So my provisional decision was that I partially upheld the complaint saying that Aviva should pay additional compensation to Mr L and Mrs S for the poor customer service theyd 
provided. But I didnt require them to meet the cost of Mr L and Mrs Ss new boiler.  
Aviva have responded to my provisional decision saying they have nothing to add.
Mr L and Mrs S have indicated that they dont accept my provisional decision. Theyve said 
the following: -
Ive accepted that the valve in the cold-water tank failed causing water to leak from the tank. 
In 2019 when the valve first failed, water didnt escape through the overflow pipe, it came 
through the ceiling on the ground floor of their three-storey house. When this happened they 
say Aviva didnt question why the water hadnt discharged through the overflow pipe. They 
just paid their claim. 
So they think Aviva should now pay their claim for any consequential loss arising from the 
failure of the valve they fitted in 2019. As they say the engineer who replaced the failed valve 
in 2019 didnt check the functioning of the overflow, wasnt up to speed with the latest 
building codes and either didnt know the difference between a part one and part two valve, 
or wrongly recorded hed fitted a part two valve, when hed fitted a part one valve. They think 
Aviva should have identified the problem with the connection of the overflow pipe in 2019, 
and as they didnt they should cover the cost of their ruined boiler, which wouldnt have 
flooded if the overflow had been connected correctly.
Theyve also said that they were told by Aviva to raise a complaint about the failure of the 
valve fitted in 2019, rather than making a new claim which might have an impact on their 
future premiums. They believe that had they submitted a claim Aviva would have paid this as 
they did in 2019.
And theyve told us there was some damage to the walls and ceiling on their lower floors, as 
water escaped from the flooded boiler. They didnt claim for this as they had plans to 
redecorate anyway, but theyd made Aviva aware of this.
So they still think Aviva should pay for the cost of their replacement boiler. Theyve said 
theyd be willing to accept a compromise to conclude the case, but it would need to be 
significantly closer to the cost of the replacement boiler.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties dont dispute that Mr L and Mrs Ss boiler wouldnt have flooded had the overflow 
pipe not been wrongly connected. The connection of the overflow pipe to the boilers 
condensate pipe appears to pre-date Mr L and Mrs Ss ownership of their property. And we 
know that the cold-water tank is in a cupboard and the pipework is behind stud walls.
I considered in my provisional decision whether it was reasonable to say Aviva should have 
identified the faulty connection. And I said that because the pipework was hidden, I didnt 
think the problem would have been obvious and I wouldnt expect them to remove stud walls 
to check pipework. Ive considered what Mr L and Mrs S have said and I havent changed 
my mind about this. 
In 2019 Aviva dealt with damage caused by a failed valve in a cold-water tank. From what 
Mr L and Mrs S have told us about the damage it appears consistent with a failed valve. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to cover the necessary repairs and not investigate further. Had the pipework not been hidden behind stud walls then my opinion on this might 
be different.
Mr L and Mrs S only had a new boiler fitted in 2020, so I understand their concern and 
distress that it was damaged and needed replacement so soon after it was installed. But I 
would expect the engineer who installed the boiler to check the pipework and boiler 
connections. And if he didnt pick up that the overflow was connected to the condensate 
pipe, it would be unreasonable for me to say that an engineer replacing a valve in the cold-
water tank should have identified this.
From the information Ive considered I cant see that Mr L and Mrs S have raised a complaint 
with Aviva about being advised not to submit a further claim, but to raise a complaint instead. 
So Im not able to consider this. And Im unable to comment on how Aviva would have dealt 
with a claim and one been made. I appreciate that there was further damage beyond the 
flooded boiler, but as they told Aviva they didnt want to claim for this its not something Id 
have expected Aviva to consider.
While I understand Mr L and Mrs Ss concerns about having to replace their boiler so soon 
after it was installed, I dont think the Aviva are responsible for the damage and I wont be 
asking them to cover the cost of replacing it, or to make any contribution towards that cost.
But I remain of the view that Aviva provided poor customer service to Mr L and Mrs S.  Aviva 
have offered Mr L and Mrs S £150 for the missed appointment. I think this is reasonable for 
the missed appointment, but its not enough to compensate them for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the poor customer service Aviva provided. Taking everything into 
account I think £250, in addition to the £150 previously offered, is the correct amount.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partially uphold Mr L and Mrs Ss complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited.
And to put things right I require them to pay a further £250 compensation, in addition to the 
£150 they offered for the missed appointment, for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the poor customer service theyve provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman