DRN-3088296
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited has mishandled a claim he made on his 
mortgage payment protection insurance because:
There was a lack of communication and delays, with incorrect information being 
provided about the maximum claim period. 
The monthly benefit is incorrect because it does not include a refund of premiums in 
addition to the monthly benefit amount.
What happened
With regard to the first part of Mr Ss complaint, Aviva accepted that there were failings in the 
way that it managed the claim. It originally offered £200 compensation which it later 
increased to £400. Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that £500 would be a 
more appropriate amount to compensate Mr S for the errors that occurred and the impact 
that it had on him. Mr S has told us that he is pleased with this outcome.
However, our adjudicator thought that Avivas monthly payouts for the claim were 
reasonable and so he did not uphold this part of Mr Ss complaint. Mr S disagrees with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy document states:
You should continue to pay your premiums in full and on time during your claim. These 
premiums will be refunded to you along with your benefit payment to the bank account that 
we collected them from.
The policy defines Monthly benefit as: the amount of money that we will pay you each 
month if you make a claim under the policy.
Mr Ss latest policy schedule shows the monthly benefit as £540.18. It also says that the 
monthly amount due is £30.18.
Aviva has paid Mr S £540.18 per month which it says is made up of £510 benefit plus a 
refund of his £30.18 per month premiums. 
The policy has been set up to provide base cover of £510. Aviva has said that, at times 
when the premiums were cheaper, the annual schedules sent to Mr S reflected that. For 
example, showing a monthly benefit of £539.89 at a time when the premiums were £29.89, 
thus demonstrating that the core benefit was £510.
Regardless of that, Mr S believes that the policy wording entitles him to receive a claims 
payout of £570.36. Thats because the policy schedule shows the benefit amount of £540.18 
as a distinct and separate figure to the monthly premium amount of £30.18. As the policy 
states that a policyholders premiums will be refunded to them along with the benefit 
payment, Mr S interprets that as meaning that the two sums should be added together to 
form his total monthly payout.
I consider that the intention of the policy, in the event of a successful claim, is to pay a 
chosen level of benefit plus a refund of premiums. The terms say that Mr S will get refunded 
the premiums. They do not say that Aviva will refund double the premiums. 
Furthermore, I doubt that when taking out mortgage payment protection, most people would 
think that the monthly benefit of the policy would be the amount of cover they have chosen 
plus twice the amount of their policy premiums. Therefore, whilst I can understand why Mr S 
has interpreted the policy wording in this particular way, Im not persuaded that most people 
would. This service has received no other complaints of this nature.
I appreciate Mr Ss point of view. Aviva could have written the terms more clearly. Ive 
thought very carefully about what Mr S has said and the arguments he has presented, 
including the legal arguments. However, based on what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, Im unable to conclude that Aviva should pay Mr S more than £540.18 per 
month. Overall, I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable to interpret the policy terms 
in the way that Mr S has.
My final decision
My decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ss complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr 
S a total of £500 compensation for the errors in handling his complaint. However, the correct 
monthly benefit has been paid to Mr S and so I make no award for that part of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman