DRN-3842692
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Agria Pet Insurance Ltd unreasonably refused to pay her claims 
under her pet policy because it said the condition claimed arose during the waiting period 
when the policy started. 
What happened
Mrs P bought her pet policy with Agria to start on 13 November 2021 for her cat who was 
born in July 2021. She also appears to have had an initial four-week cover with another 
insurer, presumably supplied by the cats breeder. This Agria policy had a 10-day waiting 
period where no claims which arose in that time would be covered. The 10-day period 
expired on 22 November 2021.
On 18 November 2021 Mrs P attended the emergency vets with her cat who had become 
lethargic, had smelly faeces, reduced appetite, and vomiting. She attended her own vet the 
next day who admitted her cat for treatment from 19 November to 22 November 2021. 
During this admission the vet sent off a stool sample for analysis. That came back with 
cryptosporidium, giardia, and coronavirus antibodies. Treatment primarily for giardia 
commenced and Mrs P said her cat improved. Some treatment was given for 
cryptosporidium, but Mrs P said the treatment was too harsh on her cat, so it was stopped. 
Around this time Mrs Ps vet warned that given the existence of coronavirus antibodies in the 
stool sample, her cats condition could mutate into Feline Infectious Peritonitis (FIP). 
Another stool sample was done on 17 December 2021 which then showed no signs of 
cryptosporidium or giardia. Unfortunately, Mrs Ps cat then became ill again and was referred 
to a university vet hospital on 8 January 2022 where FIP was diagnosed. This condition is 
only recently treatable with Remdesivir. Before the availability of this medication, FIP was 
invariably fatal for cats. 
So, Mrs P presented her claims to Agria for payment. These were as follows:
£544.55 for gastrointestinal disorder for treatment on 18 November 2021 and from 20 
November to 22 November 2021. 
£369.40 also for gastrointestinal issue dated 11 January 2022. 
£2,465.71 for FIP dated 11 January 2022.
£8,418.39 for FIP dated 8 January 2022.
Making the total £11,798.05. Within Mrs P submissions there does appear to be some 
confusion as to what claims her vets made to Agria, which Agria does not appear to have 
clarified for her. Within Agrias files these were the claims it received however in its rejection 
of her claims, it never identified which claims or the amounts it was rejecting.  
Agria decided on the basis of what its vet adviser said that the condition of Mrs Ps cat which 
ultimately resulted in FIP started in the waiting period so was excluded and all her claims 
were declined.
Mrs P appealed but Agria wouldnt change its stance, so she brought her complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs P disagreed so her complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 22 November 2022 and I said the following: 
First, I want to thank Mrs P for the extensive research she has done throughout what 
must have been such a stressful time for her, which has greatly helped my 
understanding of the matter.
Agrias policy like almost every other pet policy has a waiting period at the 
commencement of the policy which precludes paying for any claims or conditions which started in that waiting period. Agrias policy like almost every other policy also 
doesnt provide cover for any pre-existing conditions. 
The policy specifically says the following in defining an illness in the first 10 days:
An illness or behavioural disorder that first showed clinical signs 
in the first 10 days after your policy started; or
An illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical 
signs as an illness or clinical sign your cat had in the first 10 days 
after your policy started; or
An illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an illness or 
clinical sign your cat had in the first 10 days after your policy 
started;
Even if the illness or clinical sign(s) appear or happen in, or on, different 
parts of your cats body.
Clinical signs are defined as:
Changes to your cats normal healthy state, its physical appearance, its 
bodily functions or behaviour.
Illness is defined as:
Any change to your cats normal healthy state; sickness, disease, bilateral 
disorder, defects and abnormalities, including defects and abnormalities your 
cat was born with or which were passed on by its parents.
I consider that any treatment costs which were incurred before 22 November 2021 
cannot be claimed as they clearly arose in the waiting period of the policy. Any 
subsequent costs relating to the conditions which arose in the waiting period likewise 
are excluded. Therefore, I consider the costs relating to the treatment and diagnosis 
of the cryptosporidium and giardia which clearly was present before 22 November 
2021 are excluded. This is because these parasites were found on the stool sample 
on 18 November 2022 but not on the stool sample dated 17 December 2021 
following treatment for both. 
Agria argues that because the coronavirus antibodies were found on both stool 
samples in November and December 2021, which would be the only reason Mrs Ps 
cat went onto to develop FIP, that similarly means any costs in relation to diagnosing 
and treating FIP in her cat is likewise excluded but I dont agree its that simple. 
Simply because the literature is clear that the existence of coronavirus antibodies 
does not mean that every cat goes on to develop FIP. I shall look at this in detail later 
in my decision. 
First, Im particularly persuaded by Agrias own vet expert on this which mirrors what 
Mrs P has discovered, as he says the following: 
Lots of cats are mildly affected by corona virus, usually causing a transient 
diarrhoea, in a small minority of cases this will mutate at a later date into 
either dry or wet FIP.  
For many years FIP was considered incurable and for that reason significant 
insurance claims for its treatment would have been very rare. It is only really in the last year or so since a licensed product that is very effective (and 
costly) has come to market that the problem of what significance pre existing 
corona virus infection has on insurance claims will have surfaced.
I do have some sympathy with the client [Mrs P] when they say (paraphrased 
here) that if they had not consented to a faecal examination when the kitten 
had diarrhoea then the pre existing coronavirus infection would not have been 
disclosed. That would have put them in the same position as clients with FIP 
cases that had not had significant gastrointestinal signs and thus no 
disclosure of corona virus infection. Those claims would have been honoured, 
I assume, had signs arisen after the initial 2 week waiting period post policy 
inception. In retrospect however we know that all of those FIP cases will 
have had a pre existing corona virus infection in order for it to mutate 
and cause FIP. [My emphasis]. 
The owner does over interpret the fact that the presence of corona 
antibodies or faecal coronavirus doesnt act as a prognostic indicator 
for FIP in the future, shes right it doesnt but once FIP has been 
confirmed then previous coronavirus infection is obviously the 
precursor. [My emphasis]. It depends whether you are looking at that finding 
before or after confirmation of FIP.
However, it does seem incongruous to deny claims where the initial 
corona virus was identified and to allow those where it was not, when 
we know in retrospect it must have been present. [My emphasis]
This is I suppose a test case because the treatment of FIP is only going to 
increase and all of them will have had a precursor of relatively innocuous 
coronavirus infection either identified or otherwise.
My conclusion here would be that if the initial gastroenteritis signs (before 
there was any significant evidence of FIP) began within the waiting period 
then that claim should be declined in line with the terms of the policy.
However as:
1. The development of FIP could not have been anticipated at inception,
2. There were no signs consistently associated with FIP at inception or 
during the waiting period,
3. All FIP cases whether investigated for enteric corona virus or not will 
have had it, and acquired it prior to transfer of ownership
Then it would seem reasonable to allow the claim dating from after the waiting 
period for those investigations and treatments that were directly related to a 
differential diagnosis of the FIP that was subsequently confirmed after 
elimination of other differentials, for instance the quite reasonable suspicion of 
a liver shunt or glycogen storage disease.
I feel this will be a very significant decision for Agria as it will set a precedent 
for separating enteric corona virus as an entity from the related but 
unpredictable development of FIP
So effectively Agrias vet does agree the discovery that a cat has coronavirus 
antibodies does not mean it will go on to develop FIP. It is also very clear here that Mrs Ps cat did have cryptosporidium and giardia and 
was treated for both and did not have either on the second stool sample of 17 
December 2021. Agrias vet as detailed above appears to have ignored this and 
indeed the symptoms which both produce in a cat as young as Mrs Ps cat was at the 
time. I dont consider that was helpful. 
By 24 November 2021 the vet history notes that the last 24 to 48 hours the cat was 
producing stools at 95% normal. 
By 6 December 2021 the vet history notes the cat is passing formed stools but is off 
food since they started treatment for cryptosporidium so that should be stopped, the 
symptoms were more suggestive of giardia. 
By 9 December 2021, Mrs Ps cat is definitely better off the treatment for 
cryptosporidium. And by 16 December Mrs P reported her cats stools have got softer 
over the last week and were watery last night. However, by 24 December 2021 it was 
noted there had been improvement but not 100%. 
By 28 December 2021 there were solid faeces and the cat was much brighter. 
However, he was slowing losing weight again. At this time the vet checked for FIP 
ascites (fluid build-up) but none were present. I consider this to be significant 
notwithstanding Mrs Ps cat developed dry FIP as it appears at this time Mrs Ps cat 
wasnt exhibiting any symptoms of FIP. Nonetheless a new antibiotic was prescribed. 
The next day Mrs P called the vet as she was concerned her cat was now turning 
away from food and sleeping all day. She said this was a similar reaction to the 
medication used to treat cryptosporidium, previously. 
All medications were stopped and by 31 December 2021 Mrs Ps cat was eating little 
and often. By 3 January 2022 Mrs Ps cat had gone downhill again. Investigations for 
a liver shunt or glycogen storage disease started. And nothing was found, as the CT 
scan was inconclusive.  Mrs Ps cat was kept in her local vets for this time. 
On 8 January 2022 Mrs Ps cat deteriorated suddenly, exhibited neurological 
symptoms and dry FIP was suspected and the cat was referred to the university vet 
hospital who did confirm FIP and treatment with Remdesivir commenced. 
This evidence from the vet history clearly shows an improvement with Mrs Ps cat, 
following the end of the 10 days waiting period, which suggests he wasnt developing 
FIP from the symptoms he was suffering within the 10-day waiting period. In the 
absence of any vet evidence to the contrary, the vet history shows an improving cat. 
Mrs P notes that the medication used to treat cryptosporidium plus the new antibiotic 
prescribed on 28 December did have adverse effects on her cat, which complicates 
the matter. But on balance, I consider the vet history does show an improving cat 
given the treatment for giardia and neither it nor cryptosporidium were present on the 
December 2021 stool sample. 
 
The fact of this improvement doesnt show me that Agria has shown clear enough 
evidence that the illness (as per the policy definition) that this cat suffered from in the 
first 10 days of the policy was the beginning of FIP rather than the more usual 
symptoms of giardia which commonly includes diarrhoea, gas, abdominal discomfort, 
nausea and vomiting, all of which this cat presented with before 22 November 2022 
as in within the 10-day waiting period.  
Mrs P has gone to some considerable effort to pull together much of the evidence 
and research available surrounding FIP and indeed how the very small minority of cats with coronavirus antibodies then go on to develop FIP. Im very grateful for her 
extensive efforts in this.  
Agrias specialist vet agrees that cats such as Mrs Ps young cat with coronavirus 
antibodies do not all go on to develop either effusive (wet) or non-effusive (dry) FIP. 
According to Mrs P the research (and I have not identified the researchers here given 
our final decisions are published, but the same can be made available to Agria on 
request) shows the following:
The virulence of different Feline Coronavirus (FCoV) strains when infecting 
monocytes did not affect viral replication; rather the monocytes themselves 
were responsible for controlling viral replication.
Mrs P says that means the monocytes within the individual cat were responsible for 
FIP replication rather than the existence of FCoV.  She says that further research 
shows that: 
Immune responses within individual cats play an important role; effusive FIP 
results from rapid widespread vasculitis as the cats fail to mount T cell 
immunity despite a vigour B cell response. However, cats with non-effusive 
FIP (Mrs Ps cat) have a cellular response that is partially effective, managing 
to contain the FIP to a relatively small number of macrophages in a few focal 
sites within specific target organs.
So, this shows me that its down the individual cats T cell response to FCoV as to 
how they cope, which Mrs P then says this means that any positive test for these 
coronavirus antibodies is not indicative to any FIP diagnosis, prognosis, or 
subsequent development. So the fact that her cat had these antibodies didnt mean 
anything as regards any likelihood of developing FIP later, as no test exists to have 
tested her cat at the time the stool sample in November 2021 was taken to have 
discovered what type of T cell response her cat could or would have mounted to the 
infection. I consider this very persuasive. Indeed, Agrias vet said, at worst for most 
cats its a transient mild illness. Milder it seems to me too, than what symptoms, 
giardia might produce which this cat was clearly suffering from given the November 
2021 stool sample result and the details of his presentation to the vet in November 
2021. 
Therefore although its not quite the same, this could be classed as a similar position 
with certain breeds of dogs that are pre-disposed to develop certain conditions 
because of the way they are bred,  Our stance there is that we would usually say the 
fact that the animal is pre-disposed doesnt mean it has the condition. Likewise, here 
just because Mrs Ps young cat had these coronavirus antibodies doesnt mean, and 
according to Agrias vet too, that it has the condition, namely FIP. 
I consider the very important fact that this cat tested positive for both giardia (and 
less so cryptosporidium) and reacted positively to the treatment so much so that in 
the December 2021 stool sample it had neither in his system to be extremely 
significant and classed legally as important intervening factor in this case. I also 
consider the vet history is important as, it clearly shows an improvement. So, I 
consider this breaks the chain of causation sufficiently in my view that the symptoms 
this cat exhibited in the 10-day waiting period were not sufficiently related to the 
existence of these coronavirus antibodies so as to be excluded under the policys 
wording. 
Therefore, I consider Mrs P claims in relation to the diagnosis and treatment of FIP 
should be paid. If Mrs P has paid any of these costs Agria should refund her with interest. I consider Agria does not have to pay the claims in relation to the diagnosis 
and treatment of giardia and cryptosporidium as they clearly arose in the 10-day 
waiting period, which I also assume werent covered by Mrs P initial four week free 
cover from another insurer. 
I consider Mrs P was put to extensive and significant distress, trouble and upset here 
which caused her to have to undertake considerable and detailed research, which 
also was exceptionally helpful to me too. So, I consider that Agria should pay Mrs P 
the sum of £350 compensation for this.
Mrs P said on the basis of my provisional decision she didnt think there was any need to 
make any further points. 
Agria did agree the costs for giardia and cryptosporidium should not be paid. But it disagreed 
with my outcome on the FIP costs because it said as a cat cant develop FIP without 
coronavirus antibodies, and this cat did have the presence of coronavirus antibodies during 
the first 10 days of the policy starting then in view of its policy limitations for these first 10 
days, it meant Mrs P claim shouldnt be paid. It referred to several sites which explained that 
FIP only develops in cats who have been exposed to these coronavirus antibodies. And it 
said the following:
The Illness in the first 10 days definition contains the following An illness that is 
caused by, relates to, or results from, an illness or clinical sign your cat had in the 
first 10 days after your policy started.
And said I didnt consider this in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of my view that the outcome detailed in my provisional 
decision is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mrs Ps complaint.
The further referral to various internet cat care sites that Agria referred me to in its response 
to my provisional decision does not take this matter any further. Agrias own expert vet and 
indeed even Mrs P accept that FIP cant develop without the presence of FCoV. And I agree 
with that too. The issue Agria has to show here is that the signs of FIP (not signs of FCoV), 
needed to have been present during the 10-day waiting period. This is because clinical sign 
is defined as:
Changes to your cats normal healthy state, its physical appearance, its bodily 
functions or behaviour.
I consider the word changes is key here.
The research shows that that the mere existence of FCoV does not equate to suffering from 
FIP, neither does it mean its always going to develop in any cat either and neither would it 
normally be much of a cause for a claim given if indeed the cat produces any symptoms 
according to Agrias own expert vet, they would be mild and transient in nature. So for the 
exclusion to apply, the illness (as in changes to the cats normal healthy state) I consider FIP 
must be evident during the first 10 days, not the existence of FCoV and I consider Agria is 
mistaken in its view.As I explained in the provisional decision (which by and large solely focused on the term 
highlighted by Agria in its response to me), I found Agrias own expert vet most persuasive 
on the issue facing Agria in this case namely, the following:
However, it does seem incongruous to deny claims where the initial corona 
virus was identified and to allow those where it was not, when we know in 
retrospect it must have been present. [My emphasis]
 And as I said in my provisional decision, although its not quite the same, this could be 
classed as a similar position with certain breeds of dogs that are pre-disposed to develop 
certain conditions because of the way they are bred,  Our stance there is that we would 
usually say the fact that the animal is pre-disposed doesnt mean it has the condition. 
Likewise, here just because Mrs Ps young cat had these coronavirus antibodies doesnt 
mean, and according to Agrias vet too, that it has the condition, namely FIP. 
So, I remain of the view that the intervening factor of giardia and cryptosporidium to be of 
great significance here and its a pity for both parties, that Agrias expert vet ignored it. Given 
the vet history clearly shows an improving cat following the treatment for giardia, it cant be 
at all certain that Mrs Ps cat was developing FIP during the 10-day waiting period, given the 
seriousness of that disease process. And the seriousness of the disease process is 
extremely important.  Further the vet evidence shows an improving cat from at least giardia 
symptoms, not one sliding down into FIP symptoms.
 
So, I consider this breaks the chain of causation sufficiently in my view that the actual 
symptoms this cat exhibited in the 10-day waiting period were not sufficiently related to the 
existence of FCoV so as to be excluded under the policys wording. Rather the cats 
symptoms were most likely from the actual existence of giardia and cryptosporidium of which 
giardia raises much more severe symptoms that the usual (if any) FCoV symptoms which 
Agrias expert vet detailed most helpfully. 
 
Therefore, as Agrias vet detailed above, I consider its not fair and reasonable to pay claims 
where the FCoV wasnt identified in the first 10-day period and then to deny claims where it 
was so identified. More so here when theres no dispute Mrs Ps cat was positive for giardia 
and cryptosporidium in November and not in December after successful treatment.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Agria Pet Insurance Ltd to do the following:
Pay Mrs Ps claims in relation to the diagnosis and treatment of FIP. 
If Mrs P has paid any of these costs interest of 8% simple per year should be added 
from the date Mrs P paid those costs to the date of its refund. If income tax is to be 
deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Mrs P 
for HMRC purposes. 
Pay Mrs P the sum of £350 compensation for the distress, trouble and upset it 
caused her. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman