DRN-3325927
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that Target Servicing Limited is holding her responsible for a loan taken 
out jointly with her former husband. To settle the complaint Ms W wants Target to abide by a 
court order to remove her from the loan agreement.
What happened
In September 2007 a secured loan was taken out with a lender Ill call W. It was secured on 
a property in the sole name of Ms Ws then husband, Mr H, but the credit agreement was in 
their joint names. The loan is now administered by Target on behalf of a lender Ill call C, 
which took over the loan in 2018.
In 2015 Ms W and Mr H were divorced. A consent order was agreed in which Mr H gave an 
undertaking to the court that he would be responsible for all payments on the loan, and 
would indemnify Ms W for all liabilities under the loan until it is discharged. The loan 
remained in joint names.
In May 2021 Ms W discovered the loan was showing on her credit report. Ms W contacted 
the credit reference agencies and Target. In its final response letter Target explained that the 
loan was in joint names and so remained a joint liability.
Ms W was very unhappy about this and contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked at the complaint, including the consent order provided by Ms W. Having 
done so, he thought Ms W should be removed from the loan and her credit file amended. 
The investigator thought the court order superseded the credit agreement and so Ms W 
should no longer be held liable for the loan.
Target disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Target said that the lender 
wasnt a party to the proceedings and there was no mention of Ms W being removed from 
the loan. Having taken its own legal advice, Target wasnt able to agree to remove Ms W 
from the loan agreement.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on it.
Provisional decision
On 8 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I reached the following 
conclusions.
First, I note that Ms W had been advised to take legal advice but declined to do so. I 
can see from the consent order that, in the recital to the order (that is, the part at the 
beginning), Mr H gave an undertaking (a binding promise) to the court that he would 
be responsible for the loan, and that hed indemnify Ms W. 
A recital to an order essentially contains anything relevant to the order that cannot 
be, or is not, actually expressed as an order. It is important to understand here that 
the court can only actually make an order if it has power to do so. Therefore anything 
relevant that the court does not have power to order must be included as a recital to 
the order. This is true even if the parties have agreed to do something  in this case, 
Mr H agreeing to make the loan repayments.
The court had no power to order Ms W to be removed from the loan agreement, 
because W wasnt a party to the proceedings. Because W couldnt be bound by any 
order made by the court, it wasnt possible to make an order that Ms W be removed 
from the agreement. 
Instead, by giving an undertaking, Mr H is saying that he will be liable for the loan 
and will indemnify Ms W for any failure to comply with this promise. The practical 
effect of this is that if Mr H doesnt make the payments, Ms W is still liable to make 
them, but can apply to the court for a declaration that Mr H is in contempt of court. I 
see that on page 6 of the consent order there is a section for Mr H to sign confirming 
his understanding of the undertaking and that if he breaks any of his promises to the 
court, he may be sent to prison for contempt of court. 
Recitals to consent orders in matrimonial cases sometimes contain an additional 
undertaking to the court that one party will use their best endeavours to arrange for 
the release of the other party from the loan agreement. What this means is that the 
party who is keeping the loan promises to make an application to the lender for the 
loan to be transferred into their sole name. There is, of course, no guarantee a lender 
will agree to it.
But that was not part of the agreement reached between Ms W and Mr H in 2015, 
and so the loan remained in joint names, with joint and several liability for the 
repayments, subject to the undertaking given by Mr H.
The unhappy consequence of this for Ms W is that she is still equally (jointly and 
severally) liable for the loan. This means that Target is entitled to report the loan on 
Ms Ws credit file and, in the event of default, hold her liable for repayment.
I appreciate this must seem desperately unfair to Ms W because she thought that, 
after 2015, this was no longer her responsibility. I am very sorry to have to give her 
such bad news. It would be up to Mr H to apply for the loan to be transferred into his 
sole name. I do not have the power to order Target to take Ms W off the loan 
agreement.
Responses to the provisional decision
Target agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Ms W responded 
to say that she was disappointed because she thought a court ruling would supercede 
anything else and that shed be removed from the loan. She has contacted the court and 
Mr H about this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file in its totality and revisited my provisional decision.Having done so, I can see no basis on which to change the findings I reached in my 
provisional decision. As I explained, the recital to the court order in which Mr H undertook 
the loan repayments isnt a ruling on what has to be done  its simply a record of a promise 
Mr H has made to the court.
Overall, after reviewing the case, Im satisfied Target isnt under any obligation to remove 
Ms W from the loan agreement, for the same reasons given in my provisional decision, and 
set out above. I sincerely hope Ms W is able to resolve this matter directly with Mr H, but 
theres no basis on which I can find Target has done anything wrong in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman