DRN-3271309
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded payments he made from his account to 
an investment scam.
What happened
Mr G found an advert on social media for company W which related to investing in 
cryptocurrency. Mr G clicked the link and provided his details and someone from W then 
called him about investing. He made an initial payment in mid May 2019 to W via debit card 
for €1,000. He then made four larger payments from late May 2019 to September 2019, 
starting with a €5,000 payment by debit card, shown on Mr Gs statements on 28 May 2019. 
Mr G later discovered W was a scam and hed lost all these funds. He contacted Lloyds for 
help in getting his money back in November 2019 and also raised a complaint at this time.
Lloyds responded to Mr G in December 2019 and didnt uphold his complaint. It said it was 
unable to recover any of the funds Mr G had sent to the scammer. 
Mr G brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint in 
December 2021. He thought that the second payment Mr G made to W shouldve triggered 
Lloyds to call Mr G and ask him about this payment. And if it had, he likely wouldve gone 
away and done some research into W and from this uncovered it wasnt a genuine 
investment firm. He said Lloyds should refund Mr G what he paid W from the second 
payment onwards and pay 8% simple interest on this.
Mr G accepted the investigators assessment. Lloyds didnt respond to the assessment, so 
the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the spending on Mr Gs account before he made the fraudulent payments, to 
understand what usual spending looked like for him. I accept that he makes international 
payments on a regular basis, but I can see that these are low amounts and seemingly made 
by him in person when he is abroad, rather than him sending the money using his debit card 
online. And while I can see hes made several payments of around £2,500 in the months 
prior to the disputed transactions, these are done as faster payments and to a longstanding 
payee. Mr G hasnt made international payments of anywhere near €5,000 by debit card.
Considering the above, Im in agreement with the investigator that the second payment Mr G 
made to the scammer shouldve triggered on Lloyds systems. And due to this, it shouldve 
paused the payment until it had spoken to Mr G and asked some more questions to be 
satisfied this was a genuine payment and he wasnt the victim of a scam.
I understand Lloyds has argued Mr G had a responsibility to do research into W before he 
made payments to it. And as he didnt do this, he should now have full responsibility for his 
loss. But Lloyds isnt able to remove the responsibility it has as a bank by pointing out what it 
considers Mr G should or shouldnt have done. Im not asking Lloyds to refund the first 
payment, as I dont consider this shouldve alerted it  and so Mr G will bear this loss 
himself. But I cant agree it shouldve allowed the second payment to go through without 
speaking to Mr G. Im satisfied the second payment he made was unusual, as this was a 
large international debit card payment  something Mr G hadnt made before. And so Lloyds 
shouldnt have allowed this payment to automatically process.
If Lloyds had contacted Mr G, Im satisfied he wouldve looked further into W before agreeing 
for the payment to continue. Hes been honest about the steps he took before paying W and 
I dont think he did have all the information he ought to have. But this is why I think he 
wouldve then done checks into W if Lloyds asked him questions around their interactions. 
And I consider it shouldve provided him with a general scam warning, as it had information 
on these types of investment scams and how fraudsters often operate  so it couldve 
explained this considering the kind of payment Mr G was making.
If Lloyds had done the above, I consider it most likely Mr G wouldve realised W wasnt what 
he expected, and he needed to go away and do more research before sending a large sum. 
And then he wouldnt have interacted with it further, as hed have established he was the 
victim of an investment scam. 
Due to this, I consider Lloyds should be refunding Mr G all the payments he made to this 
scam from 28 May 2019 onwards. If it had called him before processing this second 
payment, Im confident he wouldnt have agreed for this to be sent or then sent any further 
funds to W.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC needs to:
Refund Mr G the payments he made to W from (and including) 28 May 2019
Refund any non-sterling transaction and purchase fees for these transactions
As this was a current account, Lloyds should add interest to that sum (less any tax properly 
deductible) at 8% simple interest per year from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
refund.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Lloyds Bank PLC should arrange to pay the redress set out above, on receipt of Mr Gs 
acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman