DRN-1983823
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) were wrong to register a default on her account and report that to the credit 
reference agencies.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with then investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B agreed a one-year payment arrangement with BPF in October 2018 to pay £30 per 
month. She didnt miss any payments towards this plan and, whilst a formal agreement may 
not have been implemented, its clear a further temporary arrangement was put in place in 
May 2019 to continue to pay £30 per month for the next year.
The Information Commissioners Office principles for the reporting of arrears, arrangements 
and defaults at Credit Reference Agencies says: lenders should not file a default where 
there is a genuine and agreed variation in the payment schedule. (The only exception to this 
is where a debt management programme is put in place where the level of repayment 
represents only a token sum which is only accepted by the lender because the customer 
cannot afford to pay more). 
I dont think this was a token sum as it was a little under a third of the monthly repayment 
that would ordinarily have been due. So, I dont think BPF were right to register a default on 
the basis that Mrs B hadnt been meeting her contractual payments. 
And, even if Im wrong about that, I dont think it would be fair to register a default at that 
point as it was clear Mrs B was making significant efforts to comply within the means she 
had at the time and that she was meeting those new payment obligations. I think she could 
have expected the business to be more sympathetic towards her financial distress.
Putting things right
BPF should therefore remove the default applied in June 2019 and update Mrs Bs credit file 
to show she was paying in arrears through a temporary payment arrangement; in place from 
October 2018 until the loan was sold in December 2019. 
They should advise the new holder of the debt about the revised status and request that they 
remove any reference to the default they may have reported, unless there has been a 
subsequent lapse in payments towards any plan that has been put in place, that is not 
covered by this decision, and that merits the account being defaulted.
It is, of course, understood that the new owner of the debt is not associated with BPF and 
that BPF therefore have limited ability to ensure the new owners comply with their request. 
But, given that the default should never have been registered, I think it would be fair for BPF 
to endeavour to resolve the issue directly to avoid any inconvenience for Mrs B.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited to:
remove the default applied in June 2019 and update Mrs Bs credit file to show she 
was paying in arrears through a temporary payment arrangement; in place from 
October 2018 until the loan was sold in December 2019.
advise the new holder of the debt about the revised status and request that they 
remove any reference to the default they may have reported.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman