DRN-2672916
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) has paid a 
proportionate settlement on her claim under a decreasing term assurance policy. 
Mrs Cs solicitor has brought this complaint on her behalf. For ease, Ill refer to both their 
actions as that of Mrs C. 
What happened
Mrs C applied for a joint life decreasing term assurance policy with her husband  Mr C  in 
June 2014 for a sum assured of £346,488. 
Within this application they were asked:
Have you ever been advised to reduce or stop drinking alcohol for medical or health 
reasons?
Mr C answered No to this question and all the other medical questions LV asked. 
Sadly, Mr C died in April 2019. So, Mrs C called to make a claim on her policy. After 
reviewing the medical information provided by Mr Cs doctors, LV decided to accept the 
claim but only pay a proportionate settlement (£216,191). This was because it thought the 
late Mr C hadnt answered the above question correctly. And if he had, it wouldve applied a 
higher premium to the policy. 
Mrs C was unhappy with this decision, so she made a complaint. LV reviewed the complaint 
but didnt change its decision. So, Mrs C brought her complaint to this service. She said LV 
had acted unethically by referring to medical information it wasnt entitled to which was 
provided by Mr Cs GP. She referred to joint guidelines from the British Medical Association 
(BMA) and the Association of British Insurers (ABI) which prohibited doctors from sending a 
printout of full medical records and in the event they did, ABI members such as LV should 
not accept them. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but decided not to uphold it. He said LV was 
permitted to pay a proportionate settlement under the relevant law on misrepresentation. He 
said LV had fairly decided that Mr C had made a misrepresentation when taking out the 
policy, and the underwriting guidance showed that if this information had been supplied to 
LV, it wouldve applied a higher premium to the policy. 
The investigator added that he didnt think LV had requested the full medical records and 
that this was instead provided by Mr Cs GP. And although this information shouldnt have 
been provided to LV, it was entitled to take this into consideration under the relevant law on 
misrepresentation.  
Mrs C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said LVs reliance on 
information they werent entitled to from medical records they shouldnt have seen isnt 
ethical. She added that LV has breached the joint BMA and ABI guidelines, so the complaint 
should be upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to pass on my condolences to Mrs C. I was very sorry to read about Mr Cs 
death. 
After carefully weighing up all the evidence presented by both sides, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. I know this will be very disappointing news for Mrs C. I want to assure her 
that I didnt take this decision lightly. While I dont want to add to her distress, I cant say LV 
has acted unfairly by applying the proportionate settlement to her claim even though LV was 
provided with information it didnt request from Mr Cs GP.  
Ive looked at and considered all the evidence Mrs C and LV have provided  and Id like to 
assure her that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, 
but to focus instead on whats important to the outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer. 
So, the issues for me to consider are whether the late Mr C made a misrepresentation when 
taking out this policy, and if so, whether LV has shown it wouldnt have offered the policy at 
all or wouldve done on different terms.
Was there a misrepresentation?
I believe the question LV asked Mr C in the application was clear, and the importance of 
answering it truthfully and accurately was highlighted. It said, if he didnt, it could mean a 
claim might not be paid and Mr C should review the answers he had given. So, I think LV 
brought to Mr Cs attention the need to answer the questions fully and accurately. 
According to the medical information supplied to LV, the GP discussed Mr Cs alcohol intake 
(120 units per week) and he was told to reduce it in June 2007. The records show Mr C did 
reduce his intake with the GP noting his intake was 25 units per week in 2008 and then 3-6 
units per week in 2014. Mrs C has said the appointment in 2007 with the GP wasnt about 
alcohol and alcohol wasnt related to Mr Cs cause of death so this information isnt relevant. 
Ive considered the evidence carefully. Having done so, Im satisfied Mr C shouldve 
reasonably answered the question about his alcohol intake differently. CIDRA requires me to 
consider whether a reasonable person wouldve made LV aware of Mr Cs alcohol history 
when applying for the policy. I dont believe  on balance - a reasonable person wouldve 
forgotten the advice from his GP. Ive been persuaded by the notes which show Mr Cs 
alcohol intake was high, and records that he actively reduced his intake in the following years in the build up to the application. Because Im satisfied Mr C shouldve answered the 
question differently, LV has said this wouldve made a difference to the premium it charged 
for this policy.
 
What would LV have done differently?
LV has acted in line with a categorisation of a careless misrepresentation. Im not satisfied 
Mr C deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his medical history here. So, I believe its 
appropriate to categorise his actions as careless. And under CIDRA, when its found a 
consumer has made a careless misrepresentation, LV can take whatever action it wouldve 
taken if the correct answers had been given at the point of application.
LV said it wouldve applied a higher premium for this policy if it had been made aware of the 
Mr Cs medical history. Based upon the evidence LV has provided from its underwriting 
manual and underwriter, Im satisfied it wouldve applied a higher premium here. And CIDRA 
allows LV to calculate how much of a deduction from the original sum assured it can make 
based upon the higher premium it wouldve applied. 
Ive reviewed the proportionate settlement LV has applied. Having done so, I agree this has 
been applied fairly here. It has taken into account that a higher premium wouldve been paid 
in line with its underwriting guidance. And this underwriting guidance must be applied to all 
customers fairly and consistently. 
As Mrs C paid £78.74 but shouldve paid £114.69, this works out as roughly 68.6% of the 
premium she ought to have paid. So, under CIDRA, LV are only required to settle up to 
68.6% of Mrs Cs claim. So, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for LV to limit its settlement 
to paying this proportion of Mrs Cs claim.  
LV being provided with Mr Cs full medical records
Mrs C has complained that LV has based its decision to pay a proportionate settlement on 
information it wasnt entitled to because alcohol wasnt related to the condition Mr C died 
from. And it shouldnt have read this information under the joint BMA and ABI guidelines. 
Ive reviewed LVs medical request to Mr Cs GP, and Im satisfied it was reasonable and 
that it didnt fish for information unrelated to the claim. So, Ive also considered the joint 
BMA and ABI guidelines Mrs C has referred to, in order to decide whether LV was entitled to 
read the full medical records. Having done so, Im satisfied it was. 
LV is guided by the joint guidelines from the ABI and BMA, which mentions its good practice 
not to read medical information it shouldnt have been provided with. But LV also must follow 
the relevant law in these circumstances. CIDRA allows LV to go back and review an 
application based upon medical information it shouldve been provided with. And it allows LV 
to take certain actions based upon this information. Which is what it has done here. 
I note the extracts from the guides Mrs C has referred to are in relation to when an 
application is applied for and when medical information is supplied to support it. The extracts 
provided by Mrs C also say full records arent necessary because these wont be relevant to 
the insurer. Whereas, LV is using CIDRA to essentially go back in time and decide whether it 
wouldve entered into the contract if Mr C had disclosed his medical history. And I think 
alcohol consumption is relevant to an insurer when considering whether to enter into an 
insurance contract, and how much premium should be charged based upon that 
consumption or other medical information. I appreciate my decision leaves Mrs C in a more difficult position as she expected to receive 
the full insurance settlement to help in these sad circumstances. Im sorry to disappoint her, 
but overall, I dont think shes been treated unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman