DRN-2783040
The complaint
Mr V complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc have dealt with his claim
following an escape of water in his kitchen.  
What happened
Mr V has household buildings and contents insurance underwritten by RSA. On 14 May
2020 Mr V contacted RSA to make a claim for damage to his kitchen, following a water leak
from a waste pipe behind his washing machine.
Mr Vs kitchen is a bespoke painted kitchen, installed six or seven years ago, by a company
which has since gone out of business.
Mr V only became aware of the leak on 14 May 2020, when he heard running water in his
kitchen. He has home emergency insurance with another provider and when he discovered
the leak, he contacted them, and they sent out a plumber who replaced the faulty pipe. Mr V
has told us that when the washing machine was pulled out there was a lot of water on the
floor which had to be mopped up. And the water had run along the floor behind and under
the kitchen units. The plumber told the him pipe had probably been leaking for some time.
Theres no dispute that there was a leak, and RSA accept that the claim is covered under Mr
Vs policy. Whats not agreed is the extent of the damage caused by the leak, how the claim
should be dealt with and, if Mr V is to arrange the repairs himself, the amount of the cash
settlement he should receive.
RSA appointed assessors to inspect the damage to Mr Vs kitchen. Their report is dated 20
May 2020. The leaking pipe had been replaced before the inspection. The report records
that a painted base unit and end panel, including the door had warped. It notes that Mr V has
matching items cover on his policy, but due to the limited amount of damage, recommends
that a repair to the damaged unit be attempted first. And if this isnt possible a quote be
obtained for the necessary remedial work.  
Some damage to tiles close to the damaged unit was noted, although the report says that Mr
V wasnt sure if this was due to the leak. And its stated that once the units are removed, the
tiles underneath will need to be checked to see if theyve been damaged. Mr V is noted to
have been concerned that the damaged unit couldnt be repaired to match the rest of the
kitchen. The report contains photographs of the kitchen, including the damaged unit and end
panel. The tiles near to the damaged unit, appear to be loose.
Following receipt of this report RSA made a number of offers to Mr V to settle his claim. The
first offer was £1,000, to replace the damaged unit and repaint the kitchen. This was then
increased to £5,000, as RSA agreed that painting the kitchen might be a more specialist job.
Mr V wasnt happy with either of these offers and wanted RSAs contractors to replace his
kitchen, which had been quoted for in the assessors report.
A second inspection was carried out on 26 June 2020, when moisture readings were taken
in Mr Vs kitchen. These were considered normal, so it wasnt thought any drying was
required of areas that could be inspected. But it was again noted that there might be water
damage behind the kitchen units, and this would need to be checked when the units were
removed. The tiled floor is stated to be cracked and blown, and Mr V said it hadnt been like
this before. Its also noted that theres a risk of the granite worktop, around the sink, cracking
when its removed.
RSA obtained a further report in early July 2020 which contains a quotation for the
replacement of Mr Vs kitchen. But following receipt of this report RSA were advised that one
of their contractors could repair the damaged unit and end panel, and replace the carcass of
the unit for £1,190 + VAT. So Mr V was advised that this was the limit of RSAs liability, and
they werent prepared to cover the cost of replacing the damaged tiles, as they said these
were too far from the source of the leak, to have been damaged by it.
Mr V wasnt happy with this offer and complained to RSA. He said theyd made earlier offers,
including replacing his kitchen, which hed accepted, but now he was being offered far less,
and they werent prepared to cover the damaged tiles, which their own reports said were
caused by the water leak.
RSA upheld part of Mr Vs complaint, as they accepted that the earlier offers theyd made
had been confusing, and offered Mr V £100 compensation for this. But they didnt uphold the
rest of his complaint. They said they were satisfied that the limit of their liability was the cost
of replacing the damaged unit, carcass and end panel, and that the damage to the tiles
wasnt related to the leak.
Mr V wasnt happy with this and complained to our service. Our investigator considered the
case and said that RSA had made their initial offers based on information available to them
at the time. But they were later told that the damaged unit, carcass and end panel could be
replaced for £1,190 + VAT. Our investigator felt this was a fair resolution of Mr Vs claim, and
that £100 was reasonable compensation for the confusion caused by the earlier offers.
Our investigator said that the terms and conditions of Mr Vs policy provided for repairs to be
carried out to damaged items, and he felt it was fair for the damaged unit to be repaired,
despite Mr Vs matching items cover. And he thought that based on the location of the
damaged tiles and the technical evidence RSA had sought about this, it was reasonable for
them to decline this part of Mr Vs claim.
Mr V didnt accept our investigators opinion and the case came to me for a decision.
Before I drafted my decision, we asked Mr V to provide some further information about the 
extent of the water leak. Hes told us that when the washing machine was pulled out the 
entire area was soaking wet. While the water was mainly under the units, along the back 
wall, some had run under the units and was seeping out from beneath them towards the 
door, where the tiles were later found to be damaged. And hes said that is was one of 
RSAs assessors who told him the tiles by the door had been damaged, as water had
got under them and they were starting to break up. So the cost of replacing the tiles was
added to the work schedule he prepared.
Mr V also told us that, the contractor RSA instructed to inspect the damaged unit, told
him he could only replace the front of the unit and this would be a short-term fix. Mr V has
made good the floor area around the door mat, but he hasnt taken any steps to repair or
replace the damaged cabinet, and he doesnt know if this can be matched to the rest of his
kitchen. And given how RSA have dealt with his claim, he has little confidence in contractors
instructed by them carrying out repairs to his kitchen to an acceptable standard.
We also asked RSA to provide copies of the call recordings of their conversations with Mr V
about his claim. Theyve only been able to provide one call, which isnt particularly helpful, asMr V had simply called for an update on his claim after one of the inspections. And as RSA
hadnt yet received the report, they said theyd call him when it was received. I understand
why RSA havent been able to provide the other calls, as theyve told us staff have been
working from home due to the pandemic.
And we also asked RSA to provide some further information about their approach to Mr Vs 
claim and the settlement offer theyd made.
We asked them what steps they were proposing to take to check if there was damage under
the kitchen units, as the reports theyd obtained suggested there might be, and why their
settlement offer was limited to repairs to the end unit, panel and carcass. Theyve said that if
further damage is found theyll deal with it accordingly on discovery. Theyve also said that
Mr V didnt want his washing machine removed, so they werent able to check for any
damage behind the kitchen units.
We also asked them why theyd declined to cover the damaged tiles, saying theyre too far
from the leak, when the photographs show theyre very close to the damaged unit. Theyve
said that the leak was at the other end of the run of cupboards, and there are two cupboards
and a washing machine between the source of the leak and the damaged tiles. And we
asked them to provide details of the technical advice they said their approach was based on.
This appears to have been provided by another RSA employee, and is simply that the
damaged tiles are too far from the source of the leak. And if they were damaged by the leak,
theyd have expected more damage to the kitchen units, plaster and skirting boards.
Finally, we asked them why their offer was limited to replacing one unit, when Mr Vs kitchen 
is bespoke and all painted, when they dont appear to have any confirmation that the finish 
on the repair can be matched to the rest of the kitchen. Theyve said that their offer is limited 
to the repair until they know otherwise.
I issued my provisional decision on 8 April 2021. In it I said: -
I can understand why Mr V is upset and frustrated by the approach RSA have taken to his
claim. RSA have accepted that their initial offers were confusing and offered him £100
compensation for this. But I cant see that hes ever been told that theyll consider covering
any further damage thats found when the damaged cabinet is being repaired. And they 
havent taken into account that Mr Vs kitchen is painted, and any repairs may not match the
rest of the kitchen.
RSA have said that their assessors werent able to check for any damage behind the
cabinets near to the source of the leak, as Mr V wouldnt allow any of them to remove his
washing machine. Mr V has told us, and I accept, that none of the assessors ever asked him
to move, or attempted to move his washing machine. Hed moved it when the leak first
happened to clear up the waste water, which had collected and run along the back wall
behind his kitchen units, so I think hed have moved it again if asked to.
So I dont think RSA have done enough to establish whether there is any further leak related
damage that isnt currently visible.
I also accept what Mr V has told us about how the tiles by his door were damaged. That
water from the leak ran along the wall behind the cabinets and settled in the recess under
the door mat. While its noted in one of the reports RSA obtained, that Mr V wasnt sure if the
damage was caused by the leak, I think the explanation hes given is reasonable. The water
ran across the kitchen, found a recessed area to settle in, undermined the cement the tiles
were fixed with and over time they loosened.Im not persuaded that the offer RSA have made Mr V is the limit of their liability. I havent
seen anything that shows me that if Mr V replaces the damaged cabinet, the repair will
match the rest of his kitchen. Given the time that has passed since the leak happened, and
how RSA have dealt with his claim to date, I dont think it would be fair to Mr V if I said RSA
should reinspect his kitchen and prepare a further estimate for the cost of the repairs, taking
into account potential damage behind the kitchen units and repainting the kitchen if the
repaired cabinet doesnt match the rest of the kitchen.
RSA have already obtained estimates and I think the best way to resolve this matter is to
use those as the basis of the settlement of Mr Vs claim. I dont think theres enough
evidence to say that RSA should cover the cost of replacing Mr Vs kitchen, but I do think
theres enough evidence to say that it may be difficult to match the colour of the repaired
cabinet to the rest of the kitchen. I say this because of the time that has passed since the
kitchen was installed and because the company that installed it have since gone out of
business. So its likely to be difficult to find an exact paint match.
To resolve his claim, I think RSA should pay Mr V the £5,000 they initially offered for the
repair of the damaged cabinet and repainting his kitchen. Mr V has told us hes repaired the
damaged floor tiles. If he can provide evidence of how much this cost RSA should pay this is
addition to the £5,000.
RSA have provided Mr V with poor customer service throughout his claim. And I dont think
the £100 they offered him, in respect of the confusing settlement offers they made, is
enough. I think £500, inclusive of the £100 previously offered, is the appropriate level of
compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Vs complaint.
RSA have told us that they have nothing to add to my provisional decision.
Mr V has said hes generally happy with my provisional decision, but hes raised a number of 
points that hes asked me to consider. 
Hes concerned that when he complained to RSA, they told him that an expert had reviewed 
their decision, but in fact it was just someone else in their office. So, he believes they lied to 
him about obtaining an expert opinion on his claim.  
And he didnt say that he wasnt sure if his kitchen floor had been damaged by the leak. 
What hed said was that he hadnt realised that his kitchen floor was damaged, until this was 
pointed out by one of the assessors RSA sent. 
Mr V had told us hed repaired the damaged floor tiles, and I said if he provided details of the 
cost of these repairs, Id consider whether this cost should be added to the settlement Id 
suggested. Hes now told us that he completed the repair himself and it hasnt cost him 
anything. Hes questioned why the cost of repairing the floor hasnt been included in the 
settlement. But he says he doesnt want to pursue this if it will delay the resolution of his 
complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked RSA to provide a copy of the expert opinion they said they relied upon when 
reviewing Mr Vs complaint, as I wanted to ensure that Id seen all the relevant evidence before I drafted my decision. RSA confirmed that the case had been reviewed by one of their 
in-house experts.  
I can understand why Mr V assumed RSA had obtained a further expert report. But its quite 
usual for insurance companies to have in-house specialists in particular areas, who review 
cases if a further opinion is required. So I dont agree that RSA lied to Mr V, and I think 
theyd have confirmed his claim was reviewed in-house if this had been raised earlier.
From the evidence Ive seen I dont think it would be reasonable to say that RSA should 
cover the cost of replacing the whole of Mr Vs kitchen floor. While this cost was included in 
one of the schedules of work prepared for RSA, this was prepared on the basis that the 
whole kitchen was being replaced. And its not possible from this to say whether it would be 
possible to repair just the damaged floor tiles, rather than replacing them all. 
So if Mr V wanted me to consider the cost of replacing the kitchen floor, Id want to see 
evidence that the damaged tiles alone couldnt simply be replaced. Hes told us that hes 
been able to repair the damaged area and hasnt cost him anything. Hes also said that he 
wants the matter concluded now and doesnt want to have any further inspections or wait for 
any costs to be agreed. And taking this into account Im not going to say that RSA should 
contribute towards the cost of repairing the damaged floor tiles.
But I remain of the view that RSA should pay Mr V the £5,000 they initially offered for the
repair of the damaged cabinet and repainting his kitchen. 
And RSA have provided Mr V with poor customer service throughout his claim. I dont think 
the £100 they offered him, in respect of the confusing settlement offers they made, is
enough. I think £500, inclusive of the £100 previously offered, is the appropriate level of
compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Vs complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
To put things right I require them to do the following:
Pay Mr V £5,000 towards the repairs and repainting of his kitchen.
Pay Mr V £500, inclusive of the £100 previously offered, for the trouble and upset
hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman