DRN-1087811
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) caused him to become 
overdrawn - and then offered him an unaffordable payment plan to pay off the debt. 
What happened
On 11 May, Mr G made six card payments totalling £39,000 to a third party. When he 
checked his banking app, a number of the transactions were shown as pending. On 16 May, 
Mr G transferred the entire balance of his current account  then showing as just under 
£23,000  to a savings account. He then transferred this money to another persons account.
The following morning, Mr G called NatWest and questioned why his current account was 
overdrawn by £20,000. Two of the payments Mr G had made on 11 May had been debited, 
leaving the account overdrawn. He complained that NatWest should not have shown the 
money as available, and is unhappy with the banks proposals for him to repay the money. 
He wants to be able to repay over a longer period, or for the debt to be written off.
In their response, NatWest said as the third party hadnt claimed the funds until 16 May -  the 
available balance wouldnt have reflected the transactions when Mr G looked on his banking 
App. They didnt uphold his complaint - saying it was Mr Gs responsibility to make sure 
sufficient funds were available until the payments were claimed. 
Our investigator noted that NatWests website explained that debit card payments could take 
time to process, and that the customer needed to ensure sufficient funds were available until 
payments were claimed. He didnt think the bank had acted unfairly towards Mr G, and 
wasnt persuaded it needed to write off the overdrawn balance or offer different repayment 
terms.
As I understand it, NatWest has since withdrawn its proposal for Mr G to repay the debt over 
time and has informed Mr G that it no longer wishes to provide him with banking facilities. 
Mr G remains unhappy with the situation and has asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available information and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr G checked his current account balance on 16 May, he would undoubtedly have 
been aware of the amount hed spent with the third party. Theres no plausible explanation 
as to how Mr G, having viewed his balance multiple times between 11 and 16 May, could 
reasonably have expected to have £20,000 left after the card payments had come out. Im 
afraid I simply cant countenance the possibility that Mr G was simply confused about his 
balance.With this in mind, any transactions he made using that money were made in the knowledge 
that he was doing so with money hed already committed to spending elsewhere. The fact 
that the bank didnt block him from doing so doesnt excuse him from the consequences of 
his own actions.
Mr G has sought to complain about the terms on which NatWest initially proposed he could 
repay the debt. In my view, such terms were quite generous  the equivalent of an 18-month 
interest free loan. Its clear that, within a day of Mr G transferring the money into his account 
(and onward to another person), he was discussing the situation with the bank. I see no 
reason why he wasnt in a position to return the money immediately. 
I dont consider the fair way to resolve this matter would be for me to require NatWest to 
make a gift of this money to Mr G, or to provide him with an affordable payment plan. From 
what I can see, any change of position on Mr Gs part was made in the knowledge that he 
was not reasonably entitled to use that money. Further, any forbearance he might seek will 
need to take into account why he didnt either simply ask the person to whom hed 
transferred the money to return it straight away, or why he apparently hasnt done so during 
the last year. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman