DRN-3907706
The complaint
A company Ill call M complains that Santander UK PLC (Santander) debited £258,372.34 
from its account without prior warning.
M is represented by its director, Mr M.
What happened
In September 2021, Santander blocked Ms account while it carried out a review, having 
received notification of an indemnity from a third-party bank for £258,372.34. Santander told 
Mr M that it had received information that showed the £258,372.34 had been obtained 
fraudulently. It asked various questions of Mr M about the money and requested documents 
in support of his claim that he was entitled to the funds.
Mr M provided a number of invoices to Santander, but Santander wasnt satisfied with the 
information Mr M provided, so it returned the £258,372.34 to the third-party bank.
Mr M complained, but Santander didnt change its mind. It issued its final response to Ms 
complaint on 14 February 2022. It said Ms case had been referred to Santanders fraud 
team for review, and that it was happy it had acted in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked at his complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She was satisfied 
Santander has acted reasonably in assessing the indemnity claim and in returning the funds 
to the sending bank. Mr M didnt accept what our investigator said, so he asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that Im aware Ive summarised the events of this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties, and that Ive done so using my own words. The reason for this is that 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here, which our rules allow me to do. 
This approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. And Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in this case. So, if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, and I must stress that Ive considered everything 
Mr M and Santander have said, before reaching my decision.
My findings
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review.
And, having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied Santander was acting in line with its legal 
and regulatory obligations when it blocked Ms account. And that it was entitled to do so 
under the account terms and conditions that governed the relationship between Santander 
and M.
Mr M has said, though, that Santander abused its powers in returning the funds in Ms 
account to the sending bank. So, Ive looked at the steps Santander took when making its 
decision, and Ive looked at the evidence it relied on. Having done so, Im satisfied it acted 
reasonably in returning the £258,372.34, and that it was entitled to do so.
Santander explained to Mr M that it was investigating an allegation of fraud. It gave him the 
opportunity to submit evidence in support of his claim to the funds, and it reviewed the 
information and evidence provided by both Mr M and the third-party bank. Santander has 
shown our service the information it looked at as part of its review, its explained its rationale 
in weighing that information and its demonstrated how it reached its decision to comply with 
the indemnity.
Having reviewed everything Santander, and Mr M, has told our service, Im satisfied 
Santander acted reasonably in returning the funds to source, and that it was acting in 
accordance with its overriding legal and regulatory obligations when it did so. I appreciate Mr 
M wants to understand more about the reasons for Santanders decision. But Santander isnt 
obliged to explain the reasons for its decision to Mr M, and in the circumstances of this 
particular case, I see no good reason to compel it do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman