DRN-1728735
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service he received from the Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) in 
relation to an arrangement he had to use banking facilities at Lloyds Bank.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr F and BOI, so I wont repeat it in any great detail. If Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather, I dont think its relevant to the issues I 
need to deal with. However in summary it is this; 
BOI had an agreement with Lloyds to allow Mr F to use their banking facilities. This 
agreement was renewed annually but in 2019 an error was made by BOI in the renewal 
process.
Mr F says this led to him being unable to use his bank account for a period of about 1 month 
which caused him great stress and frustration. He complained to BOI but they didnt believe 
they had done anything wrong. They said Mr F could have used the Post Office facilities to 
do his banking and in any event the agreement did not automatically expire at the end of the 
agreed term, as there was a 6 week grace period.
Mr F was unhappy with BOIs final response and so brought his complaint to this service and 
our investigator looked into it but thought Mr F had not been prevented from using his 
account. As such, the investigator didnt think BOI had acted unfairly towards Mr F. Mr F 
didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to mediate individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award 
redress where it is appropriate. In cases where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, then I work on what is known as the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
I consider what is more likely to have happened in the light of the evidence which is 
available, and the wider circumstances of the case. 
The agreed facts are that Mr F had an arrangement to use Lloyds banking facilities at their 
branch. That was because there was an agreement between BOI and Lloyds, but that 
agreement did need to be renewed annually. The agreement had an expiry date of the 30 
June 2019. The request to renew was sent by BOI on the 9 July 2019 but it contained an 
error, in that the expiry date for the agreement was written as 30 June 2019 when it should 
have said 2020. 
Mr F has told this service that the first date he was unable to use his bank account was the 
30 June 2019. But, despite being reassured by BOI, when Mr F visited Lloyds between the 
30 June and the 2 August he was told he was unable to do any banking. This he says meant he had no means of withdrawing cash from my business account, or making cheque 
lodgments. The evidence from Mr Fs bank statement shows a different picture for that 
period. There was a cheque for cash of £300 on the 1 July, a giro credit lodgement on the 9 
July for £533.60, a cheque for £700 and a cheque for £1,580 on the 23 July, and a cheque 
made payable to cash to Mr F for £300 on the 30 July. This is evidence that Mr F was able to 
make cheque lodgements and withdraw cash during July.
BOI said that in any event the agreement would not automatically expire on the 30 June, and 
that there was in effect a six week grace period in operation. No evidence of such an 
arrangement has been provided by BOI. Mr Fs says that when he was in the branch he was 
told by a member of staff that he couldnt carry out any banking. I have no reason to doubt 
Mr Fs assertion, and it would chime with their being an expiry date on the agreement itself. 
But despite this, it is clear from the statements that Mr F did manage to do some banking.
BOI have also pointed out that Mr F could have used the Post Office facilities, a suggestion 
Mr F disputes. BOI say that Mr Fs account terms and conditions explain how he could use 
the Post Office. There is also some wording which appears on the bottom of each statement 
which states, 'You can now withdraw cash, make cash lodgements or check your personal 
balance at any UK Post office, using your business or personal bank card'. One 
interpretation on that statement is that a bank card will be required. Mr F has said he was 
never issued with a card and so the Post Office facility was of no assistance. However, BOI 
have also produced a Post Office leaflet which gives much more detail, and it is clear from 
that leaflet there are other ways of lodging cash and paying in cheques, although to withdraw 
cash it would appear that a card would be required. So, I dont think that the Post Office 
facility would have met all Mr Fs banking requirements since he would have been unable to 
obtain cash without a card, but it would have met some. 
But I come back to the transaction history on his statement which shows that he was able to 
do his banking. So whilst I dont accept there is any evidence to support BOIs argument that 
there was a six week grace period, I do think the Mr F was able to use his account, because 
he did, and he could have made use of the Post Office facility for part of his banking 
requirements if he had wished. 
Overall, I dont see that there has been any adverse impact on Mr F by the expiry of the 
agreement between BOI and Lloyds, and Mr F was able to do his banking throughout July, 
so I cant say BOI has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Ireland (UK) 
Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman