DRN-3295791
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is about a lifetime mortgage they hold with Aviva Equity Release 
UK Limited. They are unhappy with the interest rate that is being applied to the mortgage, as 
mortgage interest rates have generally been much lower in recent years. As such, they 
arent happy that Aviva didnt proactively approach them about re-mortgaging to a lower rate 
or that if they wanted to do so, it would require them to take independent advice, which 
theyd have to pay a significant amount for.
Mr and Mrs D are represented in their complaint by a relative. However, for ease I will 
attribute both Mr and Mrs Ds and their representatives comments to them.
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs D approached a firm of independent financial advisers for advice. A 
lifetime mortgage was recommended, and they applied for the recommended plan. Aviva 
agreed lending of £57,500 of which £21,000 would be paid out, although some of it was to 
be used to cover fees. The balance would remain on the mortgage as a cash reserve for ten 
years, from which Mr and Mrs D could draw further funds. The mortgage was set up with a 
fixed interest rate of 6.35% for the initial advance.
The application was accepted, and Aviva issued a mortgage offer. This provided details of 
the mortgage and gave Mr and Mrs D information about how much they would owe, based 
on the initial advance. The amount owed increases steadily over the years and by the end of 
10 years they would owe nearly £39,000, which would increase to nearly £53,000 by the end 
of the year 15. Section 9 of the offer addressed the matter of the interest rate. It said that the 
interest rate on the initial borrowing was fixed on completion and wouldnt change for the 
duration of the lifetime mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs D drew down further funds from the cash reserve in 2008, 2010 and 2012. 
These advances totalled the amount of the full cash reserve. Different interest rates applied 
to each one and varied between 6.22% and 6.84%.
Following their representative reviewing some documentation about the mortgage, she made 
enquiries. Aviva was asked whether the interest rate could be changed. It was explained that 
the only way this could be done on Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was for them to re-mortgage 
their home to a new lifetime mortgage on a different interest rate. This process would need 
to be done via a financial adviser. This resulted in Mr and Mrs Ds complaint being raised 
with Aviva. 
Aviva explained that while re-mortgaging with it or another lender was an option, it was not 
something Aviva could arrange directly with borrowers. It explained that all it could do was 
provide a consumer with factual information and it was not permitted under the regulations to 
provide financial advice. It went on to say that suggesting to a customer various options for 
repaying a mortgage would fall under activities it wasnt allowed to do. Aviva also expressed 
the opinion that it was a borrowers financial adviser that would remain responsible for 
ensuring its client was aware of any products that were appropriate for their needs. 
In addition, Aviva explained that it offered interest rates that were guaranteed for the full term 
of the mortgage. This gave borrowers the certainty of knowing what their rate would be, 
irrespective of what interest rates did in the external markets. Aviva didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs D werent happy with the response they received about them not being informed 
about the option to re-mortgage onto a lower rate. Aviva explained to them that if it was seen 
to be informing plan holders that a rebroke (or re-mortgage) was a possibility available to 
them to repay their lifetime mortgage, without having been asked for the information, it would 
be construed as implied advice. It continued by explaining that when one option is explained 
to a consumer, all other options must also be explained, and it doesnt have the capacity to 
do that. Aviva again confirmed that it was not authorised to provide mortgage advice on 
regulated mortgages, which lifetime mortgages were. It said that if one of its customers was 
unhappy with their mortgage, they could at any time approach their financial advisers and 
Aviva would provide any information the adviser required. Aviva also highlighted that the 
annual statements sent to Mr and Mrs D stated that it recommended they regularly review 
their mortgage with a qualified financial adviser to ensure the product was still suitable for 
them.
Mr and Mrs D remained dissatisfied with Avivas position. They continued to believe that 
Aviva should have told them many years earlier that they could have re-mortgaged for a 
better interest rate. As such, they believe Aviva should now apply a lower interest rate to 
their mortgage and recalculate the interest that has been applied over the last 14 years.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, but he didnt recommend that 
it be upheld. In relation to the concern about Aviva not proactively contacting Mr and Mrs D 
(and its other customers) about the idea of re-mortgaging, he didnt consider there was any 
requirement for Aviva to do so.  He highlighted that the mortgage was a whole of life product 
and it would only be for Aviva to engage if the customer raised concerns or wanted 
information. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept the investigators view. They said that, given what customers 
signed up for originally, they wouldnt ever consider contacting Aviva about possible options 
for changes. They asked how a customer can be expected to ask for something they are 
unaware of. Mr and Mrs D considered that Aviva should mention the possibility of 
re-mortgaging in the annual statements it sends to its customers and this should be a 
requirement by the regulator. They put forward that had they been made aware that they 
could re-mortgage to a lower interest rate, they would have done so many years ago. 
While our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ds further comments, he wasnt persuaded to 
change his conclusions. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the 
complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly confirm to Mr and Mrs D that we are not the regulator. If they feel the 
regulations are lacking, or need to be changed, they will need to contact the Financial 
Conduct Authority about those concerns.Mr and Mrs D took out the mortgage through an independent financial adviser (IFA). This 
means that the IFA was responsible for ensuring that they understood the mortgage, 
including the long-term options they had, and ensuring that the arrangement was suitable for 
them. There was a second stage to the advice process too, which was that Mr and Mrs D 
needed to speak to an independent solicitor to ensure they understood the mortgage and the 
implications of it for their finances and estate. 
A lifetime mortgage doesnt work in the same way a traditional mortgage does. Put quite 
simply, a lifetime mortgage is designed to be in place for the whole of a borrowers life, or 
until they are no longer able to live in the property because of the need for long-term care. 
So that a lender can assess the appropriate amount to lend, it is quite normal for a fixed 
interest rate to be attached to the mortgage for its entire duration. This also benefits the 
consumer in that they can understand the consequences to their ongoing finances and their 
estate because the amount of the debt can be reliably predicted before the mortgage is 
applied for. There was no option to change the interest rate associated with the mortgage at 
any point. There is nothing wrong with this practice.
Mr and Mrs D are right that the documentation Aviva gave them was based on the 
assumption that they would keep the mortgage for their lifetime. This wasnt unreasonable 
given that is what the mortgage was designed to do. That said, it was also made clear that if 
Mr and Mrs D didnt want the mortgage any longer, they had the option to repay it, but they 
might have to pay an early repayment charge to do so.
Had Mr and Mrs D not been happy with the interest rate they were offered or the amount 
their debt would increase to over the years, they had the choice to decline the mortgage 
offer. However, they accepted the offer and effectively confirmed they were happy with the 
financial consequences of the mortgage. On that basis, I wouldnt have expected Aviva to 
have pro-actively contacted Mr and Mrs D to introduce the concept of re-mortgaging for a 
lower interest rate. This is especially so given the possibility that such action could cost them 
quite a lot of money, due to the possibility of an early repayment charge and the costs 
associated with receiving advice. 
I would also comment that Aviva wouldnt have been in a position to know if Mr and Mrs D 
were unhappy with the interest rate attached to the mortgage unless they raised the issue. If 
they were unhappy with it, they could have questioned it and sought appropriate advice if 
need be. As Aviva and our investigator both confirmed, Aviva isnt in the position to provide 
any such advice, given that it is no longer regulated to provide mortgage advice. 
While I understand Mr and Mrs Ds concerns, I am not persuaded Aviva did anything wrong 
in its dealings with them. They entered into a long-term contract in the knowledge of what it 
meant for them. It was not for Aviva to suggest they shouldnt still be happy with that 
decision and, given that it was unable to provide advice to them, it wasnt in a position to 
draw any conclusions about ongoing suitability of the mortgage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 22 March 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman