DRN-3044700
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) misled them to believe that 
they had no lump sum to pay when their mortgage came to an end and so they didnt make 
provision to do so.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had a mortgage with TMB from 2008. Presently theres about £28,000 due 
when the mortgage term expires in 2022. Mr and Mrs G got some money from an 
inheritance and contacted TMB in October 2018 to find out how much was due. Mrs G was 
told incorrectly by a TMB adviser that if the contractual monthly payments of £122.61 
continued to be paid, the mortgage would be paid off. This was confirmed by TMB in writing. 
Mr and Mrs G began a series of improvements to their house. Then in May 2019, they got a 
letter telling them that in fact a lump sum would be due to TMB, contrary to what they would 
have been told before. 
In December 2020 Mr and Mrs G brought a complaint against TMB. TMB accepted it made 
an error in the letter of October 2018, but that Mr and Mrs G would have known from the 
annual mortgage statements that there would be a balance due. It paid £200 as 
compensation. Our investigation was of the view that it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs G to 
believe what theyd been told by phone and letter from TMB and that this complaint should 
be upheld and for TMB should to pay compensation of £500 in total. Mr and Mrs G 
disagreed saying in summary that the misleading information meant that they spent the 
money on home improvements and so couldnt make proper provision to pay off the lump 
sum payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G would have known for several years that when this mortgage came to an end 
that there would be a lump sum due. Following receipt of an inheritance they were in 
October 2018 in a position to pay it of which I believe was the reason that prompted Mrs G to 
enquire about the outstanding balance in the phone call of October 2018. I note that the 
TMB adviser told her that the information would be double checked which then resulted in 
the letter from TMB confirming that incorrect information. As they were told the information 
was being double-checked, although I assume that Mr and Mrs G would still have a nagging 
doubt about the accuracy of the information, I accept that from October 2018 until May 2019 
that it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs G to assume that they wouldnt have a lump sum to 
pay. 
But in May 2019, they would have got the unwelcome news that the information they got in 
October was wrong. As Mr and Mrs G thought before October that they had a lump sum to 
pay I would have thought they should have realised then that a serious error had been made 
in October by TMB. Ive no doubt this news caused a great deal of disappointment and 
distress to Mr and Mrs G which I agree with our investigator that compensation of £500 is 
appropriate for that. 
The second issue is whether TMBs error deprived Mr and Mrs G of the opportunity to pay 
off the remaining lump sum. Its not clear to me that it did. Mr and Mrs G had £38,000 in their 
savings account in May 2019 and our investigators view, working from what he had been 
told by Mr and Mrs G - that they spent £8,000 on oak framing and roofing  between October 
2018 and May 2019 - was that Mr and Mrs G could have paid off both the home 
improvement costs and the lump sum. Mr G later provided some revised figures in his email 
of 29 July 2021 when he gives the total building costs as £14,200 - but not the dates these 
were incurred- and that there was a gift of £6,000 not yet paid to one of  Mr and Mrs Gs 
daughters in the savings that hadnt yet been expended. 
If Mr and Mrs G spent  £8,000 between October and May and had £38,000 in savings in May 
2019 with the balance of  £12,200 to repay in future building costs and gift, they would still 
have been in a position to pay off the most of the lump sum. What surprises me is that when 
they got the letter in May that they didnt then make immediate contact with TMB to express 
their shock at the about turn from TMB and its effect on them. Mr G in response to our 
enquiry says he didnt contact TMB because he was disappointed with the incompetent 
service he received and thought he was unlikely to get any satisfaction. My view is that if Mr 
and Mrs G had thought that TMBs actions had meant they wouldnt be in a position to pay 
off the lump sum that they would have immediately raised this with TMB. The fact they didnt 
would indicate that Mr and Mrs G felt that they would still be in a position to pay off the lump 
sum regardless of what TMB told them. Indeed, Mr G told us he felt that he could still pay it 
off using some of his savings and some earnings. But unfortunately, since then, the Covid 
Pandemic has had a severe impact on his business which Im sorry to hear. 
My view is that TMBs error would have been disappointing to Mr and Mrs G. But I dont 
accept that it meant that it deprived them of the opportunity to pay the lump sum off. In May, 
when they became aware of the error, they had sufficient savings to pay it off or the bulk of it 
off but at that stage decided to wait and finish a building programme in the expectation that 
the remaining savings and future income would allow them to pay off the lump sum when it 
fell due. Unfortunately, the impact of the Covid pandemic has meant that the earnings they 
expected to accrue, and their savings have diminished. Thats unfortunate but isnt the fault 
of TMB. It doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs G have talked to TMBs End of Term team as to 
what options may be available to them when this mortgage ends. I would urge them to do 
so. But in respect of this complaint I dont find that TMBs actions deprived Mr and Mrs G of 
the ability to pay off the lump sum, but I uphold the complaint and award compensation of 
£500 for their distress and inconvenience. As I understand TMB has paid £200 of this, it 
should now pay the balance of £300.
   
Putting things right
The Mortgage Business PLC should pay Mr and Mrs G £500 in total for their distress and 
inconvenience.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman