DRN-2699452
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance PLC (D&G) declined his claim for 
accidental damage to his TV.
What happened
Mr R had household appliance insurance with D&G. He took out the policy to cover a single 
appliance  his TV  for accidental damage. Three days later, Mr R made a claim for 
damage to the screen of his TV caused when his son tripped and banged into it. D&G 
booked a repair. 
Instead of visiting, D&G asked Mr R to send a photo of the damage so it could determine 
whether the damage could be repaired. It decided the TV couldnt be fixed.
After looking into the claim, D&G decided not to cover the damage and it cancelled the 
policy. It thought that the questions Mr R asked when he took out the policy suggested the 
damage had already happened, and the policy doesnt cover appliances unless they are in 
good working order.
Mr R complained but D&G maintained its position.
Our investigator didnt think D&G dealt with Mr Rs claim fairly and upheld his complaint. She 
thought that Mr Rs questions were reasonable ones for someone taking out a new policy, 
and, because D&G didnt inspect the TV, she didnt think it could demonstrate that the 
damage already existed. Our investigator thought that D&G should pay what it wouldve 
done to replace the TV under the policy and pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its decisions to cancel the policy. She also said D&G should 
remove any records relating to the declined claim and policy cancellation from internal and 
external databases.
D&G didnt agree. It said the questions Mr R asked werent typical of those asked when a 
new policy is agreed. It also thought that if Mr R wanted accidental damage cover for his TV, 
he wouldve bought a policy when he bought the TV six months earlier.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2021 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Rs complaint. Heres what I said:
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear that Mr Rs son hurt his head when he fell into the TV and I want to 
reassure Mr R that his description of the events that led to the damage arent in doubt. My 
role here is to decide whether it was fair and reasonable for D&G to decline Mr Rs claim and 
cancel the policy. To do this Ive set out the timeline of events on which D&G based its 
decision and considered that alongside the evidence available to me.
Mr R bought his TV in May  he supplied a copy of the receipt.
Six months later, in November, he called D&G to buy appliance cover for his TV.
Three days later he called D&G to claim for accidental damage to his TV screen.
Ive listened to the sales call and the key points are as follows:
Mr R asked for accidental damage cover for his TV
D&G explained what it would cover, for example, screen damage or if the TV fell off 
its stand.
Mr R repeated back that screen damage was covered and D&G reconfirmed.
D&G went through the quote.
Mr R asked whether the cover started straight away and whether he could cancel at 
any time. D&G confirmed both.
He asked again whether screen damage was covered and whether D&G would 
collect the TV for repair. Mr R also asked if it breaks, will the same TV be provided. 
D&G confirmed all points.
D&G offered cover for other appliances, which Mr R rejected.
Mr R asked whether cover could start that day and D&G said it would.
D&G took bank details for payment and concluded the sale.
D&G gave the plan number to Mr R and he checked whether that was the number he 
should quote if he made a claim. 
Mr R asked if something happened to the TV in one, two or three weeks would it be 
covered. 
D&G confirmed it would and the sales call ended.
 
Ive also listened to the claim call. Mr R started out by giving his plan number and said he 
wanted to claim for accidental damage to his TV. He said, that morning, his son ran with a 
phone charger in his hand, into the screen, hitting his head. The rest of the call related to 
arrangements for repairs and confirmation of the TV model.
In making a claim, it was Mr Rs responsibility to show that an insured event had happened. 
He described the event, and on request he supplied D&G with a photo of his TV and the 
damaged screen. He also supplied a copy of the receipt and manufacturer warranty as proof 
of purchase. D&G chose not to inspect the TV because it was satisfied that the damage had 
happened and couldnt be repaired.
The responsibility then transferred to D&G to either accept the claim or show that a policy 
exclusion applied if it decided to decline. It declined Mr Rs claim because it thought the 
timeline and questions he asked during the sale suggested the damage had already 
happened when he took out the cover. The policy states:
Important information about your policy
Your product must be:
in good working order when you take out the policy
And, 
Important conditions
All information you give must be true, factual and not misleading.
The dispute, then, is about whether it was fair for D&G to decline the claim without any 
evidence that the damage was already present when Mr R took out the cover. 
This is a finely balanced complaint and I can see why the parties cant agree. Mr R checked 
more than once that his cover started immediately, only for D&G to decline his claim because it was so soon after the policy started. Arguably, if D&G wasnt going to honour a 
claim so soon after inception, then it mightve been fairer to apply a brief period of exclusion 
at the start of the policy. 
But I dont think its as simple as D&G declining the claim because of how close it was to 
policy inception. D&G explained that it declined the claim because the damage matched 
exactly that which Mr R asked about in the sales call just a couple of days earlier. And he 
asked about it twice. He also asked, three times, whether cover could start immediately. 
Thinking about the questions, then, I can see why D&G was doubtful, not about what 
happened, but about when it happened.
Although D&G cant prove when the damage happened, I think it has given a fair explanation 
of why it thought, on balance, that the damage was already present when Mr R took out the 
policy. I think it was fair for D&G to question the claim and, ultimately, decline it. If D&G had 
declined it based on timeline alone, its likely my decision wouldve been different. But I think 
D&G has fairly declined Mr Rs claim because of the number of times he checked whether 
cover was immediate, because he specifically asked about the exact damage he later 
claimed for, and because the decision to take out the policy didnt coincide with the TV 
purchase.
Overall, I think the circumstances of this claim are unfortunate, but I dont think it was unfair 
for D&G to decline the claim and cancel the policy. I wont be asking it to settle the claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
D&G had nothing further to add. 
Mr R asked why D&G didnt just reject his claim right from the beginning, instead of 
progressing as if it intended to accept it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that it mustve been frustrating for Mr R to think D&G intended to accept his 
claim, only to be told it had cancelled his policy. The information upon which D&G relied 
wouldnt have been evident right at the start, so Im satisfied that it took some time to 
investigate Mr Rs claim. And in doing so, D&G demonstrated that it made a considered 
decision about declining the claim and cancelling the policy. 
Mr R hasnt provided anything further which persuades me to change my provisional 
findings.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Rs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Debra VaughanOmbudsman