DRN-3017669
The complaint
Mr R complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) unfairly issued a refund for 
an electronic tablet he sold.  
What happened
Mr R sold an electronic tablet via an online auction site in July 2020. He says he posted that 
item to the buyer on 23 July 2020 via Royal Mails Special Delivery Service. The buyer 
subsequently contacted PayPal to raise a claim  alleging the electronic tablet wasnt inside 
the package when it arrived, and the packaging had been tampered with. 
Mr R sent PayPal proof of postage and contacted Royal Mail to query the buyers claim 
about the package being tampered with. After investigating, Royal Mail advised it thought the 
item was likely delivered as addressed and intact. The buyer supplied PayPal with a copy of 
an email from Action Fraud. Mr R also reported things to Action Fraud, as he believed the 
buyer was making a false claim.  
PayPal reviewed the claim under the goods Significantly Not as Described provision of its 
Buyer Protection policy, and refunded the purchase to the buyer in November 2020. Mr R 
raised a complaint, and PayPal responded to say the correct procedures had been followed 
and he should purse the matter with the courier directly. As he wasnt happy with the 
response, Mr R referred the complaint to our service for review.
An investigator here thought the complaint should be upheld. His view said the evidence 
provided by Mr R was stronger than the buyers. He thought the weight of the package on 
the proof of postage receipt matched what the tablet and charger would have weighed. So 
that showed Mr R had likely sent the item. He also thought the evidence from Royal Mail 
suggested the package had arrived at the buyers address intact. PayPal didnt agree  and 
sent us a copy of a document it said confirmed the buyer had not received their goods. 
The investigator reviewed that document and thought it was automated response from 
Action Fraud, not evidence of any investigation confirming the goods hadnt been received. 
PayPal maintained that it had been supplied with evidence of report showing the buyer had 
brought the empty package to the police and sworn their claim was true. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint  Ill explain why.
PayPal has had multiple opportunities to send us any evidence it has to support its case. All 
weve received is a copy of an email the buyer was sent by Action Fraud. The email is an 
automated response message confirming that an incident was logged with Action Fraud 
online. It doesnt have any details of the incident reported, nor does it say an investigation 
has taken place. It also isnt evidence that the buyer went to the police with the damaged 
packaging and swore their testimony was the truth. Mr R has provided us with a copy of the 
same automated confirmation message from Action Fraud in letter form  as he also 
reported the matter to the police. I consider both those pieces of evidence cancel each other 
out  as they show both the buyer and seller were equally confident enough in their claim to 
register it with Action Fraud.
The only other evidence weve got from PayPal is its assertion the buyer told it the package 
had arrived empty and tampered with. I havent seen any pictures to support that being the 
case, so I can only assume they dont exist. Meaning the buyers testimony wasnt supported 
by any other evidence  it was just their word against Mr Rs. The onus is on the seller, 
though, to show they sent a package, and Mr R has supplied that in the form of a Royal Mail 
receipt. But we know the package arrived, as the buyer has confirmed as much. 
The remaining issues to decide are whether its likely the package contained the tablet, and 
on balance whether the package arrived in tact. Mr Rs proof of postage shows the weight of 
the package sent  and that amount matches what Id expect this model of tablet and its 
charger (plus packaging) to weigh. So, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I 
consider the package likely did contain the tablet. 
Royal Mail investigated the claim that the package didnt arrive intact, and after speaking 
with staff at the sorting office concluded that it had been delivered successfully and 
undamaged. Theres a process it follows if a package is damaged in transit, and Royal Mail 
said that wasnt followed in this case. The item was sent via Royal Mails premium next day 
delivery service  which suggests that even more care was taken over the package. It also 
strikes me as less likely that the package would have been resealed, and an empty box 
delivered, if a Royal Mail staff member had taken the tablet. I find it more likely the package 
would have gone missing in those circumstances. So, on balance, and in the absence of any 
evidence from the buyer that the package had been tampered with, I consider that it most 
likely arrived intact (and contained the tablet).
PayPal said it considered the claim under the goods Significantly Not as Described policy  
but the buyer claimed the item wasnt actually delivered to them (the package was empty). 
So it should have been considered as an "Item Not Received" claim. Mr R was also eligible 
for Sellers Protection, as far as I can tell. Taking account of all the above, I find the evidence 
Mr R supplied to defend the claim was stronger than what was provided to PayPal by the 
buyer. So, overall I dont consider PayPal treated Mr R fairly or reasonably when it reversed 
the funds from the sale of the tablet. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Im directing PayPal to refund the amount that was taken from Mr Rs 
account (pay him back £458.99). PayPal should also add to that refund 8% yearly simple 
interest, calculated from the date it reversed the funds up until the day it pays him back  to 
compensate Mr R for the time he was without the money. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint about PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA, 
and direct PayPal to put things right in the way Ive set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2021.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman