DRN-1712958
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that BUPA Insurance Limited declined Mr Hs private health 
insurance claim even though it had initially pre-authorised the treatment and about its 
service.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have private health insurance through a group policy, BUPA is the insurer. 
Mr H has osteoarthritis of the knee. In mid December 2018 he saw to a specialist consultant 
who outlined options for treatment which included a course of platelet rich plasma (PRP) 
injections. A few days later Mr H called BUPA about cover for the treatment. BUPA gave him 
a pre-authorisation code for three separate injections, physiotherapy and a follow up 
appointment with the consultant.
The first injection was scheduled for the end of January 2019 but two days before treatment 
the consultants secretary called Mr H to say BUPA wouldnt cover the treatment. Mr H is 
very unhappy that BUPA withdrew the pre-authorisation. He decided to pay for the first 
injection.
BUPA said it had initially pre-authorised the treatment based on information the consultants 
secretary gave it about the treatment Mr H required and the procedure code, which was 
covered under the policy. However, a few days before the start of the treatment the hospital 
asked BUPA for its pre-authorisation code and BUPA was then given different information 
about Mr Hs treatment and a different procedure code. BUPA said the new information 
meant the treatment wasnt covered by the policy and fell under the policy exclusion for 
temporary relief of symptoms or ongoing management of a condition. 
BUPA apologised for any inconvenience and upset caused and told Mr H that as a gesture 
of goodwill it had paid £167 into his bank account, which it said was for the first PRP 
injection.
Mr and Mrs H complained to us. They dont accept BUPAs explanation and Mr H feels 
badly let down by BUPA. Mr H said the first injection cost £1,754 so much more than the 
£167 which he hadnt received from BUPA. He noted the £167 was supposedly paid two 
days before BUPA even acknowledged his complaint which suggested it had already made 
a decision about his complaint. Mr H also said BUPA hadnt responded to his two letters 
following its final response letter.
Mr and Mrs H want BUPA to pay for the treatment it originally authorised and Mr H says hes 
been frustrated and upset by BUPAs actions.
Our investigator said BUPA had fairly withdrawn pre-authorisation once it had the correct  
information about Mr Hs proposed treatment and BUPA not responding to Mr Hs two letters 
wasnt good service but hadnt made any difference to the outcome of the claim. BUPA had 
told us the £167 was the consultants appointment cost and it had paid the hospital direct.
Mr and Mrs H wants an ombudsmans decision. Mr H said BUPA pre-authorised the 
treatment after a full discussion and when he later spoke to the consultant he said he didnt 
know the procedure codes so maybe the quoted codes were wrong. Mr H said hed fully paid 
for the one-off January treatment so the £167 BUPA paid must have been for the invoice 
from December 2018. He also said if BUPA had responded to his two letters he would have 
been less stressed.
Before I made my decision  I asked BUPA to clarify the position about the £167 payment. Ill 
refer to its response in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H but I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy covers treatments of acute conditions which the policy defines as :
a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to 
return you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, 
illness or injury, or which leads to your full recovery.
The policy doesnt cover chronic conditions (which the policy defines) except eligible 
treatment arising out of a chronic condition, or for treatment of acute symptoms of a chronic 
condition that flare up. But theres only cover if the treatment is likely to lead quickly to a 
complete recovery or the policyholder being restored fully to their previous state of health, 
without them having to receive prolonged treatment.
The policy specially excludes treatment the main purpose or effect of which is to provide 
temporary relief of symptoms or which is for the ongoing management of a condition.
BUPA sent us the eligibility criteria for PRP injections for knee osteoarthritis. It will pay a 
claim if there is an acute episode of knee osteoarthritis and Mr H meets one of several 
criteria. 
Im satisfied that BUPA initially pre-authorised the treatment on the basis of information 
about the treatment from the hospital which was incorrect. 
When the hospital called BUPA to get pre-authorisation for a different treatment code BUPA 
reasonably wanted more information about the treatment. From the later conversations 
BUPA had with the hospital and Mr Hs consultant it could reasonably understand that: Mr H 
wasnt awaiting imminent surgery; the physiotherapy hed had hadnt worked; he hadnt had 
a recent accident resulting in an acute injury; the treatment for Mr H didnt meet any of the 
other eligibility criteria for cover. 
On the basis of the new information BUPA fairly and reasonably said Mr Hs proposed 
treatment wasnt covered. 
Mr H told us that in the year since he had the first injection his pain has been much reduced 
so the result wasnt just a temporary relief of symptoms. Im pleased for Mr H that theres 
been some success with the treatment, but that doesnt mean BUPA unfairly declined the 
claim. I understand Mr Hs frustration that BUPA initially pre-authorised treatment but Im satisfied 
that its decision was based on wrong information from the hospital and BUPA isnt 
responsible for that error. Also, Mr H was told that BUPA wouldnt cover the treatment before 
the first treatment date. So he chose to go ahead with the first injection knowing BUPA had 
said it wouldnt cover the cost. 
The information BUPAs given about it making the goodwill payment of £167 has been 
confusing. It told Mr H it paid him then told us it had paid the hospital. In response to my 
request for clarification BUPA now say it initially paid the hospital and it assumes Mr H 
mentioned having paid the hospital so it adjusted the payment to go to him. Mr H may not 
agree with BUPAs assumption. But ultimately BUPA says that if Mr H hasnt received the 
£167 it can arrange for him to be paid. So Mr H needs to contact BUPA direct to obtain the 
payment. 
BUPA telling Mr H about the goodwill payment led him to believe that although it wrote to 
him saying it was considering his concerns it had already decided his complaint. I can see 
his point. But I think BUPA did give a full and reasonable response to his complaint and as 
BUPA didnt do anything wrong about the claim it was a goodwill payment BUPA didnt need 
to make. 
Mr H was frustrated by BUPA not responding to his two letters following its final response 
letter. Thats not good service by BUPA but not so poor that Id award compensation to Mr H. 
BUPA had already made clear it had given a final response to his complaint and he could 
complain to us, so he didnt need to wait for a response to those letters.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman