DRN-3654344
The complaint
Mr C complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to purchase a joint-life annuity. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Origen Financial Services Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to it as Origen. 
What happened
At the time, Mr C was a deferred member of an OPS. Hed accrued the benefits from service 
with a previous employer. 
In 2019, the scheme signalled an intention to offer a time-limited enhancement to the cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) for deferred members who opted to leave the DB scheme. 
In Mr Cs case, an offer of around £16,000 to the CETV of approximately £89,000 was being 
made, making the total enhanced CETV around £105,000. Members of the scheme were 
also being offered regulated financial advice, the cost of which was being met by the 
scheme. Origen was contracted to provide that advice.
Information gathered about Mr C at that time was broadly as follows:
He was currently 57 years old, married and had a 12-year-old child. The normal 
retirement age (NRA) of Mr Cs OPS was 63. 
He and Mrs C both worked full time and earned around £1,600 per month (net) each. 
Mr C had three other small pensions comprising two DB schemes with NRAs of 60 
and a stakeholder pension. Mrs C had a public sector DB pension she was 
contributing to currently and had been in for around 16 years.
Although employed, Mr C had expressed concern that the type of work he did was 
precarious as it was in a sector where funding for his role was being met on a year-
by-year contract basis. He was worried he wouldnt be able to work for much longer.
Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage with around £47,000 outstanding for 11 more years 
and costing around £400 per month. They had some savings in place of around 
£6,000 and a small number of shares.
Mr C said he had a number of ongoing chronic health conditions. Mrs C was said to 
be in good health and she was around 12 years younger than Mr C.
In November 2019, Origen advised Mr C to transfer out of his defined-benefit OPS and use 
the funds to invest in an annuity plan from which he also took a 25% tax-free lump sum.
Mr C now says he was given unsuitable advice by Origen. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint and said we shouldnt uphold it. Mr C hasnt agreed with our investigator. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Origen should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in the consumers best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Having looked at all the evidence available, Im satisfied the transfer of Mr Cs pension was 
in his best interests.
Overview and points of complaint
The suitability report of 11 November 2019 recommended that Mr C transfer the benefits of 
his OPS and use the funds to purchase a joint-life annuity without index-linking. The 
recommendation said that hed be paid £2,708 per year with immediate effect and have 
access to a tax-free lump sum of £26,283. Origen said this was suitable for Mr C and would 
achieve his objectives.
Mr C is represented in bringing his complaint. His representative makes a large number of 
points all of which Ive considered in detail. However, I have focussed on what I consider to 
be the main issues in my decision. 
These include that Mr C wasnt given enough information by Origen and that he wasnt told 
enough about the disadvantages of transferring out of his OPS. His representative also said 
he wasnt told enough about the differences between the annuity Mr C was recommended to 
buy, and the scheme he was leaving. Mr C was said to have had no valid reason to retire at 
57 and that he intended to work until he was 67 and indeed, that he still does work today. 
Finally, Mr C himself said the loss of what he called the wider benefits his pension 
contained had subsequently become apparent to him and he thought this was an important 
issue to raise. 
In bringing all these points and others together, Mr Cs representative made the case that he 
could have simply remained in the OPS until such time as he needed to access the scheme 
in the way it was originally intended. 
To help me think about whether the advice was in Mr Cs best interests, Ive considered 
everything we have in this case with great care, including the documentation used during the 
advice process and a substantial call-recording between Mr C and the Origen adviser.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
In my view, from a longer-term financial comparison perspective, transferring out of Mr Cs 
OPS was going to leave him with lower pension benefits overall. For example, Origen 
referred in its transfer analysis to critical yield rates. The critical yield is essentially the 
average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the 
time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity income as the DB scheme. It is 
therefore part of a range of different things which help me consider how likely it is that a 
personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for the transfer out to 
become financially viable.
Origen said the critical yield required to match Mr Cs benefits at the age of 63 was 12.5% if 
he took a full pension and 10.3% if he took a tax-free cash element and a reduced pension. 
It also said that to buy a pension with similar benefits on the open market this would have 
cost around £182,000, showing the real overall value of the pension benefits Mr C enjoyed 
within his current scheme.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 3.3% per year for 6 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
As both the discount rate and the regulators projections were below the critical yield rates, I 
think these things all showed that Mr C would most likely receive lower retirement benefits in 
the longer-term by transferring out and investing his funds.  However, in this particular case, 
I think there were other specific considerations to take into account as well as these longer-
term financial comparisons. Origens advice to transfer out was not based on Mr C investing 
his funds until a later date. Rather, it was predicated on Mr C accessing his pension in a 
different way, based on his individual circumstances which I think showed transferring out 
was worthy of consideration. 
So, to think about this, Ive examined the discussions he had with Origen and the overall 
advice he received.
What did Mr C and Origen discuss?
Ive listened to a recording of the call Mr C had with the Origen adviser in 2019 and also 
looked at the documents we still have access to from when the advice was given. As regards 
the call, I think its fair to point out this was a lengthy discussion during which I think the 
adviser listened to Mr C and also took account of his circumstances and objectives. In my 
view, Mr C was given time to speak and articulate his thoughts and views.
Its also clear to me that Mr C emphasised during the discussion that although he was then 
employed in a full-time position, he viewed his employment situation as somewhat 
precarious. He told the adviser, for instance, that he was on a contract which was basically 
funded on a year-by-year basis and that he feared this wouldnt be extended past the next 
couple of years. Mr C stressed that he worked in the charity sector and working past the age 
of 60 was unlikely, even though he would have wanted to work until his state pension age if 
possible.
With this in mind, Mr C and the adviser discussed what his objectives were. These included 
reducing his outstanding mortgage by as much as possible and building up some savings to 
cater for what he saw as the probability of losing income in the short-to-medium term. Mr C had some modest savings and disposable income already and I think its clear that what he 
wanted to do was add to these in order to responsibly prepare for a future in which he 
considered an income reduction was likely.
The amount of income Mr and Mrs C would need if this happened was discussed. A figure of 
£24,000 per year (or around £2,000 per month) was what Mr C said his family would need 
providing the mortgage was paid off  and as Mrs C earned around £1,600 per month, there 
was a shortfall. Mr C and the adviser went on to discuss his health and also the relevant fact 
of him being 12 years senior to his wife. In the event of him pre-deceasing her, Mr C said 
shed need around £1,500 per month to live on.
I therefore think Mr C clearly told the adviser of his concern about losing his income and of 
his family potentially not being able to financially cope. In this regard, he and the adviser 
discussed a middle path whereby he could access his OPSs enhanced offer and transfer 
the CETV to another type of product. The adviser noted Mr Cs wish not to be exposed to 
any stock market risk and so an annuity was recommended as opposed to a personal 
pension and drawdown facility, which involved an exposure to market fluctuations. With the 
annuity Mr C would draw an income to help him save money in the short-term whilst still 
working. In the event of him losing his job as he feared, this would convert from monthly 
savings, to an income designed to cater for the income gap that would emerge by him 
being unable to work. 
I also think the option to do nothing was one which Mr C understood as this too was 
outlined in the suitability report. It included examples of what his ceding scheme could 
deliver under different age / retirement scenarios. Full annual pensions within the OPS, 
commencing at two different ages were presented to Mr C in the report, together with 
alternatives of taking reduced pensions at the same ages and a tax-free lump sum element. 
So, I think it was clear enough to Mr C that he could remain in the OPS and that there was a 
degree of flexibility as to when and how he might want to take the benefits if he did so.
In the event, however, a joint-life annuity paying £2,791 per year was recommended to Mr C 
by the Origen adviser. By taking this option Mr C was also able to draw a tax-free cash 
element of £26,285 which he could use to pay down some of his mortgage and pay for some 
home improvements. The annuity Origen recommended contained a 5-year guarantee 
whereby if Mr C died within that period Mrs C would be able to access the full annuity 
amount of £2,791 per year  and if he passed away after this 5-year period, shed get 50% 
of the annuity amount. 
As Ill explain below, I think these annuity figures had shorter-term benefits over those 
provided by Mr Cs OPS.
Were there any downsides to the recommendation?
Mr Cs representative has made a number of points. As Ive said, I have read everything 
thats been said on his behalf but will focus here on what I consider to be the salient issues.
A major point made on his behalf is that Mr C didnt need to access his pension benefits at 
that point. And Ive considered that he was still only around 57 years of age at that time and 
still employed. However, it was Mr C himself who raised the issue about the job he had and 
the sector he was working in facing uncertainties and what he saw as the likelihood of losing 
his income quite soon. He also made it clear that reducing or paying off his mortgage was a 
key factor in his familys financial viability as he aged. In my view, Mr C wanted to be 
prepared for this eventuality and the Origen adviser was entitled to take seriously the fears 
Mr C was putting forward.So, whilst I accept that Mr C did not at that point need to transfer his pension at all, I think he 
saw very good reasons for doing so. And I agree that if his concerns were real to him, then 
preparing for a loss of income in this way was not an unreasonable thing to do. 
In my view, Mr C also had good uses for both the income derived from the annuity and the 
tax-free lump sum, even at the age of 57. He told the adviser he wanted to partly pay his 
mortgage down with the tax-free cash and mainly save the resultant income; these things 
were part and parcel of his preparations for later life and the income reduction he perceived 
would result. So, I dont think the recommendation was unsuitable in this context  Mr C was 
simply preparing financially for something he perceived as a very real risk. And I dont think 
that Origen simply acted on Mr Cs wishes, I think it considered the alternatives and 
ultimately recommended a suitable option for Mr C.  
What were Mr Cs alternatives?
Ive considered that Mr C could have simply remained with the pension he had; he could 
have accessed his OPS at this point  aged 57  rather than transferring out, with a view to 
covering off those same risks. 
He could also have remained inside the OPS and waited until much later, say the ages of 
60, 63 or even 67, to do the same thing. But given what Mr C wanted to achieve, I dont think 
these options would have met his needs. For immediate retirement from the OPS, for 
example, he would have had access to an annual pension of £1,861 and a tax-free lump 
sum of £12,407. For later retirement ages, the annual pension progressively rose  at 63 he 
could have secured a £3,000 per year pension for example. But the OPS still delivered lower 
lump sums than he got from the recommended annuity in each case. At 63, he could get a 
lump sum of £16,283 if hed stayed in the OPS. And even if he delayed his pension 
substantially, until he was 67 years old, he would get a lump sum of £23,581 by staying in 
the OPS.
So overall, these figures relating to remaining inside or taking benefits from his OPS 
delivered less tax-free cash for Mr C to pay off his mortgage with, which is what he wanted 
to do. This was less than he could achieve by accepting the recommendation put forward by 
Origen.
Of course, I do completely accept the annuity had some disadvantages. The recommended 
annuity was not index-linked and, in the longer-term, it was less beneficial to Mr C from a 
financial comparison perspective. So in effect, if Mr C lived a long life, his OPS benefits 
would start from a lower base, but eventually overtake the benefits he was getting through 
the annuity. 
But depending on the scenario, Origen explained to him that this might take several years. 
Mr Cs thoughts and concerns were, however, clearly about the shorter term  and given his 
health, the difference in his and Mrs Cs ages, and their overall financial circumstances, 
I dont think the annuity recommendation was unreasonable. I think the recommendation to 
transfer out and buy the annuity was suitable in this case as it provided a viable solution to 
Mr Cs perceived income gap. I think it clearly provided him with reassurance on matters that 
genuinely concerned him.
Ive considered that the annuity was a level-term product rather than one which increased 
with inflation. Ive also noted Mr Cs representatives comments on this, particularly given the 
current period of inflation we are now experiencing, in 2022. However, this advice was given 
in 2019 in economic circumstances that were different. In fact, I think the discussion about 
index-linking was comprehensive, and it was discussed alongside other options such as 
making the annuity a single-life policy, rather than a joint one. In my view, the index-linking conversation the parties had was open and frank to a degree that Mr C understood he had a 
choice. Products where index-linking was or wasnt present were discussed and ultimately 
the latter is what was chosen, based on it being largely a strategy to fill the gap until Mr C 
could access the state pension. So, in any event, I think the adviser took note of Mr Cs 
situation when making the recommendation. 
I also think the adviser took proper account of his attitude to, and needs for, index-linking. 
His desire was for a risk-free product that supported his wife in the eventuality of Mr Cs 
death  in my view this was duly considered. The adviser was clear that what she was 
recommending had certain strengths and weaknesses, but that her recommendation was a 
way of bridging the anticipated earnings gap Mr C had himself cited, until he reached state 
retirement age. Everything Ive seen (and listened to) in this case shows Mr C understood 
these types of trade off and what he mainly wanted was the reassurance that his family 
could financially survive him losing his job and being unable to work again as he entered into 
his late fifties / sixties. Alternatively, if this feared unemployment didnt happen, hed be able 
to continue saving his additional monthly annuity income in the hope his financial position 
upon entering this potential retirement phase in his life would be sufficiently strong.
Other pensions 
Mr C had two other deferred DB pensions and a stakeholder pension. I think the two DB 
pensions are somewhat relevant to his situation in that they complemented the strategy 
above of bridging the perceived income gap until he reached state pension age. Again, 
these couldnt be described as large pensions, comprising as they did, of only around 
£2,400 per year in total. But crucially, there were further tax-free lump sums to be had. I 
think its fair to place some caveats of the estimated values because some estimations were 
from several years ago, but it does seem to me that with these, Mr C would have been able 
to effectively clear his whole outstanding mortgage. As both pensions appear to have been 
accessible at 60, I think this further complemented the strategy being recommended by the 
Origen adviser. 
It's not entirely clear how great a part these pensions played in the overall recommendation 
 they were only briefly mentioned during the call although they were set out in more detail in 
the written recommendation. However, its clear to be that Mr C knew of their existence and 
as they were also set out in the suitability letter, I think its reasonable to assume he 
considered them when thinking about what he wanted to do.
Other considerations 
For the above reasons I think the recommendation, given Mr Cs situation, was suitable. In 
arriving at that view Ive applied what I think were the choices Mr C faced at the time. I think 
he understood these and the line the adviser was trying to tread. Ive also taken account of 
the regulators starting position on DB pension transfers and also the financial comparisons 
in Mr Cs case that showed some longer-term benefits in remaining inside, rather than 
transferring out, of his OPS. 
However, I have also considered a range of other issues, many of which were raised by 
Mr Cs representative. Ill deal with these other issues in turn.
Reduction in spouse benefits due to age difference: 
Ive set out in general terms the types of benefits Mr C would be giving up by 
transferring out of his OPS. Pensions of this nature usually contain death benefits 
which are important considerations in assessing the overall value of the scheme. 
Mr Cs OPS did contain death benefits and so Mrs C would have had an annual amount available in the event of Mr C pre-deceasing her. However, Mr Cs OPS 
contained certain rules whereby the annual spouses pension was reduced in cases 
where the spouse was more than 10 years younger than the scheme member. In this 
case as Ive explained, Mr C was 12 years older than Mrs C, so if he had died first, 
reductions to Mrs Cs entitlement under the OPS would have applied. 
As no such reduction applied to the recommended annuity, I think this significant 
factor would have been one Mr C would have wanted to consider. I cant say for sure 
that this was discussed between the parties, but I think it strengthens the case for the 
action recommended by Origen. 
Taxation: 
I have considered that by buying an annuity which paid Mr C an annual amount 
whilst he was still working, would have subjected that to 20% tax. And I can 
understand the view that removing funds from a tax-free vehicle to a taxed one could 
be construed as unsuitable. However, as Ive explained, Mr C demonstrated a 
genuine need for a small additional income to help prepare him for what he thought 
was likely  a forthcoming period of unemployment. Had he entered such a phase, 
his tax liability would have reduced or been eliminated completely under the cover of 
his annual personal tax allowance. Overall, I think the benefits of beginning the 
annuity with immediate effect outweighed the disadvantages and these included Mr 
C preparing to bridge an income gap in his sixties.
The enhanced CETV: 
Mr Cs representative implied that this offer of enhancement might have been 
improved upon if offered again in subsequent months or years. However, overall I 
think the enhanced CETV probably played only a limited part in the recommendation 
to transfer: the rationale for the recommendation lay elsewhere. I also think its 
unlikely that the enhanced offer would have been improved. Looking through the lens 
of that time, I think its fair to say the OPS was trying to address its future liabilities 
and funding challenges whilst offering deferred members a reasonable enticement to 
leave the scheme.
Summary
In this decision Ive set out why I think the recommendation to transfer from his OPS and buy 
a joint annuity was suitable for Mr C.
In my view, Mr Cs circumstances as of 2019 required very careful thought and I think its fair 
to say he faced some difficult choices. Overall, his pension provisions were very modest. On 
one hand, he was being offered an enhancement to leave one of his deferred DB pension 
schemes. But this scheme also contained certain guarantees and benefits, including index-
linking and a spouses pension in the event of Mr Cs death. The latter of these faced a 
reduction due to the rules about younger spouses.
On the other hand Mr C believed, that whilst he was in full-time employment at that particular 
moment, his job was very much on borrowed time. He portrayed this to Origen as a genuine 
and real concern and one which he wanted  and needed  to address. Mr C also expressed 
concern that his family would not be able to cope financially with such a loss of income and 
so the discussion that subsequently took place with Origen focussed on these issues.
Mr C also made it clear that he did not enjoy good health and he was concerned that if he 
pre-deceased Mrs C, 12 years his junior, she wouldnt have enough to live on. Mr C had 
three chronic health conditions and said hed been in hospital twice with an apparent serious problem that couldnt be diagnosed. So, Mr C wanted these factors to be taken into account 
during the advice process. Overall, I think the adviser obliged.
Whilst not an experienced investor, Mr C was, in my view, a competent and sensible person 
who clearly understood the challenges and risks he faced. I think its clear from the advice 
call that he also understood the advice and the context in which it was being set out. I also 
think he understood why it was being given and what hed be giving up in transferring away 
from the DB scheme. I therefore think many of the complaint points made on his behalf 
about poor information and a lack of understanding are not persuasive. 
In the end, the advice to transfer out and buy an annuity was substantially based on Mr C 
effectively bridging a perceived income gap between his current age of 57 and his state 
pension age of 67. In between these ages, hed be able to access his other minor DB 
schemes.
As unlikely his loss of income or inability to work might now seem with the benefit of 
hindsight, Mr C himself portrayed this at the time as a very real concern. In preparation for 
this eventuality Mr C wanted to pay down some debt on his mortgage and pay for 
improvements on his home. And he wanted the annuity to be in place to either save in the 
event the additional income from the annuity wasnt needed  or spend in the event that it 
was. These things were part of a plan to reach retirement at the age of 67 in financially good 
shape.
So, I dont think the lack of indexation in the annuity was unreasonable, given the other 
benefits this option brought. The adviser did discuss annuities with index-linked elements, 
and they also correctly took note of Mr Cs very cautious attitude to risk and his desire for a 
50% pension for Mrs C. Mr Cs situation was therefore specific to him. His OPS had certain 
limitations in his circumstances and I believe his employment worries, his health and his age 
were all properly factored in to both his thinking and the financial advice he was given. 
In my view, these issues outweighed the disadvantages in the recommendation Origen put 
forward. Overall and given his circumstances, I therefore think the advice was suitable and in 
his best interests.
For these reasons, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Im very sorry to disappoint him.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not require Origen Financial Services Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman