DRN-2159657
The complaint
Mr S complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) lent irresponsibly to him.
What happened
Mr S took out a total of 13 loans with Cashfloat between June 2015 and January 2019. 
Details of Mr Ss loans were as follows:
Loan Date 
borrowedDate repaid Amount No. of 
instalments
1 16.06.15 06.07.15 £200 1
2 09.07.15 06.09.15 £250 2
Break in lending
3 18.03.16 25.06.16 £500 4
Break in lending
4 15.11.16 06.03.17 £400 3
5 14.03.17 06.06.17 £400 3
6 28.08.17 06.11.17 £250 2
7 18.12.17 06.02.18 £300 2
8 24.03.18 28.04.18 £400 3
9 30.09.18 04.01.19 £350 3
10 07.01.19 03.05.19 £500 4
11 03.05.19 18.05.19 £500 4
12 28.06.19 04.10.19 £300 3
13 30.11.19 06.03.20 £400 3
Each of the loans was due to be repaid in a number of monthly instalments. Mr S says, in 
summary, that although he managed to make all his repayments on time, he was struggling, 
and had to go without necessities in order to make the repayments. He believes that if 
Cashfloat had carried out proper checks, it would have realised this, and should have 
refused to lend to him.
Cashfloat didnt accept that it had been wrong to lend to Mr S. But it offered to pay him £500 
as a gesture of goodwill. Mr S wasnt happy with Cashfloats offer, and brought his complaint 
to us.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, he didnt think 
Cashfloat had been wrong to make the first six loans to Mr S. But he thought that by the time 
Mr S applied for loan 7, Cashfloat should have realised that Mr Ss pattern of borrowing 
suggested that hed become reliant on short-term loans. So he said Cashfloat shouldnt have 
agreed to loans 7 to13. And he said it should pay Mr S some compensation, and make some 
amendments to his credit file.
Cashfloat wasnt happy with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Cashfloat on 6 August 2020. I summarise my findings:
I explained that weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
that Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
It was important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr S is loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on as and 
pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow 
that this was the case. This was because the relevant regulations define sustainable as 
being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Id carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ss complaint.Cashfloat did some checks before it lent to Mr S. It asked him for details of his income, 
and his normal expenditure. And its told us it checked his credit file before agreeing the 
loans.
As Id mentioned earlier, each of Mr Ss loans was repayable in instalments. So the 
amounts that he needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal 
payday loan. But of course he was committing to making those repayments over a 
much longer period.
I thought that the checks Cashfloat did before agreeing the first three loans were 
proportionate, given the amounts Mr S needed to repay each month, his declared 
income and his borrowing history with Cashfloat. But I thought there were some 
warning signs that Cashfloat should have picked up on when Mr S applied for loan 3. 
I said this because the credit report that Cashfloat obtained showed that Mr Ss 
financial position had deteriorated since hed applied for the previous loans. It showed 
that he had at least three loans already running with other short-term lenders. And a 
default had recently been registered against Mr S. So I thought Cashfloat should have 
realised when Mr S applied for loan 3 that he was having problems managing his 
money. And I didnt think it should have agreed to make loan 3 to Mr S.
There was gap of more than four months between loans 3 and 4. Given that there had, 
in turn been a gap of more than six months between loans 2 and 3. I was satisfied, on 
balance, that it was reasonable of Cashfloat to treat Mr S as effectively a new borrower 
when he applied for loan 4, and to base its checks accordingly. And I didnt think that 
the checks that Cashfloat carried out when Mr S applied for loan 4 revealed anything 
which ought to have alerted it to the likelihood that Mr S would struggle to repay the 
loan sustainably. So I didnt think Cashfloat was wrong to make loan 4.
But by the time Mr S applied for loan 5, I thought Cashfloats credit report suggested 
that he was, once again, having problems managing his money. It showed two open 
accounts recorded specifically as short-term loans and at least nine further open 
accounts which I thought Cashfloat should have realised were likely also to be short-
term loans, based on the balances and amounts payable. So given the information that 
it had, I thought Cashfloat should have realised that it was likely that Mr S was having 
significant problems manging his money, and that further borrowing was likely to be 
unsustainable for him. So I didnt think it should have made loan 5.
I didnt think that any of the gaps between loans after Mr S repaid loan 5 was long 
enough for Cashfloat reasonably to have concluded that it was likely that hed got his 
finances onto a more stable footing. So I didnt think Cashfloat should have made any 
of the loans that followed either.
Our adjudicator thought that by the time Mr S applied for loan 7, his overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested that hed become persistently reliant on short-term loans. But 
I thought this point came a bit later  when Mr S applied for loan 8. By that time, it was 
more than 16 months since Mr S had returned to Cashfloat to borrow loan 4. In the 
intervening time, hed only had gaps of a couple of months before asking to borrow 
again from Cashfloat. Loan 6 had been for less than Mr Ss previous two loans. But 
loan 7 marked a step back up, and loan 8 was for more again. So he wasnt making 
any sustained inroads into the amounts he was needing to borrow. And I thought Mr Ss 
pattern of borrowing ought to have alerted Cashfloat to the likelihood that he continued 
to have significant problems managing his money, and that further lending was likely to 
be unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that it 
shouldnt provide further loans to Mr S.In response to the adjudicators view, Cashfloat had argued that if the gap between 
loans 3 and 4 was enough to justify it treating Mr S as a new borrower, the same 
should apply to the gap between loans 8 and 9, which it correctly pointed out was 
longer. But I didnt agree. As Id explained above, there was a gap of more than six 
months before loan 3, as well as the gap after it. It was true that there was a break in 
borrowing of just over five months between Mr S repaying loan 8 and applying for 
loan 9. But as Id already commented, in the 16 months between applying for loan 4 
and loan 8, Mr S had repeatedly come back to Cashfloat to borrow again. The longest 
loan-free gap in that period was less than three months. And against that background, 
I didnt think a gap of five months between Mr S repaying loan 8 and applying for 
loan 9 was long enough for Cashfloat reasonably to have considered that it was likely 
that Mr Ss financial position had improved significantly. And in any event, the credit 
report that Cashfloat obtained when Mr S applied for loan 9 showed that he had at least 
three on-going loans with other short-term lenders.
So taking everything into account, I didnt think Cashfloat should have agreed to make 
loan 3 or loans 5 -13 to Mr S. Whats more, I thought that Mr S lost out because 
Cashfloat agreed to make loans 8-13 because those loans had the effect of unfairly 
prolonging Mr S's indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit intended for 
short-term use over an extended period of time. The period he was borrowing over, 
was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
I thought that Cashfloat should put things right by doing as Ive set out below.
further submissions
Mr S has told us that he has nothing further to add. Cashfloat hasnt commented on my 
provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
I dont think Cashfloat should have agreed to make loan 3, or loans 5-13 inclusive to Mr S. 
So Cashfloat should:
refund all the interest and charges that Mr S paid on loan 3 and on loans 5-13 inclusive;
pay interest at 8% simple per year on each of those amounts from the dates when Mr S 
paid them to the date of settlement;
remove all negative information about loan 3, and about loans 5 to 7 from Mr Ss credit 
file.
Mr Ss borrowing pattern with Cashfloat means any information recorded about loans 8-
13 is adverse. So all entries about those loans should be removed from Mr Ss credit 
file.HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Western Circle Ltd (trading as 
Cashfloat) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman