DRN-2661660
The complaint
Mr A complains that Telefonica UK Limited (O2) acted irresponsibly when it granted him, in
quick succession, six fixed sum loan agreements (loans) for six telephone handsets.
  
What happened
Mr A explained to our service that he was taking successive loans so as to obtain a new
telephone handset which he could then sell on to fund his gambling habit.
Based on what both parties have said and submitted its my understanding that Mr A entered
into the following handset loans with O2:
Date Deposit Credit Monthly Payment No Interest
27/09/18 £29.99 £1,098.00 £30.50 36 £0
07/11/18 £30.00 £1,097.99 £30.50 *1 36 £0
07/11/18 £30.00 £1,097.99 £30.50 *1 36 £0
28/03/19 £30.00 £1,100.40 £30.57 *2 36 £0
31/03/19 £0.00 £1,090.40 £30.29 *3 36 £0
27/05/19 £30.00 £1,100.40 £30.57 *2 36 £0
*1 Last payment (no 36) £30.49
*2 Last payment (no 36) £30.45
*3 Last payment (no 36) £30.25
and the following airtime contracts:
Date Monthly Airtime Payment No Total
27/09/18 £37.00 36 £1,332
07/11/18 £22.00 36 £792
07/11/18 £22.00 36 £792
28/03/19 £21.00 36 £756
31/03/19 £19.00 36 £684
27/05/19 £21.00 36 £756
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
should be upheld in part. In summary she said:
Proportionate checks were carried out in respect of loans one to three and therefore
O2 did nothing wrong in granting these.
Proportionate checks werent carried out in respect of loans four to six and had they
been then, on balance, O2 wouldnt have granted these.
It need do nothing in respect of loans one to three.
It need do nothing in respect of loan four.
It should write off the outstanding balances in respect of loans five to six.
It should report the writing off of loans five to six with credit reference agencies.
It should agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr A in respect of loans one to
four.
It should terminate the air time contracts linked/associated with loans five to six.
Neither party agreed with the investigators view, so the complaint was reviewed by another
investigator. However, this investigator wasnt persuaded to deviate from the view expressed
by the earlier investigator.
Because both parties disagreed with the views expressed by both investigators Mr As
complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in February 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. They have both
provided detailed submissions in support of their respective views which I can 
confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust the parties will not 
take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and 
that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of 
my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set 
out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I also note that Mr A requested that I, as the deciding ombudsman, call him to 
discuss this complaint before issuing a decision. However, in my view, this isnt 
necessary. This is because Im satisfied that I can fairly decide this complaint based 
on what both parties have already said and submitted.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. This includes, amongst other things, having regard to O2s regulatory 
obligations under the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC says that lenders need to carry out checks to ensure any lending it gives is 
affordable and sustainable for the borrower. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check should be borrower-focussed. This means O2 
needed to think about whether Mr A could afford the borrowing, not just how 
statistically likely he was to repay it back.
The thoroughness of the checks O2 carried out needed to be proportionate to the 
situation. In deciding what was proportionate O2 ought to have considered the 
following (but not limited to):
The size and duration of the loan;
The overall cost of the borrowing and the size of the repayments; and
Mr As personal circumstances.
Loans one to three
The first three handset loans were all for three years with a total repayable of 
£3,293.98, or £91.50 a month. The handset airtime contracts, assuming they were 
also to run for three years, required payment from Mr A of £2,916, or £81 a month.To assess whether Mr A could sustainably afford to repay these three loans O2 says 
it reviewed his past payment history with it, completed credit checks and relied on a 
number of answers provided to a number of questions, including what Mr A says was 
his employment status and income.
O2 has provided our service with Mr As payment history with it. Now although this 
history shows some missed or failed payments, it also shows that these were made 
up quickly.
O2 says the credit checks didnt highlight any concerns. Now Ive not seen the credit 
checks O2 says it carried out. This means I cant be sure what information O2 
reviewed in order to assess Mr As current financial position. However, Mr A has 
provided us with a copy of his credit report. So, in the absence of the credit checks 
O2 says it reviewed in order to assess Mr As current financial position, I think its 
reasonable to conclude the information contained in the report Mr A has supplied 
was likely to be available to O2.
This credit report shows that Mr A, as of November 2018, had one default registered 
of £2,845 (July 2018 in respect of a current account overdraft), ten settled loans (with 
nine showing no arrears and one showing historical arrears of two months), three 
open loans (one for £500 with no arrears, one for £10,000 with no arrears and one 
for £585 with no arrears) and two credit card accounts (both with credit limits of £250 
and no arrears).
Ive not seen what questions were asked of Mr A by O2, or what answers Mr A gave 
to these questions. But based on what both parties have said and submitted its my 
understanding that Mr A was receiving a monthly income (after deductions such as 
income tax and national insurance) of approximately £1,700.
I appreciate Mr A might disagree but given what I say above, and the terms of the 
credit being granted (size, duration, overall cost and the size of the repayments), Im 
satisfied that O2 carried out a proportionate assessment of Mr As ability to 
sustainably repay loans one to three and therefore its lending in this respect wasnt 
irresponsible.
However, I would remind O2 of its obligations (when seeking recovery of the sums 
still outstanding in respect of loans one to three) to treat Mr A with forbearance and 
due consideration.
Loans four to six
Now I appreciate that in March 2019 Mr As credit file would have showed little, or no,
change in his financial position and that his payment history might not have 
highlighted any reasons for major concern. But like the investigator I think that 
applying for a fourth loan for a fourth handset within six months of applying for the 
first loan for the first handset, and with Mr As commitment to O2 increasing from 
£172.50 a month to £224.07, could and should have prompted O2 to undertake 
further checks.
Now its not for me to say what further checks O2 should have undertaken, but in my 
view such checks would have highlighted that loan four (and then loans five and six) 
would be unaffordable for Mr A and therefore this lending was irresponsible.Now I can see that O2 places a lot of reliance on the answers it says Mr A provided it 
to questions about affordability. But this doesnt relieve O2 of its various obligations 
under CONC.
O2 was required to carry out appropriate and proportionate checks and for the 
reasons Ive explained I dont think it did. And had it carried out proportionate checks, 
I dont think it ought to have granted Mr A loans four to six. Ive therefore gone onto 
consider what a fair remedy would be in this respect.
As outlined by the investigator a fair remedy in cases such as this is normally for the
consumer to return the goods provided, or for the business to seek recovery of the 
capital sum it advanced but not interest and charges.
However, here we have a position where by Mr A no longer has the handsets to 
return, and there has been no interest or charges levied by the business to be waived 
or written off. It also has to be remembered that although Mr A no longer has the 
handsets, he has had the benefit of the cash he was able to secure on the sale of 
these handsets of, as I understand it, approximately £600.
So, with the above in mind I agree with the investigator that the fairest remedy here is 
for O2 to still be able to hold Mr A liable for the sum outstanding in respect of loan 
four, but not for loans five and six which should be written off. I also find that O2 
should remove any reference to loans five and six recorded with credit reference 
agencies, rather than simply reporting them as being written off.
I can see that the investigator found that O2 should terminate the airtime contracts 
linked to loans five and six. Now its my understanding that O2 has already done this, 
but I would add that although it could be said that these air-time contracts are 
inter-related to the handset loans I cant look at these contracts. This is because 
these contracts dont fall within our jurisdiction as they didnt form part of the credit 
agreements for the handsets.
Finally, I would remind O2 of its obligations (when seeking recovery of the sum still
outstanding in respect of loan four) to treat Mr A with forbearance and due 
consideration.
Mr A asked a number of questions of the investigator after my provisional decision was 
issued, but he didnt provide anything materially new for my consideration.
O2 responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision, but it had sold on loans one to 
four so was not in a position to agree to repayment plans in respect of them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr A has provided nothing materially new for my consideration I see no good 
reason to depart from my provisional findings except to say that O2, having confirmed that it 
has sold on loans one to four, does not now need to agree affordable repayment plans with 
Mr A in respect of them. However, this doesnt prevent Mr A himself coming to repayment 
plans with the organisation who has, or the organisations who have, purchased loans one to 
four from O2.
My final decisionMy final decision is that Telefonica UK Limited must:
Write off the outstanding balances in respect of loans five to six.
If loans five and six has been sold on to a third party, then they should be bought
back so the above write offs can be actioned.
Remove any reference to loans five and six registered with credit reference agencies.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman