DRN-2657644
The complaint
Mr D complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycards decision to default 
his account while he was experiencing financial difficulties. Mr D also complains that 
Barclaycard reported adverse information on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr D had a Barclaycard but, in 2016, his payments stopped. Mr D has explained he was 
experiencing financial difficulties at the time. Barclaycard discussed the account with Mr D at 
various points over the following months and he agreed to complete an income and 
expenditure assessment to see if an affordable payment plan was possible. During this 
period, Barclaycard sent Mr D a notice that it intended to default his account if the arrears 
werent cleared or a plan agreed. 
Mr D sent information on an income and expenditure assessment to Barclaycard in October 
2016. But no income was given on the assessment and Barclaycard says that meant it 
couldnt agree a repayment plan. The credit card was closed a short time later and sold to a 
third party which reported a default on Mr Ds credit file. 
In 2018 Barclaycard carried out a remediation exercise and refunded around £450 of interest 
it had applied to Mr Ds account during the period he experienced financial difficulties. Mr D 
complained but Barclaycard didnt agree that the decision to close and default his credit card 
was wrong or unfair. Barclaycard offered Mr D £50 because of issues responding to his 
complaint. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Barclaycard had dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. 
Mr D asked to appeal and pointed out that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had found 
Barclaycard had broken the rules when dealing with customers going through financial 
difficulties. Mr D asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr D has asked us to look at his case and is concerned that Barclaycards 
decision to close his account was unfair and not in line with the rules. Barclaycard says it 
completed a remediation exercise in 2018 that led to it refunding interest to accounts where 
the customer experienced financial difficulties during the period of Mr Ds case. And 
Barclaycard issued a refund to Mr Ds account, reducing the outstanding balance. 
Ive looked at the FCAs findings following its review and can see Barclaycard went on to 
complete a remediation exercise. Ive taken this into account and have also considered how 
Mr D was treated while in financial difficulties. Whilst I note the FCA findings, I havent found 
Mr D was treated unfairly when Barclaycard took the decision to close his account. 
Mr D spoke with Barclaycard in the six month period before it closed his account. Mr D  
explained he was having difficulties paying. I can see Mr D told Barclaycard he had started a 
new job and, later, that he was up to date with priority bills but behind with credit 
commitments. Barclaycard asked Mr D to complete an income and expenditure assessment 
and put his account on hold to give him some breathing space. Barclaycards letters to Mr D 
also asked him to get in touch and gave details of organisations that could provide 
independent advice. Overall, I think Barclaycard did provide a fair level of support in Mr Ds 
case. 
Mr D partially completed an income and expenditure assessment and returned it to 
Barclaycard in October 2016. At this point, no payments had been made for around six 
months so the level of arrears had built and the account balance was over the agreed credit 
limit. The income and expenditure didnt provide details of Mr Ds earnings. That meant 
Barclaycard couldnt verify whether Mr D could afford to enter into a payment plan to reduce 
his outstanding balance. I wouldnt expect Barclaycard to approve a payment plan without 
evidence to support it was affordable for Mr D. 
I understand Barclaycard didnt follow this up with another request for a completed income 
and expenditure assessment. But, as Ive said above, at this stage no payments had been 
received for around six months and the account balance was over the agreed credit limit. As 
insufficient information was provided to show Mr D could afford a payment plan, I think 
Barclaycards decision to close his account was reasonable. I havent found Barclaycard 
treated Mr D unfairly. 
As the account closed, a default was reported on Mr Ds credit file. The debt was 
subsequently sold to a third party business which took over responsibility for reporting the 
default. Barclaycard has confirmed it didnt report adverse information on Mr Ds credit file 
after the debt was sold. Ive looked at Barclaycards terms and can see it was allowed to sell 
Mr Ds account to a third party. 
I appreciate Barclaycard completed a remediation exercise that led to a refund of interest. 
But, I havent found evidence that shows Barclaycard treated Mr D unfairly in the 
circumstances of his case. As Ive said above, I think the decision to close the account 
reflected the arrears and absence of information showing Barclaycard could approve an 
affordable payment plan. 
Barclaycard offered Mr D £50 because of issues responding to his complaint. Im satisfied 
Barclaycard has dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly, so Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman