DRN-4268819
The complaint
Mr W complains that the settlement payment Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) 
offered him following the total loss of his vehicle was unfair, under his motor insurance 
policy.  
What happened
Mr Ws car was damaged in a collision. He made a claim to Admiral. It determined his car 
was a total loss and offered him £8,095 in settlement of his claim. Mr W says this is 
significantly below its true value. He says this type of vehicle has a community following that 
hes part of. He follows the buying and selling of these vehicles closely. Mr W says his 
vehicle was well looked after and is worth much more than Admiral offered. 
Mr W says hes been unable to source a replacement vehicle to the same standard and 
specification for the settlement payment offered. This has meant borrowing his parents car 
when its available and his children have missed out on activities. Mr W says this has been a 
stressful experience. 
In its complaint response Admiral says it uses industry recognised trade guides to value 
vehicles. In this case it wasnt able to obtain valuations from the trade guides, so it appointed 
an independent assessor to value Mr Ws vehicle. It says its settlement offer is fair based on 
this assessment. 
Mr W disagreed and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld his 
complaint. He obtained trade guide valuations that gave an average value of £9,534. He 
thought Admiral should settle Mr Ws claim based on this amount. He says it should also pay 
8% simple interest on the difference between this and its lower offer.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. Admiral didnt 
confirm if it accepted our investigators findings. 
As an agreement wasnt reached it has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Im not adding to the outcome our 
investigator thought was reasonable. I realise this will come as a disappointment. But I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I understand that Mr W wants the best offer he can get following the total loss of his vehicle. 
Having read his policy terms, the policy provides the market value in the case of a total loss. 
This is defined in Mr Ws policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term 
market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides.
We dont provide valuations for vehicles but rather we look to see whether the insurers offer 
is reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations 
from the motor trade guides. 
These guides are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be
persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales 
figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take all other available 
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr W says he cant find similar cars advertised at the price Admiral offered him. Ive looked 
at the adverts he provided showing cars for sale. These vary in price, age, and mileage. The 
prices range from £10,500 up to £14,490. These adverts are taken from different 
publications including a social media site, a website advertising accident damaged vehicles 
for sale, and other online marketplaces. 
Although Ive looked at this information, we dont generally find advertisements particularly 
persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason 
that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices.
Our investigator didnt think Admirals offer was fair as he was able to obtain two trade guide 
valuations that gave a higher average valuation. I can see that he used the correct year, 
make, and model for Mr Ws car along with the correct mileage when obtaining these 
valuations. The values obtained were £7,975 and £11,092. The average of these being 
£9,534.
Although we dont generally consider advertised for sale prices to be particularly persuasive, 
I can see our investigator did obtain some examples of similar vehicles for sale. The adverts 
varied from £7,995 up to £12,795. Although the higher of these appears out of line with the 
other advertised selling prices. And another with an advertised price of £11,500 is for a 
vehicle that is two years younger with less mileage than Mr Ws vehicle. 
Valuing second-hand vehicles isnt an exact science so Id expect there to be a range of 
values where different trade guides are used. Having considered the trade guide valuations, 
along with the for-sale advertisements Mr W provided, and those our investigator obtained, I 
think taking the average of the two trade guide valuations is the fairest way to value Mr Ws 
vehicle. The advertisements largely support this valuation. So, I agree with our investigator 
that Admiral should pay Mr W £9,534 in total. Plus 8% simple interest on the difference 
between this and Admirals lower valuation. 
Ive thought about Mr Ws comments that he wasnt offered a courtesy car during any of this. 
And that hes been inconvenienced and distressed as he couldnt buy a replacement car. I 
cant see that his policy provides for a courtesy car in the event of a total loss decision. 
Although Admirals settlement offer was, I think, lower than it shouldve been - Mr W did 
have the option to buy a replacement car using Admirals settlement offer. This wouldve 
mitigated the issues he describes with not having transport for his family.
In summary, I dont think Admiral treated Mr W fairly in the settlement amount it offered him. 
It should now pay him £9,534 in total plus 8% simple interest on the difference between this 
amount and its offer. It should calculate interest from the date its offer was first made until 
payment is provided.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should:
pay Mr W £9,534 in total to settle his claim, plus 8% simple interest on the difference 
between this amount and its original offer, from the date of its offer until the payment 
is made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman