DRN-3496911
The complaint
Mr T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank, has rejected the 
claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar system (including solar panels and battery) he says was misrepresented to him by the 
supplier (which Ill call S).
Mr T is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In December 2015, Mr T purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr T partly financed the purchase through his Tesco credit card.
In April 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ts behalf under section 75 of the Act to Tesco. 
The CMC said that S had made a number of representations about the system that had 
turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr T to enter 
into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding.
The combined benefits from the Feed-in Tariff and energy savings would cover the 
monthly repayments.
Tesco declined the claim and the CMC made a complaint about this. Tesco issued a final 
response saying that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr T. But it 
offered £25.00 due to some issues with the sales documents. I assume those issues were  
in relation to an invoice that appeared to be from the installation company, which was related 
to S and couldve caused some confusion.
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
Mr T was told the system would be self-funding within 10 years, although it didnt 
mention this specific bit of testimony until after our investigator issued her 
assessment. 
Mr Ts complaint should not be treated differently due to him paying for the system 
using a credit card rather than a loan. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr T part-paid for the system with his credit card, Tesco agrees that section 75 applies to 
this transaction. This means that Mr T could claim against Tesco, the creditor, for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr T and 
S are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Tesco. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Tesco. These 
include the quote, performance estimate and credit card statement.
The quote shows the price of the system is £10,459.00 and the estimated performance is 
3,184 kWh per year. The performance estimate also shows the system is expected to 
generate 3,184 kWh per year. 
None of the documents set out the estimated financial benefits of the system in terms of FIT 
payments or savings on energy bills. 
Balance of knowledge in the sale
In this case I think the salesperson wouldve had knowledge of the solar system he was 
selling. Mr T wouldve relied on the salesperson to explain the system, its costs, and its 
benefits. 
Mr T chose to pay for the system through savings and his credit card. He wouldve had 
knowledge of what savings he had and how much of that he was comfortable putting 
towards the purchase. 
Mr T would also have had knowledge of his credit card (or could easily find this out)  such 
as how much he owed, the credit limit, the interest rate and how much the minimum 
payments would be. I would not expect a salesperson to have any of that information unless 
a consumer gave it to them (which seems highly unlikely), nor would I expect them to ask for 
it. 
This differs to where a consumer buys a system using a loan, since the salesperson is 
selling them the loan as well as the system. In that situation, the salesperson has knowledge of the loan and the consumer relies on the salesperson to explain the loan to them. As I 
have to make a decision based on the individual circumstances in this case, I will take into 
account the specific level of knowledge that I think Mr T had at the time of sale and what I 
think he could reasonably rely on the salesperson to tell him about.
Self-funding
Mr T says he was told the system would be self-funding since it would pay for itself through 
the income and savings it would generate, which would cover the monthly repayments. I 
assume monthly repayments means the credit card repayments relating to the amount 
Mr T paid towards the purchase using his credit card. 
Im mindful that, other than the minimum repayment, which itself is a percentage of the 
monthly statement amount, credit card repayments fluctuate at the discretion of the 
customer. That is, subject to making the minimum monthly repayment, the customer can pay 
back as much or as little as they want each month.
The quote clearly sets out the price of the system and the amount of electricity it would 
generate. That appears to be the limit of the information provided in the sales documents (or 
at least in the ones provided for me to consider). So, it appears that Mr T was relying solely 
on what he was told by the salesperson in relation to the financial benefits of the system (in 
terms of income and energy savings). 
I think it is plausible that the salesperson may have explained the estimated financial 
benefits of the system. And that he may have described the system as self-funding, given 
that:
FIT payments would be paid for 20 years
The expected lifespan of the system was 25 years, throughout which time energy 
savings would be possible. 
Potential energy savings would be enhanced by the presence of the battery.
FIT unit rates increase annually in line with inflation (Retail Price Index). 
The price of energy is likely to increase, so therefore the potential annual energy 
savings would increase over time. 
The basic price of the system (excluding credit card interest) was fixed at the time of 
sale and would not change.
However, if the salesperson did say the system would be self-funding, I dont think that was 
a misrepresentation. Thinking about FIT payments and energy savings over the life of the 
system, I think any reasonable estimate of the benefits would show that these would exceed 
the basic price that Mr T paid (and the total he paid including credit card interest) by some 
way. 
Ive also considered the actual financial benefit based on the evidence provided. The system 
has generated on average less electricity than expected, but still within a reasonable margin 
of error. Because of this, the FIT payments have been less than wouldve been expected. As 
have the savings, although how Mr T uses electricity in his home is likely to have a big 
impact on this. I can see he has used much more electricity in some years since the sale 
than he did before, which suggests a significant change in usage, rather than an issue 
relating to the system. Given the presence of the battery, it seems likely that Mr T will still 
have made significant savings relative to how much he wouldve paid for electricity if he 
didnt have the system. But, despite this apparently lower than expected benefit, I still think 
the system will be self-funding within its lifetime. Given the balance of knowledge at the time of sale, I dont think that the salesperson 
wouldve been in a position to predict the total cost of the system. To do so he would need 
full knowledge of Mr Ts credit card and how Mr T intended to pay it off. I dont think it is 
plausible that the salesperson wouldve asked for that information or that hed have been 
provided it. 
And I dont think it wouldve been reasonable to expect a salesperson (an expert in solar 
systems rather than credit cards) to work out the total cost to Mr T  even if they did have 
that information. So, I think its unlikely and actually implausible that the salesperson 
wouldve said that the financial benefits of the system would cover Mr Ts monthly credit card 
repayments. Not least because the salesperson would have no way of knowing what they 
would be. So, on the balance of probabilities, I dont think the salesperson made a 
representation that the benefits would cover the monthly repayments. 
The CMC has more recently said that Mr Ts allegation was always that he was told that the 
system would be self-funding within ten years. But that is not what has been said throughout 
the complaint. Mr Ts specific and consistent allegation prior to that was that he was told the 
system would be self-funding and the benefits would cover his monthly repayments. So, Im 
not persuaded that Mr T was told the system would be self-funding within ten years. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr T 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. While I think that Mr T was told the system would be self-funding, I do not think 
that was a misrepresentation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman