DRN-3194335
The complaint
Mrs D says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to her
irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mrs D took out a 24-month instalment loan for £3,000 from ELL on 5 March 2019. The
monthly repayment was £212.97 and the total repayable was £5,111.28. I understand there
is an outstanding balance.
Miss D says ELL didnt carry out proper affordability checks or consider her overall
indebtedness. And this loan worsened her already poor financial situation.
Our investigator concluded ELL should not have given Mrs D the loan as it had
information to suggest it was unlikely it would be sustainably affordable for Mrs D.
ELL disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, but my findings varied so I issued a provisional decision (an 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision). I asked both parties to submit any 
comments or new evidence by 2 December 2021.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mrs D to understand her disposable income
before it approved the loan. It asked for her monthly income and used national averages to
calculate her living costs. It checked Mrs Ds credit file to understand her existing monthly
credit commitments and credit history. It used copies of Mrs Ds recent bank statements to
verify her declared income and some of her monthly costs. It asked about the purpose of the
loan which was debt consolidation and a holiday. From these checks combined ELL
concluded that Mrs D had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan.
I think the checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this case, but I am not
persuaded ELL reacted appropriately to the information it gathered to make its lending
decision. Ill explain why.
From the credit checks it carried out ELL knew Mrs D had monthly credit commitments of
£1238.23. This was a very significant percentage of her £2051.45 income. As the
purpose of the loan was, in part, to repay some of her debts this would reduce. But it seems
Mrs D would still need to spend at least 45% of her income every month to meet her
contractual credit commitments. This assumes she was clearing her mail order debts, in
addition to her existing ELL loan, her overdraft and monies owing to a debt recovery
company. I note the final response letter includes the mail order debts in the list of accounts
Mrs D was settling, but the Go Live Audit document doesnt. However this inconsistency
doesnt impact my finding as the monthly mail order repayments were a relatively small
percentage of Mrs Ds overall credit commitments.
From this I think ELL ought to have realised there was a high risk it was unlikely the new
loan repayments would be sustainable for Mrs D over a two-year period and there was a risk
she would need to borrow to repay or suffer other financial harm. And to meet its obligations
this was what it needed to check, not just the pounds and pence affordability.
In addition if Mrs D was using some of the loan to clear her mail order debt, its reasonable
to assume these debts were likely on lower interest rates. Taking this loan was increasing
Mrs Ds overall indebtedness and prolonging her use of high-cost credit. So I dont think ELL
can reasonably argue that giving the loan to Mrs D wasnt most likely having some kind of
adverse impact on her financial situation.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give the loan to Mrs D.
I havent found any evidence that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
I then set out what ELL would need to do to put things right if I upheld the complaint.
Mrs D responded before the deadline agreeing with the outcome of the provisional decision. 
ELL did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any new information or evidence I have no reason to change the 
findings or conclusion set out in my provisional decision. 
It follows I find ELL was wrong to give the loan to Mrs D.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mrs D to repay the capital that she borrowed because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mrs D
made as payments towards the capital.
As reworking Mrs Ds loan account will result in her having effectively made
payments above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ds credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mrs D a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Ds complaint.  Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman