DRN-4294973
The complaint
Mr J complains that a van acquired with finance from Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr J was supplied with a brand new van and entered into a hire agreement with 
MBFS.
Mr J experienced issues with a rattling noise and faults with the infotainment system. In May 
2021 the supplying dealer repaired the rattling noise but couldnt find any faults with the 
infotainment system.
Mr J says the rattling noise was only temporarily resolved and he continued to experience 
faults with the infotainment system. Then in January 2022 he experienced a battery 
malfunction. The car was returned to the supplying dealer who replaced the battery. 
After the van was returned to Mr J he noticed an electrical burning smell. The rattling noise 
was still present, and the radio wouldnt work at all.
Mr J complained to MBFS and asked to reject the van. MBFS didnt uphold the complaint. It 
said there wasnt enough evidence to show that there were grounds to reject the van. It 
offered Mr J £150 as a gesture of goodwill and said it would arrange an independent 
inspection.
Mr J brought his complaint to this service. 
An independent inspection report was carried out in June 2023. The inspection identified 
faults with the infotainment system, a rattling in the rear load compartment and a fault with 
the rear seat locking mechanism. The report concluded that the faults would not have been 
present at the point of supply but that they had developed during the warranty period and 
had been subject to an unsuccessful repair attempt by the dealership.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he was persuaded that the van had faults at 
the point of supply and had been subject to a failed repair. The investigator said that MBFS 
should end the hire agreement.
MBFS didnt accept the investigators view so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Vehicles are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors 
such as the age and mileage of the vehicle and the price paid. The legislation says that the 
quality of the goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness 
for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The van supplied to Mr J was brand new. So, Id expect it to be of a very high standard and 
to remain free from faults for a reasonable period of time.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs within the first 6 months of the 
point of supply, its assumed that the fault was present at the point of supply and generally its 
up to the business to put things right. The business sis allowed one opportunity to repair the 
fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the vehicle.
After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the 
vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed all of the available evidence about the issues which Mr J experienced with the 
van. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there a fault with the van. I say this because 
the inspection report states that there are faults with the infotainment system, the rear seat 
locking mechanism and the rear panel inner trims.
Ive gone on to consider whether the van was of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Mr J reported issues with the infotainment system and the panel trims rattling within a very 
short time of getting the van. The supplying dealer couldnt find a fault with the infotainment 
system, but it did attempt repairs to the panel trims.
Mr J has told this service that the rattling noise only stopped temporarily. Hes also said that 
he continued to experience issues with the infotainment system not working properly.
Ive read and considered the inspection report. This identifies faults with the panel trims and 
infotainment system as well as other things. These are exactly the same faults that Mr J 
reported to the dealership within the first 6 months of the point of supply. The dealership 
attempted to repair the rattling noise caused by the panel trims, but the inspection report 
shows that these repairs werent successful because the fault still exists.
Im also persuaded that there was a fault with the infotainment system within the first 6 
months of supply, but the dealership failed to diagnose it.
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that the repairs were unsuccessful. The dealership 
has had a reasonable opportunity to repair the fault so the appropriate remedy under the 
legislation is to allow Mr J to reject the van.
Putting things right
Ive already explained why I dont think the van was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied and why Mr J should be allowed to reject it.
Mr J has been able to use the van normally despite the faults. I think its fair that he pays for 
this usage, so I wont be asking MBFS to refund any hire payments.
 I understand that the rattling noise and the faulty infotainment system has caused Mr J 
frustration. MBFS has already offered £150 compensation in recognition of this. I think this is 
a fair and reasonable amount, so I wont be asking MBFS to pay anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes Benz Financial Services Limited 
must:
End the agreement with nothing further ton pay
Arrange for the van to be collected at no cost to Mr J
Pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience (if not already paid)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman