DRN-2606130
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a single
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January. This what I said:
In 2002 Mr P took out a loan and the society recommended he also take out PPI to protect 
his repayments.
Mr P says he had some sick pay at the time and didnt need the PPI. More recently hes 
told us he had a pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) which would have affected his 
ability to claim if hed been off work because of this condition. Mr P thinks the society was 
wrong when it sold him the policy.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld because he didnt think Nationwide 
drew the exclusions for PEMCs to Mr Ps attention when he bought the PPI.
Nationwide disagreed with this, and Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in reaching my provisional conclusions on Mr Ps case
Im not currently intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint, and Ive set out below my reasons for 
this.
Mr Ps original complaint was that he didnt realise the PPI was optional when he took 
out the loan  and that if hed known this at the time he wouldnt have bought it. Ive 
looked at the paper and also the loan offer that he signed at the time.
The application form has yes and no boxes that can be ticked to either accept or 
decline PPI. Its ticked yes. The loan agreement shows the details of the PPI in a 
column headed optional credit insurance.
Mr P signed both the application form and the loan agreement. I cant see anything 
that suggests that Mr P had to have the PPI in order to get the loan.
Taking everything into account I think Nationwide gave Mr P enough information for him 
to know the PPI was optional.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P. So it didnt have to check it was 
suitable for him given his particular circumstances. But it did have to give him enough 
clear information that wasnt misleading for him to decide if the PPI suited him.
I dont know if Nationwide did that. So Ive had to think about whether  if Mr P had all 
the relevant information  hed most likely to have decided to buy the PPI.
Mr Ps policy doesnt provide cover for work absences if they are the result of a pre-
existing condition.
Mr P has recently told us he suffers from migraines and takes medication for these when 
necessary. He didnt mention this in the information he initially sent either to us or to 
Nationwide  so Nationwide asked for more evidence to support what Mr P has said. That 
seems fair to me, and weve asked Mr P for this. Mr P says he cant remember whether 
hed seen a doctor about this in the year before he bought the PPI. Nor has he told us 
when the migraines were first diagnosed by his GP (or any other medical professional). 
He hasnt said hes ever taken time off work because of his condition.
Ive thought carefully about this point, but from what Mr P has told us it doesnt appear 
his illness is one that means he has to take any time off work, or that it was an important 
factor in his decision to buy the PPI. So even if Nationwide didnt bring this point to his 
attention, I dont think this would have affected his decision to buy the PPI. Thats 
especially so given the policy would have covered him for any extended illness or 
accident that meant he couldnt work.
Other than this, from what Ive seen,
-Mr P was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. It doesnt appear that Mr P would have been affected by any of the 
significant limitations or exclusions of the cover (other than those relating to pre-
existing medical conditions which Ive commented on above).
-The loan agreement shows the cost of the PPI, the amount of interest that would 
be added, the total Mr P would repay for the PPI and how much it cost each 
month. Im satisfied the costs were set out clearly for Mr P to see.
-Mr P says he would have received some sick pay if he couldnt work. But this policy 
would potentially have paid his repayments for the whole length of the loan (24 
months). It also could have paid for 12 months if he was made redundant. And the 
policy would have paid out on top of his sick pay, so he wouldnt have had to use this 
or possibly his wifes income to keep up with the repayments. Given this, I think he 
would have had some use for the policy.
-If the loan had been repaid early Mr P would have been given a pro-rata refund, so 
he wouldnt have lost out because of this
-
My provisional decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
Neither party has provided any new evidence or comments I need to take into account 
before deciding this complaint. So I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman