DRN-4246430
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked a genuine transaction, and they 
wouldnt allow the payment to leave his account. 
What happened
Mr M says that he tried to pay his part for a group holiday arranged by a family friend 
overseas. He says he was trying to transfer money into his third party account, and to the 
travel agency, but Nationwide blocked the transfer as they suspected it was fraudulent. He 
says he had numerous lengthy calls with them where he assured Nationwide it wasnt a 
fraudulent transaction, but this didnt satisfy Nationwide and they asked to see several 
documents which Mr M didnt have, and he was unable to produce. Mr M has since 
cancelled the transfer. Mr M made a complaint to Nationwide. 
Nationwide did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said their fraud team have asked for 
evidence to show this is a payment for a holiday, which is a reasonable request. They said 
they cannot rule out this company is being cloned, nor can they easily determine if it is a 
genuine company (regulated correctly in its country of origin). Nationwide said theyve also 
recently seen his third party account provider being used as part of different types of scams 
similar to his transaction. Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said the account terms and conditions 
explain Nationwide can refuse to make a payment Mr M has instructed if they reasonably 
suspect the payment is a scam payment. Our investigator said Nationwide asked for 
information regarding the holiday, such as invoices, copies of insurance documentation and 
messages between friends arranging the holiday. He said its reasonable for Nationwide to 
request this evidence to satisfy themselves the transaction is safe, and its also reasonable 
to expect Mr M would be able to provide this evidence if planning a holiday. He said they 
have blocked Mr Ms online banking access, but he is still able to use his card for everyday 
spending. Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr M that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures in order for a business to be satisfied they are meeting their 
regulatory requirements, such as blocking transactions or how they remove blocks. It is also 
not within this services remit to tell a business what information they should ask for from a 
customer to ensure that they are not falling victim to a scam. It would be the role of the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Nationwide to 
make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent them from being victims of fraud and scams. Sometimes they identify and 
block legitimate payments due to security concerns. This can cause distress and 
inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
Although Mr M has said that Nationwide have blocked a transfer to his own third party 
account elsewhere, I would expect Nationwide to have controls in place which would check 
every single payment, regardless of who it is being sent to as they need to ensure their 
members arent being coerced to transfer money as part of a scam.
So I dont find it unreasonable for Nationwide to have security controls in place to manage 
their obligations and to fulfil their duties to their customers to ensure each payment made is 
genuinely made by their customers themselves and they are not being coerced or scammed 
into making payments. And Im satisfied they have acted in line with their terms and 
conditions here in trying to protect Mr Ms account. I know he feels the block shouldnt be 
placed on his account as no money was lost to fraud, however, it would be expected that 
Nationwide would take action prior to any money being lost from suspected fraud/scams as 
opposed to doing nothing and trying to get the money back for Mr M if he fell victim to a 
scam, which they mightnt be able to do for him once the money had left his account.
Ive considered what Mr M has said not being able to provide all of the evidence that 
Nationwide wanted him to provide, and he wasnt able to get access to his internet banking. I 
asked Nationwide about this. They told me that they did actually have a chat with Mr M 
about this in early July, and they have provided me the system note. My understanding is 
that after the chat Nationwide had with Mr M, they removed the blocks, so Mr M should be 
aware of this now, and he should be able to access his online banking. If he still isnt able to 
do this despite this conversation he had with Nationwide in July, then he may wish to speak 
to Nationwide about this. 
As Nationwide had concerns prior to this July call that Mr M was still being a victim of a 
scam, Im unable to say they should have not placed the block on his account in those 
circumstances. So while Im pleased that it appears Mr M has access to his online banking 
and no blocks are on his account now, it follows I dont require Nationwide to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman