DRN-3135958
The complaint
A company, Ill refer to as M, complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined 
a claim for theft made on its Tradesman Insurance policy.
Mr P, the director of M, brings the complaint on Ms behalf.  
What happened
M had a commercial Tradesman policy underwritten by UKI, which included cover for its 
portable tools and business equipment. In July 2021 Ms van was broken into while parked 
overnight in a hotel car park. The thieves gained entry by force and took all of the tools that 
had been stored inside. The hotels night porter saw the theft happening on CCTV and tried 
to intervene, but the thieves outnumbered him. The assailants then got away by attempting 
to run over the staff member and crashing through the exit barrier.
UKI declined the claim, saying the car park wasnt a guarded security park, as required by 
the terms of the policy. Mr P raised a complaint on behalf of M, stressing that the car park 
had CCTV, which was monitored 24 hours a day by staff, along with an exit barrier that 
required a code. He also questioned where in the policy terms it specified a security guard 
needed to be stationed within the car park itself. UKI maintained its position, saying the claim 
wasnt covered because the van wasnt kept in a guarded security park overnight. Unhappy 
with the response, M referred the complaint to our service for review.
An investigator looked at everything and thought the complaint should be upheld. In his view 
the claim had been unfairly declined because the actions of the hotel staff member had 
demonstrated a security guard wouldnt have made any difference (the theft would still have 
happened). He also thought Mr P had reasonably interpreted the security measures at the 
hotel to mean the van and tools were guarded. UKI didnt accept the investigators opinion 
and asked for an Ombudsman to review things. So the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision on the matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Ms complaint  and for much the same reasons as given by 
the investigator.
Section 4 of Ms Tradesman policy provides cover for the repair or reinstatement of portable 
tools and business equipment. The exclusion UKI have relied on says that damage (which 
includes loss) due to theft from an unattended vehicle wont be covered unless it is, both, 
securely locked at all points of access, and in a securely locked building or guarded 
security park overnight. The thieves had to gain entry by force  so Im satisfied the van was 
securely locked. But it wasnt parked in a locked building at the time of the theft, so I need to 
decide whether the hotels car park reasonably satisfied the requirement for the van to be 
kept in a guarded security park. 
That term/phrase isnt otherwise defined in the policy document  so the ordinary meanings 
of those words apply. If something is guarded it is kept safe; watched over and protected; 
defended. I appreciate UKI intended that term to mean cover would only be in place if a 
security guard was physically in the car park patrolling or standing guard  but the insurer 
hasnt stipulated that requirement anywhere in the policy wording. Mr P has said he 
considered the monitored CCTV and security barrier meant the car park was guarded and 
watched over  and I agree thats a fair and reasonable interpretation of the requirement. So 
I find that M did comply with the term.
In any event, I consider its clear from what happened that having a designated security 
guard present in the car park at the time wouldnt have likely made a difference here. The 
night porter did effectively act as one, when he attempted to intervene and prevent the theft 
(despite that being against the hotels policy). But he was threatened by five men  who then 
also tried to run him down and proceeded to crash through a closed barrier. Given how 
determined these thieves were, I dont find it likely that having a security guard in the car 
park would have deterred them.  
Overall, I find that M reasonably complied with the term in the policy, and that UKI unfairly 
declined the claim. Therefore the insurer should now consider the claim, and settle it, in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions  setting aside the unattended theft exclusion it 
relied on previously. UKI should add 8% simple interest yearly onto any settlement amount, 
to compensate M for the time its been without those funds. That interest should be 
calculated from the date the claim was made until the date settlement is paid to M. 
Mr P has described the impact that having the claim declined had. He told us he was one 
day into a seven-month contract when the theft occurred  and had UKI told him the claim 
would be covered hed have bought replacement tools locally on his credit card. Mr P also 
told us he wouldnt have likely been charged any interest on that amount as, allowing some 
time for the claim to be settled, his credit card has 56 days interest free on purchases. 
Instead, thinking the claim wasnt covered and so not wanting to risk putting a large expense 
on his credit card, Mr P had to make a six hour round trip (back home) to borrow spare tools 
from other people. Hes described how stressful that experience was, and how worrying it 
was to think the claim might not be covered. Mr P also said it cost M a full tank of fuel for the 
van, around £110, for the journey he wouldnt have otherwise had to make. 
I was sorry to hear about the stressful time the unfair decline caused Mr P personally. 
However, as M is the policyholder, I can only compensate that entity for any impact caused 
by the mistake. I cant make an award for the individual effects on those that work for M. 
Thankfully Mr P was able to minimise the disruption to M and continue with the job. A few 
hours on one day were lost, but that time was made up and the contract was able to be 
fulfilled. Therefore Im not making an award to M for any inconvenience caused. But the fuel cost involved in the round trip is a loss to M that I consider wouldnt have 
occurred had Mr P not been told the claim wasnt going to be covered. £110 is roughly what 
Id expect a full tank of petrol for a vehicle of that type, travelling that distance, to cost  and I 
agree that about a full tank would have been needed for the journey. Therefore Im directly 
UKI to cover that cost (£110) as well, and to add 8% simple interest yearly to that amount to 
reflect the time M has been without those funds (calculating that interest from the date the 
claim was made until the date of settlement). I dont require M to evidence that cost, as too 
much time has passed now to expect it to produce a receipt  and I find Mr Ps testimony 
around the losses to be plausible and persuasive. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms complaint about U K Insurance Limited, and direct the 
insurer to:
Settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
Refund the £110 that M spent on fuel.
Add 8% simple interest yearly to both of the above amounts, calculated from the date 
the claim was made until the date settlement is paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman