DRN-3032250
The complaint
 Mrs T complained because Sainsburys Bank Plc registered inaccurate adverse information 
on her credit file. A credit card was fraudulently opened in her name. Sainsburys agreed it 
had been a fraud against Mrs T and removed the adverse credit information  but then 
added it back twice more.
 
What happened
 From 2016 onwards, Mrs T suffered a number of fraudulent applications in her name, 
including a Sainsburys credit card. When she found out, she notified Sainsburys. It 
investigated and on 7 September 2017 confirmed that shed been the victim of application 
fraud. The letter confirmed that Sainsburys had sent a request to the credit reference 
agencies to remove any adverse information registered against her name. This could take 
30 days to show on her credit file.
In 2019, Mrs T wanted to re-mortgage. She had problems finding a re-mortgage herself, 
which she couldnt understand. So she contacted a mortgage broker, who approached 
multiple mortgage providers, all of which turned her down. The second broker said that these 
rejections further lowered Mrs Ts credit score.
Mrs T went to a second broker, to whom she paid £1,000. That broker checked Mrs Ts 
credit file, and saw that the reason was that Sainsburys had registered a default against her. 
Mrs T gave the broker Sainsburys September 2017 letter, saying there had been a fraud 
against her and all adverse information would be removed. She complained to Sainsburys.
Sainsburys replied that it had correctly removed the adverse information in 2017. But it had 
then done a system update in June 2018, which had reported the default again. It promised 
Mrs T a letter confirming the second default had been removed  but failed to send it. In 
January 2020, Sainsburys replied to Mrs Ts complaint, saying it had now sent her the letter 
confirming the second default had been removed. It offered Mrs T £250 compensation, of 
which £50 was for the time Sainsburys had taken to reply to her complaint. 
Mrs T wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. And shortly after that, Mrs T saw that 
her credit score had dropped from Excellent to Poor. She saw that Sainsburys had added 
the default marker to Mrs Ts credit file a third time. Sainsburys said it had sent instructions 
to the credit reference agency to remove the marker, and offered Mrs T £75 for the new 
mistake.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ts complaint. He thought Sainsburys should pay Mrs T a total 
of £400 compensation for the stress and inconvenience, and should also pay her £1,000 for 
the money shed had to pay the broker.
Sainsburys didnt agree. It said there wasnt enough evidence to show Mrs T wouldnt have 
incurred some costs anyway with her re-mortgage. 
Mrs T spoke to our investigator and explained how stressful the whole situation had been. 
She said it had gone on for so long. When she couldnt get a re-mortgage herself, shed 
contacted the two different brokers in desperation because she needed to re-mortgage by 
December 2019. Shed done everything she could when shed found out about the fraud, 
including contacting the police, and shed had to go back over it when the marker had been 
recorded again by Sainsburys. It had caused family problems and a huge amount of stress. 
Years later she was still having to check her credit report, which she now did every morning. 
Shes also set up a credit  monitoring service.
Mrs T also told our investigator that Sainsburys had put the marker against her name four or 
five times. Ive seen records showing that it recorded a marker three times  the original one, 
again in June 2018, and at some point prior to Mrs T finding out about the third marker in 
April 2021. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. This included listening to the detailed recorded phone 
conversation between Mrs T and the investigator.
I said that I was very sorry to hear about the stress which Mrs T has suffered, over such a 
long period, as a result of Sainsburys repeated errors. Fraud is always stressful and 
upsetting, but in this instance the main cause of Mrs Ts distress was the way Sainsburys 
repeatedly failed to sort out the markers. 
It was clear that this had a significant impact on Mrs T. She had explained that shed 
intended to apply for the re-mortgage herself, and she looked online without success, so she 
approached the broker out of desperation.  Mrs T told us that she needed to re-mortgage by 
December 2019, or shed face penalties. Shed started the process in spring, so it was 
reasonable for her to expect shed achieve this  but she then had the rejections, which were 
completely unexpected, and which jeopardised this deadline. The first broker couldnt help 
her, and didnt charge, but Mrs T then had to go to the second one, despite the £1,000 fee.  
It was getting nearer to her deadline and its understandable that Mrs T would have been 
very worried. I also bore in mind that Mrs T told us shed never been in this type of situation 
before and had never had problems with credit, and didnt even know what a credit score 
was. So it was all a really stressful and worrying new experience. When the second broker 
found out that the reason for the problem was Sainsburys default, Mrs T then had to 
complain again to Sainsburys. She told us that she spent much of two full weeks on the 
phone to customer services, often in tears, and it caused her family problems and distress. 
Sainsburys acknowledged that it didnt send Mrs T the promised letter confirming it had 
removed the second default marker, and didnt reply promptly to her complaint. But the 
problem happened again.
When Mrs T found out that Sainsburys had recorded the marker a third time, this added 
further stress. I could see that our investigator asked Sainsburys why the issue was 
occurring, and what steps it had taken to ensure that the problem doesnt continue in future. 
It replied that it had deleted the file to ensure it doesnt happen again. But I could understand 
that when the incorrect information was re-reported twice, Mrs T would no longer have any 
confidence that Sainsburys wouldnt report it again. She told our investigator that it had 
been one of the worst experiences of her life.
When the case was passed to me, I sent Sainsburys a copy of the brokers letter which set 
out what had happened, demonstrating that the original failure to obtain a mortgage was the result of the Sainsburys default marker. Sainsburys accepted the information, and agreed 
liability for the cost. But it refused to increase the compensation, saying that the third wrong 
marker was the fault of the credit reference agency, which hadnt carried out the instructions 
Sainsburys had sent. I said that I wasnt persuaded by this argument. I couldnt know for 
certain whether the credit reference agency was at fault for the third marker. But in any 
event, even if the credit reference agency had made a mistake, by this point the impact on 
Mrs T was severe enough that any further delay was bound to cause her additional upset. 
And the cause of the overall situation was Sainsburys original mistake, and the further 
problem stems from the mistake to which Sainsburys has admitted. So even if the third 
marker problem wasnt solely Sainsburys fault, the situation between Sainsburys and the 
credit reference agency still delayed the fair resolution further.
I recognised that the third default marker had less impact in terms of financial consequences 
than the second one which resulted in the re-mortgage problems. But I considered the 
distress was still much more significant than the £75 which Sainsburys offered Mrs T, 
because anyone would think oh not again and would wonder if the problem was ever going 
away. As Mrs T said, it had been going on for years, and through no fault of her own. Mrs T 
found out about the marker and reported the fraud to Sainsburys in July 2017, but she was 
still having ongoing distressing problems in July 2020. This was a very long time for a 
customer to have to deal with the upset and inconvenience. Obviously the actual fraud 
wasnt Sainsburys fault, but if it had dealt with it promptly and accurately, Mrs T wouldnt 
have had to suffer anxiety and hassle for this length of time.   
So when Mrs T told us about the severe impact this had on her, I was persuaded that this 
was every bit as upsetting, frustrating and inconvenient as she says, especially given the 
length of time involved. I found that the compensation which Sainsburys offered was 
inadequate for the impact it had had on Mrs T. Being a victim of fraud is a bad enough 
experience without the practical ramifications dragging on for years, and I considered 
Sainsburys should have taken particular care to make sure its records and systems were 
accurate. Sainsburys also refused to accept responsibility for the third default marker, on the 
grounds that it claimed that error was done by the credit reference agency.
I also looked at the financial loss which Mrs T suffered. Mrs T was keen to point out that she 
didnt ask Sainsburys to refund her for this, but I found that this was a financial loss which I 
was persuaded resulted directly and solely from Sainsburys error. If it hadnt been for this 
error, Mrs T has explained that she would have been able to source a mortgage online 
herself, and wouldnt have had to pay a broker. Mrs T had been clear about that and I was 
persuaded that this is the case. So it wouldnt be fair for Mrs T to have to foot the bill  when 
thats a cost she could have avoided. 
The second broker confirmed that Mrs T paid him £1,000, and he identified the problem as 
the Sainsburys default. After this was identified the broker obtained an offer from a high 
street lender at normal rates, which completed in December 2019. This backs up what Mrs T 
told our investigator, that before the fraud against her, shed never had anything bad 
recorded against her name, and hadnt even known what a credit file was. 
Taking all these factors into account, I considered that Sainsburys should pay Mrs T:
- £750 compensation for the considerable distress and inconvenience its errors 
caused her. This includes the impact of the mistakes themselves, and the delay in 
response for which Sainsburys offered Mrs T £50 in its January 2020 letter.
- £1,000 financial loss for the fee which Mrs T had to pay the second broker.
Sadly, this service doesnt have any way of preventing a similar problem happening with 
Sainsburys systems again. But if Mrs T does experience problems again, then she would have to complain to Sainsburys first before this service can get involved, although I do hope 
that this is now resolved for all parties.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs T accepted the provisional decision.
Sainsburys said that:
- It had always agreed to pay the second fee less what Mrs T would have had to pay 
the first broker. It said that it had tried to understand this from Mrs T but given the 
explanation in the provisional decision, it agreed that the reimbursement of the full 
amount was fair;
- The compensation was more than Sainsburys would offer, but it accepted that the 
full circumstances had been reviewed, and it didnt believe anything had been missed 
or not considered;
- In respect of the third issue being an error by the credit reference agency, 
Sainsburys said it was disappointed about how this had been positioned in the 
provisional decision. Sainsburys hadnt tried to mislead. It explained that it reported 
the same information to each credit reference agency, and the fact that on the third 
occasion, it only appeared on one credit reference agency confirmed it just hadnt 
been removed properly after the second instance. Sainsburys said it accepted that if 
it hadnt made the mistake in the first place, it wouldnt have happened, but it tried 
hard to provide transparent information, and would like this re-phrased.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the responses to the provisional decision.
Im sorry that Sainsburys feels that the wording of the provisional decision implied that it had 
tried to mislead about the third incident. I accept that Sainsburys didnt try to mislead. But 
this doesnt alter my conclusions about what, in all the circumstances of this case, would be 
a fair outcome.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Mrs 
T:
- £750 compensation for the considerable distress and inconvenience its errors 
caused her. This includes the impact of the mistakes themselves, and the delay in 
response for which Sainsburys offered Mrs T £50 in its January 2020 letter.
- £1,000 financial loss, plus interest, for the fee which Mrs T had to pay the second 
broker. Interest should be calculated at 8% simple from the date in 2019 when Mrs T 
paid the broker, to the date of settlement. Mrs T should supply evidence of the date 
of payment which we will forward to Sainsburys. If Sainsburys makes a deduction from the interest for income tax, it should tell Mrs T how 
much it has taken off, and must provide a tax deduction certificate if Mrs T asks for one. This 
will allow her to reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman