DRN-3596833
The complaint
Dr K complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) for delays in attending to 
respond to a leak. Dr K wants British Gas to pay him compensation for the costs of a 
plumber he engaged, damage to another property and for the increase in his insurance 
premiums following the leak.
What happened
Dr K is a landlord. One of his properties is rented out to multiple tenants and has individually 
locked bedrooms. He held boiler and plumbing cover with British Gas.  
In October 2020, Dr K reported evidence of a leak at the rental property to British Gas. He 
wanted British Gas to identify the source of the leak and isolate it. 
British Gas attended the property on 21 October 2020. The engineer tried to locate the 
source of the leak but was unable to identify where it was coming from. The bedrooms were 
locked at the time of the visit, so the engineer was unable to check in those rooms. The 
engineer indicated that a return visit would be needed when the rooms would be accessible. 
Dr K contacted British Gas again on 28 October 2020. He said that the leak was getting 
worse and there was now damage showing in the flat below. 
British Gas arranged to attend on 30 October 2020, but again the engineer was unable to 
identify the source of the leak. Floorboards were lifted during that visit and no water or leak 
was detected. 
Dr K contacted British Gas again and British Gas sent engineers again in late November 
2020. The engineer used a thermal camera to track out heating pipes and removed 
kickboards to inspect pipes below the boiler. The engineer observed large holes to the 
outside for cables to go through and advised Dr K that this could be a source of rainwater 
entering. He also advised a boiler check as the boiler had high pressure and staining from 
water below the boiler pipe. No repairs were carried out on this visit. 
The leak continued and ultimately Dr K authorised his tenant to engage a private plumber 
some months later. That plumber carried out works described as:
Radiator leak small room - £85
Kitchen leak inspection - £140
Boiler repair. Labour £102.6
Leak repair labour (3xvisits) £540
Total £867.60. 
Dr K then reimbursed his tenant £867.60. 
The property below experienced extensive damage which was claimed against Dr Ks 
insurance. His premiums for property insurance have subsequently increased. 
Dr K complained to British Gas. He felt that the delay in engineers attending caused the leak 
to get worse and resulted in greater damage to the property and property below. He wants 
British Gas to reimburse him for the cost of the repair, and to pay his additional costs. 
British Gas partially upheld his complaint about delays and offered him £150 compensation. 
British Gas said it would pay the costs of the plumber that carried out the repair if a VAT 
invoice giving detail of the repairs was provided. British Gas later paid a further £100 
compensation to Dr K, bringing the total compensation offered to £250. 
Dr K was not happy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and partially upheld the complaint. He considered 
that British Gas had not responded promptly enough to calls regarding leaks. He thought 
that British Gas should increase its compensation to £300 in total. He did not think that there 
was evidence that British Gas was liable for damage caused by the leak, and thought that 
British Gass offer to reimburse the costs of the plumber who fixed the leak was reasonable, 
if Dr K produced a VAT receipt. 
Dr K did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
British Gas also did not agree to increase its compensation to £300. It considered that the 
£250 it had paid was sufficient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Dr Ks concerns that he has incurred substantial costs resulting from this water 
ingress and I understand that he feels that this is the fault of British Gas. He has said he 
encountered difficulties reaching British Gas and that his requests for help were not 
appropriately prioritised when he did. 
It is clear that Dr K did not consider his exchanges with British Gas helpful, when he was 
able to make contact. 
Overall, there is not enough information for me to form a reliable view on whether British Gas 
is responsible for the leak continuing for the time it did. It appears that the contractor who 
ultimately carried out repairs described a radiator leak in the small room, and an inspection 
for a leak in the kitchen. 
British Gas has demonstrated that its engineer checked radiators for leaks and 
recommended a boiler check as there was evidence of staining in the kitchen from an 
escape of water. 
Without more evidence about this leak it is not possible to tell whether British Gas could 
have possibly identified a radiator leak, or if this was even ongoing at the time of British 
Gass visits. It is also unclear whether the British Gas engineers had access to the small 
room on the visits. Dr K has been asked to provide further details of the repairs but has not 
done so. Consequently, I cannot say that British Gas is at fault for not identifying and repairing the 
leak. I think that British Gas has acted reasonably in saying that it will consider reimbursing 
the costs of repairs if provided with further evidence. 
I do not criticise that response and think it sensible. 
Where there is a shortcoming from British Gas is in the response times. It is clear that there 
were multiple contacts from Dr K reporting an escape of water, and British Gas did not send 
engineers back for further investigations quickly enough for what were essentially a home 
emergency. 
It is not clear when Dr K contacted British Gas on each occasion, but as the leak was 
reported to be ongoing, British Gas ought to have scheduled further visits quickly when it 
was not able to access parts of the property, and should have returned quickly when further 
called. 
I consider that Dr K was caused some additional inconvenience during this time having to 
mediate between British Gas and his tenants. 
My colleague has recommended that British Gas increase its compensation to £300 in total. 
British Gas has already paid £250 and thinks that is sufficient, and Dr K considers that 
British Gas should pay a much larger sum. 
I am satisfied that it would not be reasonable to award the compensation Dr K has asked for, 
as evidence to support that has not been provided. 
I consider that the sum suggested by my colleague is reasonable and in line with other 
awards we would make in similar circumstances. 
I therefore endorse my colleagues view and partially uphold this complaint.  
Putting things right
In order to put matters right, I consider that British Gas should pay a further £50 
compensation for Dr Ks distress and inconvenience. This will bring the total compensation 
to £300.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Dr Ks complaint and direct British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Dr K a further £50 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman