DRN-4075843
Complaint
Ms W has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly added 
interest, fees and charges to her overdraft even after she got into contact to explain that she 
was struggling to repay what she owed.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ws complaint and thought Nationwide should have 
realised Ms Ws overdraft had already become unsustainable for her by January 2020. So it 
needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Ms Ws overdraft from this 
point. Despite having been provided with additional time to do so, Nationwide didnt respond 
and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman as per the next stage of our dispute 
resolution process.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Nationwide acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from January 2020. By this point, 
it was evident Ms Ws overdraft had become unsustainable for her. 
A cursory look at her statements during this period shows that Ms W hadnt seen a credit 
balance for an extended period of time. And by this stage the credits going into the account 
didnt suggest that it was reasonable for Nationwide to believe that Ms W was in a position to 
repay what she owed without borrowing further or experiencing difficulty either.    
So I think that by January 2020 Nationwide should have stopped providing the overdraft on 
the same terms and treated Ms W with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, 
fees and charges on the overdraft. All of this means that Nationwide should have realised 
that Ms W was experiencing financial difficulty  especially after she got in contact to explain 
that she was struggling to exit her overdraft and offered her help to repay what she owed. As 
Nationwide didnt react to Ms Ws account usage or what it was being told, I think it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably. 
Ms W ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when she was already 
struggling to repay what she owed. So Im satisfied that Ms W lost out because of what 
Nationwide did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Nationwide needs to do to put things right for Ms W
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ws complaint for Nationwide to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Ws current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from January 2020 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made 
Nationwide should contact Ms W to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Ms W is 
encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Nationwide to reach a 
suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Ms Ws credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started taking corrective action on the overdraft in January 2020. 
Nationwide can reduce Ms Ws overdraft limit by the amount of any refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, but only if this wouldnt leave her over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Nationwide should remove any adverse information from Ms Ws credit file. 
Nationwide can also reduce Ms Ws overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ws complaint. Nationwide Building Society 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman