DRN-3917969
The complaint
Mr N is a sole trader. He complains that Lloyds Bank PLC shouldnt have agreed to give his 
business a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) because the business was 
already failing and it wasnt affordable. 
What happened
Mr N ran a business that had banked with Lloyds for some years. 
In 2020, the pandemic prevented him from trading and he successfully applied for a CBIL for 
£25,001. His business later failed completely. 
In November 2021, the bank issued a formal demand for £25,001 plus a small amount of 
interest, later transferring the loan to its Recoveries department. 
Mr N complained that the bank should never have agreed to the loan as they hadnt made 
any affordability checks and he wouldnt have passed them if they had. 
The bank didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. They said they had carried out adequate checks 
and he had met the criteria. They also pointed out that it was a product he had applied for, 
not one they had recommended to him. 
Mr N asked the Financial Ombudsman to look into what had happened. 
One of our investigators did so and didnt recommend upholding Mr Ns complaint. She 
thought the bank had carried out a risk assessment using credit scoring and evidence from 
bank statements. She also said that the bank was entitled to rely on the information Mr N 
gave in his application form, for example, business turnover. 
Mr N asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. He said the business was already 
failing and he did not believe the bank had done any affordability checks, as the business 
wouldnt have passed them if it had. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CBIL scheme was the first of the loan schemes established by the British Business 
Bank (BBB) to assist businesses in getting through the pandemic. The guidance from the 
BBB for CBILs said that applicants needed to have a borrowing proposal that the lender 
would consider viable, were it not for the current pandemic. However, its also relevant that 
lenders were expected to make decisions swiftly so the funds could be made available fast. 
This meant that they werent expected to carry out detailed manual checks. 
Against this background, Ive looked at the evidence of the checks the bank carried out 
before agreeing to Mr Ns CBIL and I think they were sufficient. The bank asked Mr N some 
questions on the phone, but mostly relied on its own dynamic credit score and the past 
evidence of account conduct from bank statements. 
The CBIL agreement Mr N signed included terms and conditions. Clause 5 included various 
representations that the applicant made by applying. These included: There has been no 
material adverse change in the financial condition of your business since the date of the 
financial statement received by the bank prior to the date on which this agreement is signed 
(clause 5.1 (c)). Mr N also had to represent that no events of default had occurred. The 
definitions of events of default included you fail to pay when due any indebtedness owed by 
you to another creditor and you stop or threaten to stop payment of your debts generally. 
He also had to declare his business turnover. The bank was in my view reasonably entitled 
to rely on this information in deciding to lend. 
At the time of the application, Mr N had had a business bank account with Lloyds since 
2010. The bank account had operated satisfactorily, with no unauthorised overdrafts in the 
past year. The statements at that point showed a healthy turnover through the account. The 
banks records show that the business would have met the banks criteria for lending before 
the pandemic. I dont think the bank did anything wrong in relying on this information, 
coupled with the representations made in the CBIL application, to make its lending decision. 
I think its also fair to say that, had the CBIL application been declined, its highly likely that 
Mr N would have applied for a bounce-back loan, when that scheme was announced some 
two months later. I say this because Mr N was understandably clearly very keen to acquire 
funds to keep his business afloat at that point. Bounce-back loans were self-certified so no 
credit check was required. It follows that I think its more likely than not that Mr N would have 
ended up owing the bank the same amount even if the CBIL application was rejected. 
I realise that Mr N has been through a very difficult time with the collapse of a business he 
worked very hard to build up. But the evidence from the time shows that he was very keen to 
borrow the money to keep his business going. Clearly, no-one knew how long the pandemic 
would last and that it would prove impossible to save his business. But I dont think it was 
wrong of the bank to lend to him under the CBIL scheme at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman