DRN-2944362
The complaint
Mr B complains that a holiday apartment was misrepresented. His wife, Mrs B, is an 
additional cardholder on his account. She paid for the apartment using her (additional) card. 
Because the booking was paid for by credit card, Mr and Mrs B say that Santander is liable 
to the same extent as the company which let the apartment to them. The complaint has been 
dealt with almost exclusively by Mrs B.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have for many years had a timeshare for one week in November. They would 
routinely extend their break by renting another apartment at the resort. They would generally 
rent a superior apartment which, like their own timeshare, had a balcony and sea views. 
Those apartments were large enough for four people to stay in some comfort.
In March 2018 Mrs B enquired about booking a superior apartment for the two weeks before 
the timeshare week. She was told however that all the apartments were now called 
standard and that a balcony could not be guaranteed, although her request for one was 
noted. The reservation confirmation included: Capacity: 4.  
Mr and Mrs B arrived in November 2018 as planned. The apartment allocated to them was 
smaller than they had been used to, however, and did not have a balcony. The resort 
management was able to find a larger apartment for the second week of their stay (that is, 
an apartment of the type previously designated as superior but Mrs B has explained that 
for the first week their apartment was much smaller than they had been led to believe and 
could not properly be described as being suitable for four people.
It seems there were a number of meetings and discussions with the resort management 
about the change in designation of the apartments. The management subsequently changed 
the way they described and advertised the apartments. Mr and Mrs B were not the only 
members who had been affected. The resort management also offered a partial refund in 
respect of the November 2018 holiday, representing the difference in the price of a superior 
and standard apartment for a week when they were priced differently. Mr and Mrs B said 
however that they were seeking a full refund for the first week of their holiday, which had 
been ruined.  
The matter was referred to Santander. It said however that it had no liability under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 or otherwise. The case was therefore referred to this 
service where one of our investigators considered what had happened. She concluded that 
the resort management had misrepresented the apartment and had led Mr and Mrs B to 
believe that it was as suitable as a superior apartment had been. She recommended that 
Santander offer to compensate Mr and Mrs B in the same way that the resort management 
company had offered  that is, to pay €141 as a partial refund.
Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs B accepted the investigators conclusions, so I 
considered the case. Having done so, I issued a provisional decision. I concluded, 
provisionally, that Mr B, the resort management and Santander did not have the necessary 
relationship such that section 75 could apply. In any event, I was not persuaded either that 
there had been the necessary breach of contract or misrepresentation on the part of the 
management company.
Mr and Mrs B did not accept my provisional decision. Mrs B reiterated the differences 
between the two types of apartment and that the management company had said they were 
the same. She explained too that she routinely dealt with correspondence and telephone 
calls for her husband, but that he was nevertheless closely involved with the booking in this 
case and was a contracting party.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first of all with the circumstances in which section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 applies and what that means here. Section 75(1) says: 
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a consumer credit agreement used to finance a 
transaction between a debtor and someone (the supplier) other than the creditor. It falls 
within section 12(b) of the Act if it is made under arrangements between the creditor and the 
supplier.
In this case:
Mr B was the debtor, since he was the named holder of the credit card account used to 
pay for the apartment. As an additional card holder, Mrs B is not an account holder in 
her own right.
Santander, as the issuer of the card, was the creditor.
The resort management was the supplier.
There were arrangements between Santander and the resort management (through the 
card scheme) by which the resort management could take credit card payments from 
holders of Santander credit cards.
The effect of this is that, if Mr B (as the debtor) has a claim against the resort management, 
he can bring the same claim against Santander. However, for Mr B to have a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation, he must have had a contract with the resort 
management for the rental of the apartment.
In my provisional decision I said that I was not persuaded that Mr B did enter into a contract 
with the resort management. Mrs B was very clear that she made the booking and 
conducted all the negotiations and that Mr B had no involvement. All the correspondence 
about the nature of the apartment and the changes to the description of the accommodation 
were with her, not with Mr B. I concluded that Mr B had not been a contracting party and that 
he therefore could not have a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the 
resort management. It followed that he could not have a claim under section 75. 
Mrs B said in response that Mr B had benefited from the booking and that he had been 
closely involved in the booking process and the subsequent dispute  even though she had dealt with correspondence. 
I have no reason to doubt what Mrs B has said about Mr Bs involvement here and I accept 
that there were good reasons for her to have dealt with the booking. It is also true that Mr B 
 as well as Mrs B  had the benefit of the booking and was named on the booking 
confirmation. It does not however follow that Mr B was a contracting party who could bring a 
claim against the management company, either in his own right or along with Mrs B. In 
concluding that he was not a contracting party, I considered very carefully the interaction 
with the management company but concluded that its contract was with Mrs B. I have not 
changed my view on that point. 
I have nevertheless considered the underlying claim. Mr and Mrs B had been timeshare 
owners for some 25 years. They had bought a superior apartment rather than a standard 
one and had routinely rented a superior apartment when adding to their holiday week. The 
superior apartment was more expensive to buy, maintain and to rent. They must have known 
therefore that the one-bedroom apartments were not all the same, but that there were at 
least two different types. They may even have viewed both types before buying, although I 
accept that would have been a long time ago. 
In their initial submissions, Mr and Mrs B said that the management company ended the 
differentiation in price in 2018 and said that all one-bedroom apartments were the same. In 
context, however, that can only have meant that all apartments were now the same price. 
Apartments that had previously been classed as standard had not been converted into 
superior apartments. Mr and Mrs B knew that the change meant that they could not be sure 
what type of apartment they would be placed in; they did not take it to mean that all 
apartments were the same or even of the same standard. 
The booking confirmation said that the apartment had a capacity of four. Mrs B says that it 
did not and that it was too small for four people. Both types of apartment could however 
sleep four people  in the bedroom and on a sofa-bed  so I do not believe that it was 
necessarily inaccurate to refer to a capacity of four. It follows that, even if I were to take a 
different view on the application of section 75 here, I am not persuaded that there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation in this case and I do not think it would be fair to 
require Santander to compensate Mr B.          
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Santander UK Plc to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman