DRN-4443893
The complaint
Miss W has complained about the poor service she received from U K Insurance Limited 
when she made a claim for repairs under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Ws car was damaged while parked and in June 2022 she made a claim for her car to 
be repaired. 
UKI arranged for an approved repairer (AR) to repair her car. 
Between July and October 2022 Miss Ws car was returned to the AR and a dealership 
garage multiple times. Miss W said after the first return to repair cosmetic damage, the 
engine juddered and her car - which has a dual fuel tank - switched from LPG to petrol. Miss 
W said in the week she drove her car before it went in for repair, this didnt happen.  
Miss W complained that the AR caused additional damage each time her car was returned 
to her. Miss W said a dealership garage identified a fault with a valve which was under 
warranty. When replacing the valve, it discovered manual damage to a LPG pipe which the 
dealership said was caused either by the incident or by the AR. 
Miss W was very unhappy with the service she received from the AR. She wanted it to cover 
the costs to repair the pipe and compensate her for the additional fuel costs she has 
incurred. 
As Miss Ws car had a dual fuel tank, she explained that LPG is much cheaper than petrol 
and she bought this car specifically to reduce running costs. Miss W said she travels many 
miles for work and so not being able to use LPG has cost her around £100 more a month to 
use her car.
The AR told UKI that the dealership garage had told it the fault wasnt incident related and 
was covered under the warranty. 
In March 2023 UKI upheld Miss Ws complaint in part. It accepted the AR had provided a 
poor service. For the inconvenience caused it paid Miss W £250 compensation. This was in 
addition to £100 compensation paid in July 2022 for poor service by the AR. 
UKI didnt accept it was responsible for the damage to the pipe, based on what its AR told it. 
Miss W remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She provided a copy of a 
report from the dealership garage. This said the damage to the LPG pipe was not caused by 
a manufacturing defect, but had split either when the incident happened or during an 
attempted repair (by the AR). 
Over two views, our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. He 
thought UKI should pay for the costs to repair the pipe as he found the report from the 
dealership more persuasive than the call between the AR and UKI. In this call recording, the 
AR said the dealership garage told them the fault was covered under the warranty. 
The Investigator didnt recommend UKI reimburse Miss W for any additional cost incurred for 
fuel. He said although the AR couldnt identify the cause of damage, neither could the 
dealership garage despite being returned to them a number of times too. He said sometimes 
it is difficult to diagnose a fault and both garages had made several attempts to identify it as 
it wasnt easy to diagnose. 
Miss W disagreed. She says it follows that if the cause of damage was either by the incident 
or by the AR, she shouldnt be at a financial loss because of it. She says as her car was 
driving fine in the week before it went to the AR, she believes the damage wasnt caused by 
the incident, but by the AR during an attempted repair. So she wants UKI to reimburse her 
for additional petrol costs she has incurred - and continues to incur until the LPG pipe is 
replaced. 
I issued a provisional decision on 16 October 2023. I agreed to uphold the complaint, but I 
thought UKI should pay a further £600 compensation for the distress and inconvenience and 
loss generally of not being able to use the LPG fuel part of the car as a result of UKIs 
dispute to pay for the LPG pipe repair. 
UKI provided a copy of the full engineers report. It didnt provide any comments in response 
to my provisional decision. 
Miss W explained that she isnt able to provide proof of what she paid for LPG fuel. She has 
provided some evidence to show what she paid for petrol, but says she also paid cash at 
times, which she doesnt have proof of. Miss W estimates the difference in fuel costs so far 
comes to around £1,116. 
So as both parties had replied, the case has been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were;
I dont think UKI has done enough to resolve Miss Ws complaint. Our Investigator 
asked UKI to provide its engineer report. It provided a limited report which lacks 
detail. So our Investigator asked UKI to provide additional information which would 
be included as standard in an engineers assessment of damage to a car: full report 
with photos, an estimate for repair, and diagram showing the area of damage to Miss 
Ws car. UKI hasnt provided this. So Im unable to tell if the area of damage was the 
same location as the damage being claimed for to the LPG pipe. While the limited 
report provided states the area of damage is to the front of the car, the AR in the call 
recording provided with UKI said there was slight cosmetic damage to the back of the 
car. 
The AR admitted that Miss Ws specification of car is unusual. However, it seems the 
dealership garage wasnt able to identify the issue despite assessing the car a 
number of times too - until it went to replace a faulty valve that was covered under 
warranty. The dealerships original diagnosis was that a faulty valve was causing 
Miss Ws engine to switch to petrol, but it then found a damaged LPG pipe when 
replacing the valve.  
I think UKI has paid a fair amount of compensation for the poor service provided to 
Miss W - outside of the issue with the LPG pipe. But as UKI didnt uphold this part of 
Miss Ws complaint, it hasnt paid any compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this failing. 
Miss W says she is continuing to incur additional fuel costs - so I assume she hasnt 
paid privately for the repairs to the LPG pipe to be carried out. Miss W says that UKI is directly responsible for additional fuel costs of £100 a month. 
If Miss W can provide persuasive evidence to support her claim, such as evidence of 
fuel payments before and after over a period of 3 months each side, I will consider it. 
In the absence of any detailed information about the damage and repairs from the 
AR, I find the written report provided by the dealership garage carries more weight 
than what the AR told UKI. So I think UKI should meet the costs to replace the 
damaged LPG pipe. I think it should ensure Miss W is provided with a courtesy car 
while these repairs are carried out. 
In the absence of any new information, I dont intend to ask UKI to pay Miss W a 
separate amount for financial loss, but instead an additional compensation award of 
£600 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to promptly arrange 
repairs to the LPG pipe. This award is a general recommendation to take into 
consideration any additional fuel costs Miss W has incurred, as I think its reasonable 
to conclude that not being able to use LPG fuel will have meant Miss Ws fuel costs 
have been higher. As Ive said, if Miss W can provide persuasive evidence to show 
the difference in fuel costs as a direct result of UKIs failure to replace the LPG pipe, I 
will reconsider her claim for financial loss. 
Ive looked at the engineers report UKI has provided in response to my provisional decision. 
It tells me Miss Ws car had incident related damage to the right front, side and rear. In the 
absence of any other response to my provisional decision, I maintain my view that the 
dealership garages evidence carries more weight. And so I think UKI should arrange for the 
repairs to the LPG pipe. 
I understand Miss W hasnt been able to provide evidence sufficient enough for me to 
consider her claim in full for additional fuel costs. So Im satisfied that a fair outcome is for 
UKI to increase the compensation award by a further £600 as set out in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Arrange for the LPG pipe to be replaced by a dealership garage and provide Miss W 
with a courtesy car for the duration of repair. 
Pay Miss W compensation of £600 in addition to the compensation it has already 
paid for poor service. This is for the distress and inconvenience caused by failing to 
replace the LPG pipe when diagnosed on 29 October 2022. 
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate 
of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman