DRN-1700358
 
The complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although another business sold the PPI to Mrs C, Allianz Insurance Plcs accepted 
responsibility for the sale. So, Ill refer only to Allianz in this decision.
What happened
Mrs C applied for a personal reserve account in 1997. The PPI was sold to her at the same 
time. 
I gather the policy cost 66p per £100 of the accounts monthly outstanding balance. It would 
have paid 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs C was off work sick or became 
unemployed. And it could have continued to pay while she was off work until the outstanding 
balance (at the start of the claim) had been paid off. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs C didnt agree, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz ought to have informed Mrs C that the PPI was optional and get her agreement 
before adding it. Ive seen a copy of the account application form Mrs C signed, which 
included a separate section for PPI. In that section, it seems Mrs C marked a box  which 
she could have left unticked  to take PPI and wrote her name and date of birth as the 
person to be insured. 
I note Mrs C says the handwriting wasnt hers, but she nevertheless signed the form which 
indicates to me she was happy with its contents. 
Overall, I think Mrs C was made aware the PPI was optional and that she agreed to take it. I 
can understand if she remembers things differently.
I dont think Allianz advised Mrs C to take the PPI. So, I dont think it needed to take steps to 
ensure the PPI was right for Mrs C. But Allianz still had to give Mrs C clear, fair and not 
misleading information so she could make up her own mind about whether the PPI was right 
for her. I cant say for sure if that happened, but I dont think having better information would 
have put Mrs C off taking out the PPI in any case. I say that because:It seems Mrs C was eligible for the cover under the policy terms. And she wasnt 
significantly affected by any of the main things the policy excluded or limited cover 
for.
The PPI provided a relatively high level of benefit per month for a prolonged period of 
time, and at a relatively low cost. Potentially, it would have continued to pay out until 
the outstanding balance was paid off. So, I think she still would have seen the PPI as 
worth having despite her sick pay and redundancy pay entitlement and the savings 
she says she held.
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs C would have found the premium unaffordable. 
And, as it was payable on a monthly basis, Mrs C could have cancelled the PPI at 
any time, and at no extra cost, if she decided she no longer wanted it.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs Cs lost out because of how Allianz sold her 
the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman