DRN-3025198
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs K complain that Accord Mortgages Limited wouldnt allow them to port their 
mortgage product when they sold their house and wanted to move to a holiday home they 
already owned.
What happened
Mr D and Mrs K took out a mortgage with Accord in 2019. The mortgage was arranged 
through a broker. It was an interest-only mortgage for a term of five years, borrowing 
£83,000 on a property in London worth £700,000. The contractual monthly payments 
(CMPs) were £109.90 rising to £293.49 based on a tracker rate at the time of 1.59%. The 
repayment strategy was the sale of the property. There was no early repayment charge 
(ERC) and the mortgage product could be ported provided that Mr D and Mrs K and the 
property they were buying met Accords lending criteria at the time they moved.
In 2020, Mr D and Mrs K decided to sell their house and pending finding a new property - 
possibly in Devon - decided to move to a holiday home they already owned in Dorset valued 
at £175,000 and wanted to port the mortgage product to that property. 
Accord took some time to consider the application but eventually refused it as it said the 
application didnt meet its lending criteria or policy. It said that its main area of concern was 
the income sustainability for Mr D following the move. Accord suggested that if Mr D and Mrs 
K sold the property, they could make a further application to port down the line and would 
have a nine-month window to do so. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld as her view was that Accord had acted fairly when assessing the loan 
proposal. Mr D and Mrs K disagreed and asked for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts in the complaint are somewhat unusual. Mr D and Mrs K wanted to port the 
mortgage not to their ultimate residential destination but to a holiday home that they already 
owned pending deciding on the property that they wanted to move to. Portings a process 
that allows borrowers to transfer a mortgage product to a new loan secured on a new 
property. But it involves a fresh mortgage application and in this case was subject to Mr D 
and Mrs K satisfying Accords lending criteria at the time of application. My role is to consider 
whether Accord applied its criteria fairly to this application. As this complaint is against 
Accord, Im not considering whether the initial advice to take out the mortgage in 2019 was 
suitable for Mr D and Mrs K as that mortgage was sourced through a broker and Accord 
wouldnt have given advice on the suitability or otherwise of the mortgage.
Several issues appear to have prevented the application proceeding. Firstly, Accords 
lending specialist had concerns about the sustainability of Mr Ds income. Accord has a duty 
to the regulator and the customer to ensure that a mortgage is affordable. Mr D was a self-
employed painter and decorator. The lending specialist was concerned that Mr D, who was 
the highest income earner, was leaving his income base in London but hoping to retain the 
work there - a long distance from his new residential base - but also hoping to build his work 
and income up in the Dorset area although that was only a temporary residence. The 
specialist concluded that Mr D was unlikely to maintain his current income. I note that there 
were other concerns which led to information being asked for about the use of savings as a 
repayment strategy and concerns that as the property was a holiday home that there might 
be a temptation to leave the mortgage on the property when they eventually moved and use 
it as a holiday let. 
This wasnt a straightforward port. Mr D and Mrs K were asking Accord to increase 
substantially the loan to value ratio and so to increase its risk exposure. So, that gave a 
greater emphasis to the income sustainability of the mortgage. But at the same time, they 
lost a source of income - the holiday let - and there was a major change to Mr Ds work that 
Accord considered likely to adversely affect his earning capacity and, so, make the mortgage 
unaffordable. Mr D had an income whist in London of just over £30,000 per year. If Mr Ds 
plan was to continue to work in London, there would likely be substantial commuting costs or 
costs of alternative accommodation which would greatly diminish that net income. There 
would also be a concern given the length of the commute as to whether it was practical.  If 
Mr D began to work in his new base, there would likely be time required to build up his work 
connections and income. In either case, I dont believe that it was unreasonable for Accord 
to conclude that Mr Ds previous income wouldnt be a good guide to the future income that 
would support the loan. And, as noted above, in now living in the holiday home, Mr D and 
Mrs K would be losing income from holiday lets.  
Im pleased to note, as Mrs K tells me, that Mr D has been able to sustain his income but 
that doesnt mean that Accords lending specialists concerns werent reasonable at the time. 
I also note that Mrs K as been able to maintain her income, but I dont see that there was a 
major concern that her income would fall. I also note that Mr D and Mrs K had substantial 
savings but clearly these were going to be used to buy their new house down the line so I 
consider that it was reasonable for Accord to look at the sustainability of the mortgage from 
Mr D and Mrs Ks income.
Mr D and Mrs K were applying for a new loan on a property and it was a matter for Accord to 
decide whether it wanted to provide the loan or not. I have to consider whether it acted fairly 
in deciding on the application. My view is that Accord considered the matter fairly and 
concluded that, at that time, on the evidence before it, that their income was unlikely to 
sustain payment of the mortgage. Although I appreciate that Mr D and Mrs K disagree with 
that conclusion, I dont consider that it was an unreasonable conclusion to reach and, so, I 
cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman