DRN-2887820
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs M complain that Globe Financial Advisors Ltd (GIFA):
Wrongly advised them to put their investment bond (the bond) and Whole of Life 
(WOL) plan in bare trusts.
Wrongly advised them to have a capital guarantee for the bond.
Didnt set up the trust for the WOL plan.
Didnt take account of Mr F not needing drawdown on his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) so that he has incurred unnecessary charges from the SIPP 
provider for determining levels of drawdown.
Didnt review the investments in the SIPP and carry out fund switches to maximise 
growth.
Didnt review and make fund switches for Mrs Ms pension to maximise growth. 
What happened
In 2014 Mr F and Mrs M met with an adviser for GIFA to discuss their Inheritance tax (IHT) 
position. They were advised to invest £100,000 in the bond in Mrs Ms name to be held 
within a Discounted Gift Trust (DGT) with a guaranteed capital amount at the end of 20 
years. The adviser recommended that the bond be held in a bare trust with four named 
beneficiaries. 
The adviser also recommended they take an income of 5% from the bond to pay the annual 
premium of £5,000 for the WOL plan with a death benefit of £176,408, held within an 
absolute trust with the same beneficiaries as for the bond.
I issued a provisional decision and my findings are set out below:
Mrs M has made it clear that the main issue in this complaint is the form of trust that the 
adviser recommended in 2014 for the both the bond and WOL plan and I have 
concentrated on this issue but will comment briefly on the other issues raised in the 
original complaint made to GIFA.
Mr F and Mrs M have said they have paid for a capital guarantee for the bond when they 
didnt need this. I am not persuaded that the adviser did anything wrong in advising they 
have a capital guarantee. This gave some certainty that the bond would be able to pay the 
premium for the WOL plan for at least 20 years and I think it was a reasonable 
recommendation in the circumstances.
From the information available the WOL plan has been placed in trust and the provider 
has accepted the failure to deal with this properly originally was its responsibility.
GIFA offered to repay some of the charges made by the SIPP provider for assessing
drawdown and as far as I am aware this is no longer an issue.
GIFA explained in its response that it had reviewed both Mr Fs and Mrs Ms 
pension investments and there had been fund switches where appropriate. I have 
seen no persuasive evidence the adviser did anything wrong in this regard.
Turning to the issue of the trusts I think it is important to make clear that the purpose of 
the bond and WOL plan was to pay the potential IHT liability. Of the £100,000 invested in 
the bond nearly 62% was exempt from IHT at the outset and was fully exempt as of April 
2021. In short, the advice to invest in the bond has removed £100,000 from the estate for 
IHT purposes. From what I have seen it appears the estate may have gone up in value 
so the IHT position hasnt been significantly changed as from 2014 because £100,000 
has come out of the estate.
However, the main IHT benefit of the bond wasnt in taking £100,000 out of the estate but 
in that this provided an income that has paid the premium for the WOL plan - which was 
intended to pay the majority of the IHT as far as I am aware from what I have seen.
I note the suitability letter sent to Mr F and Mrs M in 2014 refers to a bare trust for the 
bond and an absolute trust for the WOL plan. These are one in the same type of trust 
and I will refer to a bare trust in my findings.
There is no mention of the possibility of a discretionary trust and I have seen nothing to 
suggest this was discussed by the adviser. I note that GIFA has said that there are HMRC 
reporting obligations and potential tax consequences using a discretionary trust. I accept 
this but note the adviser stated this wasnt the main reason he advised using bare trusts. It 
also doesnt explain why Mr F and Mrs M werent at least made aware of the possibility of 
a discretionary trust. GIFA also said that the beneficiaries were known. But this is often the 
case and doesnt mean a bare trust is preferable to a discretionary trust.
The adviser explained why he recommended a bare trust. In short, he has said this was 
because one of the children had received his portion of the estate already and Mr F and 
Mrs M wanted to make sure the other four children received equal parts of the estate 
without argument and that they would be absolutely entitled. He has said that they wanted 
to make sure that the child who had already inherited shouldnt benefit from the plans in 
trust and make sure that no one could amend the beneficiaries.
I note what the adviser has said but I dont think it provides a satisfactory explanation as to 
why he recommended bare trusts. The primary purpose of the bond and WOL plan was to 
make sure there was money available to pay the IHT on the overall estate. The bond and 
WOL plan werent going to be part of the estate but would fall outside of it. There was no 
reason there needed to be an equal split of the bond and WOL plan between the 
beneficiaries given their main purpose was nothing to do with providing the beneficiaries 
with a lump sum for their own use.
Also, if Mr F and Mrs M at the time wanted to make sure that the child who had already 
benefitted wasnt a beneficiary under the trusts there was no reason to think this wouldnt 
be achieved if a discretionary trust had been used - the trustees have discretion to 
determine to which beneficiaries the trust monies are paid under a discretionary trust.
The adviser has said it would be in the best interests of the beneficiaries of the trusts to 
pay the IHT when this become payable, because the executors of the estate wont be able 
to get a Grant of probate if they dont. I agree this would be the expectation where the 
beneficiaries of the estate and the beneficiaries of the trusts are the same. From what Mrs 
M has said this was the position as at the time of advice.However, that is no longer the case. Mrs M has provided copies of the current Wills which 
show that as of 2019 there are three beneficiaries of the estate, only one of which is also a 
beneficiary of the bare trusts.
So, as matters stand, only one of the beneficiaries of the bare trusts has reason to pay 
their portion of the bond and WOL plan towards the IHT liability  this being the person 
who is also a beneficiary under the current Wills. The other three beneficiaries of the bare 
trusts have no reason to pay anything towards the IHT as they will not benefit from this 
and will be out of pocket as a result  as Mrs M has pointed out.
Having considered the information provided by both parties I think the adviser should 
have made Mr F and Mrs M aware that a discretionary trust was a possibility. He has 
referred to the beneficiaries being known, but as I have already pointed out this is often 
the case and doesnt mean that a discretionary trust isnt a more suitable option.
However, I still need to be satisfied that Mr F and Mrs M would have chosen to use a 
discretionary trust if this option had been referred to by the adviser. Based on the 
information I have seen I dont think I can say it is more likely than not they would have 
done so.
I acknowledge what Mrs M has said about life changing but I think, to some extent at 
least, she and Mr F are looking at this with the benefit of hindsight rather than on what 
their thinking would have been at the time of advice in 2014. I note Mrs M has referred to 
a grandchild as one of the changes that has happened. However, this isnt something 
she or Mr F would have had in mind in 2014 given they have said the child was 
unexpected.
In any event, the possibility of a grandchild isnt something I would expect to influence a 
decision about the type of trust to use when advising on an IHT solution. Mrs Ms 
reference to her grandchild as being a reason for a discretionary trust suggests she is 
looking at the bond and WOL plan more as investments with no other purpose than to 
provide a capital return to the beneficiaries.
Whilst it is quite possible that on Mrs M passing away  assuming she is the last to pass 
away  the bond and WOL will provide some return to the beneficiaries over and above 
the IHT liability, this isnt the reason they were recommended. They were recommended 
on the basis they would cover the IHT liability, so the beneficiaries of the estate didnt 
lose part of their inheritance through having to pay IHT.
The reason that the intended purpose of the bond and WOL will no longer be realised is 
the decision Mr F and Mrs M made to change their Wills, which now means three of the 
beneficiaries of the bare trusts no longer stand to inherit anything from the estate. It is 
that decision which has led to the bond and WOL plan no longer fulfilling the purpose for 
which they were taken out.
I note Mrs M has referred to those beneficiaries not wanting to give up their inheritance  
in reference to the bond and WOL plan - to pay the IHT. I think it is worth making clear 
that the bond and WOL plan were never intended to provide an inheritance in the first 
place.
I accept its possible that Mr F and Mrs M may have decided in 2014 they didnt want the 
beneficiaries of the trusts to be absolutely entitled to an equal share of the bond and 
WOL plan because of the possibility they could change their minds in the future as to 
who would benefit from their Wills. But it is at least equally likely that as of 2014 they wouldnt have contemplated any need to change their Wills and would have chosen a 
bare trust in any event.
In order to make a finding they would have used a discretionary trust I need to be 
satisfied on the evidence that it is more likely than not they would have done so. There 
is no way of knowing at this time whether they would have thought there was a 
possibility they would change their Wills such that they would have wanted the flexibility 
of a discretionary trust.
So, I am unable to say it is more likely than not they would have chosen to use a
discretionary trust rather than a bare trust.
However, given I think the adviser should have made Mr F and Mrs M aware of the 
possibility of using a discretionary trust I think GIFA should pay £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by them not being made aware of this in 2014.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional decision. GIFA 
responded and said that whilst a discretionary trust could have been used Mrs M 
wanted to make sure that one of her sons couldnt influence the trustees so that he 
could inherit anything further. GIFA said a bare trust was the only way to ensure 
that didnt happen.
Mrs M and Mr F responded and, in short, made the following points:
They think they were blinded by removal of the £100,000 from the estate 
which was used to set up the bond and WOL plan. 
The circumstances involving their children shouldnt have come into the 
equation and they werent given options. 
It seems GIFA took it upon themselves to decide morally what should be 
done but life changes, as it has for them, and if they had been given 
flexibility in the Trust those changes wouldnt have mattered. 
The tax implications of using a discretionary trust dont apply unless the 
investment exceeds the nil-rate band.
Surely, they are entitled to be put back in the position that they would have 
been in if they had been advised to use a discretionary trust.
The only way they can rectify things is to cancel the WOL plan and take out 
a new one and initial enquiries indicate the premium will be a lot higher to 
provide the same amount of cover.
The have also paid out £35,000 from the bond to fund the WOL plan and 
why should they lose this money.
They have also paid £5,386 for the initial set-up fee.
They feel they are entitled to a sum which represents the cost of taking out 
further investments that would cover the IHT that would have been covered 
if they had been advised to invest through a discretionary trust.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. I note Mr F 
and Mrs M argue they should be put back in the position they would have been in if they had 
been advised about using a discretionary trust.
 However, it is only if I am satisfied that they would have used a discretionary trust that it 
would be appropriate to award redress on that basis, and there isnt enough persuasive 
evidence they would have done so. 
Whilst I have found that Mr F and Mrs M should have been made aware of the possibility of 
using a discretionary trust, I have not found they should have been advised to use a 
discretionary trust.
 
I think, based on the evidence, there were pros and cons with both forms of trust, and I am 
not satisfied it is possible to say the adviser should have advised using a discretionary trust 
over a bare trust based on what he has said as to what Mr F and Mrs M wanted at the time. 
The advisers evidence is that one of Mrs Ms children had already received what he was 
entitled to and that she and Mr F wanted to make sure that the other children got what they 
were entitled to without argument and they didnt want the child who had already received 
his entitlement to benefit any further. 
The child in question wasnt a beneficiary of the trusts and Mrs M has said that those 
beneficiaries were the same as for the estate at the time. This lends weight to what the 
adviser has said about their Mr Fs and Mrs Ms intentions at the time.
Mr F and Mrs M have said that the circumstances of the children shouldnt have come into it. 
However, the advisers role is to provide suitable advice based on the needs and 
circumstances of the client and this can obviously involve taking into account what the client 
wants regarding the children  especially where the advice is to do with trusts and estates 
that involve the children. 
Mr F and Mrs M have suggested that the adviser based his advice on what he thought 
morally should be done. But he has explained his reasons for the advice he gave and there 
is no reason to think this was based on some moral viewpoint of his own rather than on his 
understanding of Mr Fs and Mrs Ms needs and circumstances.
Although I am not able to say that the adviser should have advised Mr F and Mrs M to use a 
discretionary trust, I do think that the adviser should have made them aware that this was an 
option. I think the question then is whether they would have decided to use a discretionary 
trust rather than a bare trust.
 
However, whilst I acknowledge that they might have chosen to use a discretionary trust, 
there is simply no way of saying that it is more likely than not they would have done so 
based on the information available. It seems to me at least equally likely that they would still 
have chosen a bare trust given what the adviser has said about what they wanted.
  
I acknowledge that Mr F and Mrs M are now in a difficult position regarding IHT, as they 
have a potential IHT liability which the WOL plan is unlikely to cover given three of the 
beneficiaries are unlikely to use their part of the plan to pay this.
But I cant award redress based on GIFA putting things right so far as IHT is concerned 
when I am not able to say it is more likely, than not, they would have chosen to use a 
discretionary trust instead of a bare trust in 2014.
Putting things right
I have awarded £200 for distress and inconvenience because GIFA didnt make Mr F and 
Mrs M aware of the possibility of using a discretionary trust, not because I found that they 
would have used such a trust if they had been made aware of it.My final decision
I uphold this complaint to the extent set out above and for the reasons I have explained 
above and in my provisional decision. Global Independent Financial Advisors Ltd must pay 
Mr F and Mrs M £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman