DRN-3947564
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the poor handling of their claim for damage from an escape of 
water by their home insurer, Hiscox Insurance Company Limited. And the rise in their 
insurance premium at renewal. Hiscox is responsible for the actions of its agents and 
contractors, and I have considered their actions as part of this complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ls home suffered an escape of water in January 2021. Hiscox appointed 
contractors to deal with the leak, but this proved difficult. Mr L called on several occasions to 
find out who was responsible for managing the work and gain updates, but couldnt get a 
satisfactory response. They were also unhappy with a large increase in their premiums.
When Hiscoxs contractors were unable to find the source of the leak, Mr and Mrs L engaged 
their own professionals who quickly found and dealt with the leak. Hiscox said preparatory 
work by its contractors contributed to this resolution. 
In July 2021 Mr and Mrs L complained to Hiscox about the lack of progress with the repairs 
and that Hiscox had increased their insurance premiums by 39% at renewal. Mr and Mrs L 
were also unhappy that Hiscoxs contractor had made a mistake in its plumbing of their 
radiator. 
Hiscox apologised to Mr and Mrs L for a lack of communication during the claim and poor 
repairs by its contractors. Hiscox acknowledged that its contractor incorrectly plumbed the 
radiator and said it removed the contractor from the claim. Hiscox said it had tried to 
progress the claim by using advice from an independent contractor who offered solutions for 
resolving the radiator problem and called a meeting with Mr and Mrs L in July. Hiscox paid 
Mr and Mrs L £100 compensation. 
Hiscox told Mr and Mrs L that the increased premium applied to new and existing policies 
and factors include claims propensity, inflation, and increased business costs. Hiscox said 
the increase was in line with its underwriting criteria for a policy with this claims history. 
Mr and Mrs L said Hiscoxs offer of £100 didnt address the stress, ongoing inconvenience, 
disruption, time, direct costs, and upset caused. And they didnt accept Hiscoxs explanation 
regarding the increase in their premium. Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to our service. 
They said they have only made one claim during the four years of the policy. And said that 
Hiscox hasnt provided a breakdown of how the increase in their premium was calculated. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said there were multiple 
incidents during the claim and the contractors actions were investigated at Hiscoxs request. 
He said the claim took longer than it should have and Hiscox should pay Mr and Mrs L £750 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused them. 
The investigator said Hiscox had followed its pricing guidelines in calculating the premium 
charged to Mr and Mrs L at renewal, and had added further cover. He was satisfied that 
Hiscox had treated Mr and Mrs L fairly at renewal.
Hiscox accepted the investigators view of the complaint, but Mr and Mrs L did not. Mr L said 
he thought the compensation should be £10,000. They reiterated their unhappiness with the 
handling of the claim and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Complex escape of water claims generally involve considerable damage, multiple parties 
and take several months to resolve. It is inherent within this process that there will be 
distress and prolonged inconvenience to the policyholders and that policyholders will need to 
spend time in progressing the claim. My role is to determine if delays and difficulties were 
avoidable by the insurer and its agents and if so, what the impact has been on the 
policyholders. 
Overall the claim took a year to complete, and this was longer than it ought to have taken. I 
dont accept Mr and Mrs Ls assertion that the claim ought to have taken three months as 
this is well inside the time required by the many similar claims I have seen in this period. The 
frustration for Mr and Mrs L was that during the claim the leak was undiscovered and work 
on repairs couldnt be carried out until this was resolved. I agree with the investigator that 
Hiscox needed to be more proactive in reaching this point. 
Im pleased that Hiscox has apologised to Mr and Mrs L for the poor communications they 
received. I can see that Mr and Mrs L had to pursue the claim beyond what would normally 
be expected and some of their communications were not responded to. I can understand 
how this added to their frustration about the slow progress. 
Hiscoxs contractors had taken several weeks to look for, but not find the source of the leak. 
This was not good service, particularly as the contractors werent listening to Mr L about the 
likely source of the leak and the significance of paint disturbance at that spot. Hiscox 
replaced its contractors during the claim and apologised to Mr and Mrs L for the poor work 
carried out. This is how we would expect an insurer to react when faced with such lack of 
progress, but it shows the difficulties Mr and Mrs L faced in reaching a conclusion to their 
claim and the delays that they experienced. 
Hiscox responded to our enquiry about its contractor to say that they incorrectly plumbed the 
radiator and it removed them from the claim and hasnt included the costs within the overall 
claim costs. Hiscox said that following a meeting with Mr L in July 2022 it offered options to 
deal with the issue and sent its agents at Mr Ls request to be certain there was no leak from 
the heating system. 
Hiscox said it will consider an alternative resolution to the issue if Mr L puts one forward, but 
it is waiting to see how he wants to proceed. I think it was an unfortunate human error that 
the radiator was incorrectly plumbed, but Hiscox gave a reasonable response to the issue. 
Hiscox consider this to be the only remaining issue with the claim.
I agree with the investigator that Mr and Mrs L had to expend a lot of extra effort, over and 
above that normally expected, to pursue their claim. They suffered loss of use of their 
downstairs toilet for several months and were unable to host visitors. I think the 
recommended award of £750 compensation is a fair and reasonable reflection of the distress 
and inconvenience this has caused them and is in accordance with awards we have made in 
similar circumstances.  However, I can see that this sum is a very long way short of Mr and Mrs Ls expectations. 
The amount they think reasonable is well outside of the guidance we follow when 
considering awards and more akin to damages a court might award. This is in part due to 
our not generally awarding compensation for potential earnings during the claim unless there 
is proof of the loss being directly attributable to the claim. If Mr and Mrs L want to keep the 
legal route open, they can reject this decision and it wont have any legal effect. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ls upset at having to pay a large increase for their policy 
during the claim. I have reviewed the information Hiscox has provided to us concerning the 
calculation of its policy premiums. This information in common with similar information we 
see from other insurers, is commercially sensitive and cannot be shared. 
Because it is a commercial decision that insurers may make in deciding what to charge 
policyholders, it is not one with which our service would interfere. Our role is only to see if 
the policyholder has been charged fairly, in other words in accordance with charges to other 
customers in similar circumstances. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that this is the case. 
Insurers make an assessment of premium according to the factors that Hiscox has set out 
and essentially in accordance with the insurers appetite for risk. I have noted that Hiscox 
added further accidental damage cover to the policy which would have increased the price. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs L further compensation of 
£750 for the delays and very poor claims experience that they suffered and the distress and 
inconvenience that this has caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman