DRN-4141719
The complaint
Ms H has complained that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund the money she lost 
to a third-party scam. 
What happened
Between 1 September 2022 and 30 September 2022, Ms H sent a total of £1,740 spread 
over several smaller transactions (of values ranging between £141 and £465) to a business 
(I will refer to as S) that she believed to be legitimate at the time, but which later turned out 
to be a scam. The payments were supposedly refundable fees she needed to pay to enrol in 
a job which required her to write hotel reviews.
On 1 October 2022, Ms H told Wise shed been the victim of a scam. Wise managed to 
recall some of Ms Hs money from the beneficiary banks but only £136.54 remained as the 
funds had already been removed the scammer. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He felt the transactions werent large enough 
to trigger concerns with the bank. This was a new account there was nothing for Wise to 
compare the transactions against and so he said they couldnt be considered unusual.
Ms H felt the bank told us that something was not true. She said the bank told us that shed 
not been in contact with the scammer, and she sent us screen shots of her communications. 
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear Ms H has been the victim of a scam. But having thought very 
carefully about everything Ive come to the same outcome as the Investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that in circumstances such as Ms Hs, 
an account that is later found to have been utilised fraudulently doesnt automatically entitle 
the victim (who was tricked into sending funds to that account) to a refund of their losses. I 
could only direct Wise to refund Ms Hs loss if Im satisfied it reasonably failed to prevent it or 
did something wrong where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund.
Wise is an electronic money issuer (EMI), not a bank or building society. EMIs are set up 
with the purpose of sending and receiving money, including internationally and in different 
currencies. With that in mind, Ive considered Wises actions when monitoring the accounts 
operation. And the adequacy of its response when notified Ms H was the victim of a scam.
Contrary to Ms Hs concerns about what she believes Wise has told us  I dont think there is 
any dispute that Ms H has been the victim of a scam. I appreciate she was contacted several 
times by the scammer and have reviewed the messages she has sent. I dont think this 
changes the outcome here.
It is also accepted that Ms H authorised the scam payments from her Wise account. So, 
although she didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of her account, Ms H is presumed liable for 
her loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a 
valid payment instruction has been received, Wises obligation is to follow the instructions 
that she provides. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank or EMI like Wise to take additional steps or make additional checks before 
processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. 
I agree with our Investigator, and I am satisfied Wise didnt miss an opportunity to prevent 
the payments. Ive reviewed the statements for the account and taking into consideration the 
nature of the account and its expected use I dont think that Ms Hs payments crediting the 
account, nor the spending of those funds would have given Wise cause for concern in a way 
that Id say it ought to have intervened. The payments were relatively small (although I do 
appreciate altogether this is a lot of money for Ms H) and they are spread out over the 
month. And returns from S come into the account. So, I dont think the pattern of activity 
would have looked suspicious to Wise.
Wise cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. There is a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption 
to legitimate payments. If all payments such as the ones Ms H made were stopped while 
further enquiries were made, many legitimate payments would be stopped which would 
cause significant disruption and delay.
Taking into account good business practice and what I deem to be fair and reasonable, Wise
is generally expected to assist its customers in recovering funds lost in a scam. Ive 
considered Wises actions once it had been put on notice that Ms H was a victim of fraud on. 
Wise says it contacted the beneficiary banks as soon as it was made aware Ms H was a 
victim of fraud on 1 October 2022 and backlisted its own recipients but all of Ms Hs funds 
had been spent (except for £136.54 which was recovered and retuned to Ms H). This is not 
unusual as most scammers remove funds within hours.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman