DRN-3584657
The complaint
Mr D complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) acted irresponsibly 
by granting him a loan that was unaffordable for him. 
What happened
In mid-2020, Mr D took out a loan with Madison for £1,500. It was to be paid off over 24 
months with repayments set at £119.81, meaning that Mr D was required to pay back a total 
of £2,875.44.
Mr D later complained that the loan was unaffordable for him. He said Madison should have 
seen from his credit record that he had recently missed payments and had defaults, multiple 
credit cards and a County Court Judgment (CCJ). He said Madison hadnt asked him for 
proof of his income or expenses. He was struggling to keep up with repaying the loan and 
other debts.
Madison said it had asked Mr D a number of questions about his income and expenditure, 
personal circumstances and employment details when he applied for the loan. It also used 
reasonable average figures for income and expenditure and information from Mr Ds credit 
file. It said all the loan details (including the interest charge) were explained to Mr D and he 
was asked if the loan was affordable during the application process. Madison said it was 
satisfied it had acted correctly in approving Mr Ds loan application.
Mr D remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ds concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought the checks Madison had carried out were proportionate. She concluded that the 
information Mr D had provided on his application, along with what appeared on Madisons 
credit check, indicated that the lending was affordable.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view. He said the rent figure on his loan application 
was wrong and Madison should have checked. He didnt think Madison should have 
provided the loan when a CCJ was showing on his credit file. He said he was in around 
£30,000 of debt overseas and this was in place during his loan application with Madison. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Madison to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr D could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner.
  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Madison to think only about 
the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the repayments 
wouldnt cause Mr D undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him.  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Madison gathered information from Mr D before it agreed the loan and also checked his 
credit file. On his application Mr D said he had a monthly income of £1,853. The application 
form says Mr D was a council tenant paying rent of £330.79. Theres no information about 
Mr Ds outgoings.
Madison says it used credit expenditure amounts from Mr Ds credit file and used reasonable 
average figures for Mr Ds general expenditure when assessing the affordability of the 
lending.
Mr Ds credit file showed he was committed to monthly repayments of £317 for two loans 
with a total balance of £14,460. Mr D also had several credit cards with a total balance of 
£2,111 and credit limit of £3,348. This suggests Mr Ds existing credit commitments were 
less than £500 a month  allowing for him to pay a reasonable amount towards his credit 
card debt, even if he reached the maximum credit limits. 
After taking into account Mr Ds existing credit commitments, the rent declared on his 
application and the repayments for the Madison loan, Mr D would have been left with around 
£900 for other outgoings (food, bills, travel etc). So, I think it was reasonable for Madison to 
have concluded that the lending was affordable.
Mr D says he had around £30,000 of debt overseas when he took out the loan. However, I 
dont think Madison would have been aware of this as Mr D didnt declare it on his 
application and the debt didnt show on his credit file. 
Mr D says the rent amount on his application form was incorrect and believes Madison 
should have checked this. However, Mr D doesnt appear to have given any information 
about his living circumstances, other than being a council tenant. So, I dont think it would 
have been obvious to Madison that the figure given might have been too low. 
When Mr D took out the loan, he agreed to a declaration which said:
All the information about You and all other information is true and complete and that You 
realise that We rely on this information in agreeing to make a loan available to You.
So, I think Madison was entitled to rely on the information in Mr Ds application as being 
accurate.
I appreciate Mr D feels that Madison shouldnt have lent to him because of his CCJ. I can 
see evidence of this on the information Madison gathered from his credit file. And I can see 
there were a couple of defaults on there too. But the CCJ was made around three years 
before Mr D applied for the loan. And the most recent default was about two years before he 
took out the loan. It was up to Madison to decide the risks it was willing to take when 
extending the loan, as long as it took adequate steps to ensure the lending was affordable 
for Mr D. 
According to the information on his credit file, Mr D appeared to be up to date with his other 
credit commitments. I think Madisons checks were proportionate considering the amount  Mr D was borrowing and the duration of the loan. And Im not persuaded that the information 
on Mr Ds credit file should have prompted Madison to carry out further checks.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr D. But having considered everything, I think 
Madisons checks were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. And these 
suggested the loan was affordable. So, I dont think Madison acted irresponsibly when it 
granted Mr D the loan.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint, Id like to remind Madison of its duty to treat 
him positively and sympathetically if he is still having difficulty repaying the loan.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman