DRN-3818002
The Complaint
Mr N says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product on 13 
September 2009 (the Time of Sale). He also says BPF used an unauthorised credit broker 
to facilitate the credit he took to help pay for the purchase and failed to carry out a sound 
and proper credit assessment.
This complaint is in Mr Ns name only because the credit agreement that gives rise to the 
claims and complaint described above was only in his name. However, as the purchase that 
they relate to was in his name and that of his wife (Mrs N), I will refer to Mr and Mrs N at 
times during this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs N purchased membership of Club Heritage International (CHI)1 from 
Business A at the Time of Sale at the cost of £10,200. And they helped to pay for the 
purchase using running credit granted by BPF at the Time of Sale in Mr Ns name (the 
Credit Agreement).
The CHI Purchase Application (the Purchase Agreement) entered into by Mr and Mrs N 
was made at the Time of Sale between them and Business A  which was authorised to sell 
membership of CHI.
The statement of facts (the Statement of Facts) that accompanied the Purchase 
Agreement stated that Mr and Mrs N had contracted for a one-bedroom apartment during 
the Super Red season for 1 floating week each year at CHIs Silver Resort.
Unhappy with what happened at the Time of Sale, Mr N  using a professional 
representative (PR)  made the following claims and complaint on 8 August 2018 (the First 
Letter of Claim):
1. A claim for breach of contract under Section 75 of the CCA  for reasons that werent 
made clear at that time;
2. A claim for an unfair relationship under Section 140A of the CCA based, largely, it seems 
on Business As alleged failure to disclose that it was paid commission by BPF;
3. A claim for procuring [a] breach of fiduciary duty in line with the authorities of Wilson 
[2007] and McWilliam [2015];
4. A complaint about BPFs use of an unauthorised credit broker; and
5. A complaint about BPFs failure to carry out a sound and proper credit assessment.
PR acknowledged in the First Letter of Claim that the Credit Agreement was entered into 
more than six years before the claim was submitted to BPF. But it argued that Section 32 of 
the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA) extended the limitation period.
1 A holiday product operated by Heritage Resorts Limited.
It doesnt look like BPF responded to the First Letter of Claim with anything other than a 
number of holding letters  the last of which was dated 18 March 2019.
On 1 July 2019, a complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service by PR on 
Mr Ns behalf. The Complaint Form repeated much of what the First Letter of Claim had to 
say. But it did say that the relationship between Mr N and BPF was unfair because of the 
decision BPF made to lend to him and because of the pressure he was put under by 
Business A.
Accompanying that referral was a letter (the Second Letter of Claim) from PR adding to the 
allegations that had already been made  arguing that there had been a breach of the:
Consumer Credit Directive applicable to credit agreements entered into on or after 1 
February 2011  specifically paragraphs 2.17, 3.24 and 3.25.
Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (the CPUT Regulations)  
specifically Regulations 3, 5, 6 and 7 along with paragraph 4.8 in Schedule 1.
On notifying BPF of the complaint, it argued that any claim for misrepresentation and an
unfair relationship was likely to have been out of time under the LA. It also said that the
Financial Ombudsman Service had already dealt with a complaint from Mr N about BPFs
handling of a claim in relation to the holiday product in question.
BPF provided an investigator with a letter it got in September 2015 in which a different 
professional representative to PR (which Ill refer to as PR2) made a claim under Section 75 
because its client (Mr N) believed that the holiday product in question had been [mis-sold]/ 
misrepresented because of the following breaches:
No person may accept any consideration from the consumer before the end of the
withdrawal period in relation to the contract.
A trader must not offer an opportunity to enter into a regulated contract to a 
consumer at a promotion or sales event unless it clearly indicates the commercial 
purpose and key information is made available.
Before entering into a regulated contract a trader must draw the attention of the
consumer to the following matters  a right of withdrawal under the contract, the 
length of the withdrawal period, the prohibition on advance consideration during the 
withdrawal period.
PR2 also said that it was aware that Business A had been investigated by the Spanish 
judicial system and ordered to give some of its clients a refund because it was found guilty of 
financial mis-practice. PR2 then went on to compare that finding to an order the 
Office of Fair Trading imposed on a number of similar traders.BPF also submitted a copy of an adjudicators assessment  which dealt with a complaint 
about BPFs handling of the Section 75 claim that had been made in 2015. On my reading of 
that assessment, it made the following findings:
1. That Mr N had knowingly agreed to enter into the Credit Agreement.
2. While Business A may have become aggressive at the Time of Sale, Mr N was 
provided with his cancellation rights under the Credit Agreement and so could have 
cancelled after making his purchase from Business A.
As a result of that assessment, the complaint the Financial Ombudsman Service dealt with in 
2015 appears to have been resolved without an ombudsmans decision.
This complaint was then looked at by an investigator who, having considered the information 
available, came to the view that he could only consider Mr Ns Section 140A claim because 
the Financial Ombudsman Service had already considered what appeared to be the same 
complaint in relation to a misrepresentation claim under Section 75. Having done that, the 
investigator concluded that the Section 140A claim was made out of time under the LA. And 
he wasnt persuaded that the finance from BPF had been arranged by an unauthorised 
credit broker.
Mr N disagreed because he continued to have concerns about the steps taken by BPF to 
ensure he could afford the credit extended to him. He also made the point that he and Mrs N 
had been bullied and coerced into the purchase by Business A.
So, as an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 7 October 2022. And, in summary, I thought the 
claim under Section 140A of the CCA had been made out of time under the LA. I wasnt 
persuaded that a claim for breach of contract under Section 75 of the CCA should succeed. 
And I also wasnt persuaded, by the information available, to uphold the complaint for 
reasons relating to the credit broker and BPFs decision to lend to Mr N.
BPF had nothing further to add. PR disagreed and, along with its reasons for doing so 
(which, insofar as they relate to what I said in my provisional findings, Ive summarised 
below), it provided an email from the FCA that it says demonstrates that the Credit 
Agreement entered into by Mr N was arranged by a broker that wasnt authorised to carry 
out that activity:
The unfair relationship between Mr N and BPF continues along with his liability to pay 
maintenance fees year in year out. 
The high-pressure marketing process, the bundling of the holiday product with finance 
and the complexity of the product (which Mr N didnt understand until years later), 
including unfair contract terms in relation to the products ongoing costs, lend credibility to 
his complaint about the relationship between him and BPF being unfair.
Mr N is still indirectly repaying what he borrowed from BPF because he borrowed against 
his house in order avoid paying the higher interest under the Credit Agreement. As such, 
there remains an unfair relationship between him and BPF.The fact that the holiday product was for life was unlawful  as declared by the Spanish 
Supreme Court:
This law implemented into Spanish law the European Directive 94/47/EC on 
timesharing. Currently, Spanish law is contained in Law 4/2012, of 6 July implementing 
Directive 2008/122/EC. In particular, Law 42/1998 required that contracts had a 
maximum duration of 50 years (Arts. 1.6 and 3.1). According to Art.1.7 of the same law, 
contracts of longer duration were null and void. Notwithstanding this, Law 42/1998 also 
contained some transitory rules on the adaptation of [pre-existing] rights of longer 
duration. Moreover, transitional rule N. 3 of Law 42/1998 created a nullity action for [pre-
existent] situations not adapted to the law in a two [year] period.
As for the deadline for responses to my PD has now been and gone, the complaint has 
come back to me to consider for a Final Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I still dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
Under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a 
precondition to claims under those provisions. As I said in my PD, BPF didnt dispute that 
Mr N entered into such an agreement. And it still doesnt dispute that now.
The Section 75 Claim for Breach of Contract
As Ive said before, on my reading of this complaint, the only Section 75 claim made by Mr N 
in August 2018 was for a breach of contract rather than misrepresentation. And as a 
complaint about BPFs handling of such a claim doesnt appear to have been dealt with 
before by the Financial Ombudsman Service (because such a claim doesnt look like it was 
made before August 2018), I still cant see why it would be inappropriate to consider it here.However, it remains the case that very little has been said and/or provided in relation to the 
suggestion that there had/has been a breach of contract. So, its still not clear why the 
assertion was and is being made. And as Ive said before, without knowing what specific 
rights Mr N thinks he had/has lost, I cant say that theres been a breach of contract that BPF 
is likely to be jointly liable for.
The Credit Broking
PR alleged in the First Letter of Claim that the Credit Agreement Mr N entered into was
arranged by an unauthorised credit broker  relying, it said, on documentation supplied by 
Mr N that clearly states that the finance was brokered by Heritage Resorts and Hotels/Club 
Heritage International/Heritage Resort Sales Limited.
PR also said the FCA have confirmed they hold no record located in reference to 
registration with themselves or the OFT.
In response to my PD, PR provided a copy of an email it got from the FCA on 30 May 2018 
in which it said the following:
The Financial Services Register is a public record that shows details of firms, individuals 
and other bodies that are, or have been, regulated by the FCA. I have searched the register 
for Heritage Resorts and Hotels and Heritage Sales Ltd and I can confirm these firms are not 
authorised or regulated by the FCA; these firms do not hold [] permissions for consumer 
credit activity or introducing.
So, PR argued and continues to argue that the Credit Agreement entered into by Mr N was 
unenforceable.
However, as I suggested in my PD, the business2 referred to as the credit broker in the First 
Letter of Claim (as above) wasnt specifically named on the Credit Agreement as the 
business that arranged the Agreement. 
I acknowledge that Heritage Resorts was referred to as the name of the retailer on the 
Credit Agreement. Its possible that means it was Heritage Resorts Limited that brokered the 
Agreement. But I dont find that probable. After all, Heritage Resorts was only referred to as 
the retailer on the Agreement rather than the credit intermediary  which, in my view, is likely 
to reflect the fact that Mr and Mrs N had purchased, from Business A, membership of a 
holiday product operated by Heritage Resorts Limited. And as Business A was already in the 
position to arrange the Credit Agreement because it looks like it held a Consumer Credit 
Licence at the Time of Sale, in the absence of any persuasive evidence to suggest 
otherwise, it seems unlikely to me that Heritage Resorts Limited would have stepped into a 
sale with which it doesnt appear to have had much if any direct involvement to broker the 
relevant finance when it doesnt look like it held a Consumer Credit Licence.   
So, as PR still hasnt provided any supporting evidence to reliably corroborate its assertion 
that it was Heritage Resorts Limited that brokered the finance in question rather than 
Business A when (1) it was with Business A that Mr and Mrs N contracted for the purchase 
of membership of CHI rather than Heritage Resorts Limited and (2) Business A held a 
Consumer Credit Licence at the Time of Sale, given the information available, I still think its 
more likely than not that the Credit Agreement was brokered by Business A.
2 Of the names referred to as the credit broker in the First Letter of Claim, only Heritage Resort Sales Limited looks like a 
business as Club Heritage International was the holiday product that Mr and Mrs N became members of and Heritage Resorts 
and Hotels strikes me as a trading name.The Lending Decision
The suggestion in the Complaint Form that BPF didnt carry out the right checks when it lent 
to Mr N was framed as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 
140A. But, as Ive explained below, that claim was likely to have been made out of time 
under the LA.
Lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question was an activity
covered by the Financial Ombudsman Services Compulsory Jurisdiction at the Time of Sale. 
But it remains the case that very little has been said about this particular allegation. And as I 
said in my PD, even if I were to find that BPF failed to do everything it should have when it 
agreed to lend (and I make no such finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was 
unaffordable for Mr N before also concluding that he lost out as a result. As I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that was the case, I still dont think this is a reason to uphold this 
complaint given its circumstances.
The Section 140A Claim for an Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr N and BPF was 
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the Credit Agreement  which it does.
BPF says that the fairness of a relationship has to be determined at the point at which the 
relationship ended  which, on this occasion, it says was when Mr N repaid what he 
borrowed from BPF to pay for the purchase in question rather than when his account was 
closed on 26 January 2013 as per BPFs internal records. And as Mr N did that on 18 March 
2010, BPF says that he had to make his claim no later than 18 March 2016 in order to be in 
time for the purpose of the relevant provision of the LA.
So, as Mr N made his claim in August 2018, BPF argues that it was out of time under the LA. 
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is governed 
by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is six years from 
the date on which the cause of action accrued.
In Canada Square Operations Ltd v Potter [2021], the Court of Appeal set out how the 
provisions of the LA apply to the unfair relationship provisions. In so doing, it relied (at 
paragraph 26) on the analysis of Mr Leggatt QC (as he was then) in Patel v Patel [2009].
As Mr Leggatt QC explained:
"The critical question is: what is the relevant date at which the fairness or otherwise of the 
relationship has to be determined? In principle, it seems to me that the determination should 
be made having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters 
up to the time of making the determination. This means that if the relationship between the 
creditor and the debtor has ended, the determination should be made at the date when the 
relationship ended; and if the relationship is still ongoing, the determination should be made 
as at the time of the trial".
The upshot of this dicta is that the time limit to make a Section 140A claim, for the purpose 
of the LA, only begins to run when the relationship between the creditor and debtor comes to 
an end.However, as I said in my PD, the Court of Appeal more recently considered how the 
limitation period applies to unfair relationship claims  this time in Smith and Burrell v Royal 
Bank of Scotland plc [2021] [S&B v RBS [2021]). That case concerned the claim that there 
was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship due to the levels of commission paid as a result of 
a Payment Protection Insurance policy (PPI) taken to protect the repayments on a credit 
card.
The Court took the view that the relevant date when assessing unfairness didnt always and 
necessarily have to be the date when the debtor-creditor relationship ended (assuming that 
the relationship had ended by the time a court considered the matter). The Court thought 
that a relationship could change over time  being subject to periods of fairness and periods 
of unfairness. And for that reason, an earlier period of unfairness may not mean that the 
relationship is unfair at a later date.
As a result, Birss LJ held that the relevant relationship up until the date of the last PPI 
repayment was unfair. But once those sums had been repaid and no liability remained, the 
fact that the defendant continued to leave claimants in ignorance of the commission did not 
justify a finding that the unfairness continued, particularly when the credit agreement alone 
was not unfair. And as the claimants had failed to allege or prove that any economic effect or 
consequence of the PPI agreement persisted after the relevant sums had been repaid, the 
Court held that the unfair relationship came to an end when those sums had been repaid.
It seems to me, therefore, that while S&B v RBS [2021] leaves the longstops3 in
Patel v Patel [2009] untouched, it can now be argued that a limitation period may start at an
earlier date. In other words, the limitation period can be said to start when the credit relating 
to a related agreement has been paid off, rather than only when the relevant credit 
agreement is formally brought to an end and the entire debtor-creditor relationship ends.
But that isnt necessarily the case if there is continuing financial detriment and/or ongoing 
contractual obligations that continue to render a debtor-creditor relationship unfair. And I say 
that because of what Birss LJ had to say in paragraph 68:
The consequences of that unfairness in the present case will have included accruing
a liability to make payments required by the PPI agreement and paying those sums. If
the customer still owed sums under the credit agreement which had arisen from the PPI
agreement but were outstanding even after the PPI agreement itself had ended, then in such
a case the unfairness would still exist at that later stage. However once all sums due had
been paid and no liability remained, the fact that the bank continued to leave the customer
in ignorance of the commission well after the customer's liability to make any
payments has ceased, does not justify the conclusion the judge reached, all the more so
when the credit agreement alone, absent the PPI agreement, was not itself unfair. The
relationship was unfair in January 2000 when Ms Smith entered into the PPI agreement in
ignorance of the commission and was unfair up to April 2006 because Ms Smith was still
obliged to and was in fact making payments to RBS of sums which only arose because of
that PPI agreement. However the relationship changed after April 2006 because the PPI
agreement ended. There was no case, alleged or proved, that any economic effect or
consequence of the PPI agreement for Ms Smith persisted after April 2006 or existed in
2015. [my emphasis added]
3 These are either the end of the relevant relationship or the date of trial.So, while S&B v RBS [2021] doesnt specifically consider the situation in which a debt is 
repaid but a burdensome related agreement survives, I can see an argument for saying in 
such a case that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the credit 
agreement taken with the related agreement continues to be unfair for so long as the debtor 
continues to be afflicted with fresh financial liabilities and/or contractual obligations, which 
they ought never to have assumed, because of the related agreement  unless, of course, 
the relationship between the debtor and creditor ended at an earlier date because the credit 
agreement was formally brought to an end.
With that said, when the allegations of unfairness vary, its more difficult to establish 
precisely when the alleged unfairness is likely to have ended and, in turn, when the relevant 
limitation period started and ended. And for that reason, its necessary to carry out a factual 
analysis of the relevant relationship and its fairness first before considering limitation. So, 
thats what Ive done.
Was there any ongoing unfairness after 18 March 2010?
When PR first made a Section 140A claim on Mr Ns behalf (in the First Letter of Claim), it 
said the following under the heading Unfair Relationship:
It is clear that the unfairness of the agreement, together with the related agreement with the 
Timeshare Owner, falls into two broad and distinct categories.
Firstly, there is the issue of the commission []
But the First Letter of Claim didnt set out what the second category was. So, the claim at 
that time was based, in my view, entirely on Business As failings in relation to the alleged 
payment of commission to it by BPF.
However, as Ive already said, the Second Letter of Claim added to the allegations that had 
already been made by PR. And as it was after the First and Second Letters of Claim that 
BPF set out its position on Mr Ns claims and this complaint, Ive considered all of the 
allegations that make up his Section 140A claim when carrying out the factual analysis Ive 
described above.
As I said in my PD, once Mr N repaid in full what he drew down from his £20,000 credit limit 
(which he did on 18 March 2010), such that no liability remained under the Credit 
Agreement, even if BPF had paid commission that wasnt disclosed or adequately explained 
to Mr N when it should have been, I think a court is likely to conclude that any unfair 
relationship as a result of that payment (if there ever was one4) came to an end when Mr N 
settled his outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement.
And I say this because Im still not persuaded a court is likely to find that there was any 
continuing unfairness between Mr N and BPF given the facts and circumstances of this 
complaint. 
4 I havent been provided with any evidence to persuade me that any commission paid by BPF was, in practice, likely to have 
risked making relationship between it and Mr N unfair under Section 140A.Given the information available, I still cant see any ongoing or recurrent contractual 
obligations, whether or not they were financial in nature, that were objectionable and likely to 
have contributed to an unfair relationship between Mr N and BPF after 18 March 2010. I 
acknowledge, as I did in my PD, that Mr N had to pay annual maintenance fees as a 
member of the holiday club in question. But I still havent seen anything to demonstrate that 
those were likely to have been governed and/or operated in a way that was and/or could be 
unfair.
On my reading of S&B v RBS [2021], its possible that even perfectly reasonable contractual
obligations could have contributed to an ongoing unfair relationship. But the allegations that
are said to have given rise to an unfair relationship on this occasion still arent accompanied 
by supporting evidence or detailed recollections from Mr N that are persuasive  while some 
of the allegations are difficult to square with the testimony Ive seen. So, based on what Ive
seen so far, Im not persuaded that simply being party to the Purchase Agreement was a
source of continuing unfairness either.
I have considered PRs argument about the Credit Agreement being voidable because the 
holiday product was unlawful. But PR hasnt provided any evidence to persuade me that the 
contract entered into by Mr N was/is to be construed in accordance with Spanish law. And 
even if it was/is, PR also hasnt explained, with reference to the facts and circumstances of 
this complaint, why the judgment in question can be applied directly to the question as to 
whether the Purchase Agreement was/is voidable  thus rendering the Credit Agreement 
voidable.5
As a result, once Mr N settled his outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement on
18 March 2010, I think its unlikely a court would find that the relationship between him and
BPF continued to be unfair after that date.
The Limitation Act 1980
For the reasons set out above, I still think BPF is entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to 
this claim given its timing. After all, Mr Ns asking for a refund of the payments he made as a
result of his purchase. That means Section 9 of the LA applies to the claim  giving him six
years in which to make it. But as he didnt do that until August 2018, I think it was made out 
of time under that Act.
Grounds to Extend Time
PR argued in the First Letter of Claim that Mr N had more time to make his Section 140A
claim under Section 32 of the LA because the payment of commission by BPF was 
deliberately concealed.
But had such a payment been made, I still havent seen anything to suggest BPF would 
have breached a duty by making it  nor have I seen anything to suggest it was under a 
regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in the circumstances. And as I 
havent been provided with anything to persuade me that any commission paid by BPF was 
likely to have put it on notice that not disclosing the payment(s) to Mr N risked making their 
debtor-creditor relationship unfair under Section 140A, Im not persuaded that theres a 
reason why time might be extended in keeping with the provisions of the LA.
5 As lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question was an activity covered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Services Compulsory Jurisdiction at the Time of Sale, if the Purchase Agreement was null and void for the reason 
PR suggests, such that it was voidable, I acknowledge that may have implications for the Credit Agreement that could be 
considered separately to Mr Ns Section 140A claim. But as the allegation wasnt put to BPF when the claim and complaint in 
question were first made to it, it wouldnt be appropriate to consider the assertion as a separate cause of complaint before BPF 
has had the chance to do so first.My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman