DRN-3449988
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Secure Trust Bank PLC trading as Moneyway (STB) unfairly defaulted 
and then terminated her hire purchase agreement.
 
What happened
Mrs R entered a hire purchase agreement for a used car in June 2019. The agreement was 
financed by STB and required Mrs R to make 59 monthly payments of £133.42 and a final 
monthly payment of £143.42. 
In February 2020 Mrs R missed her normal monthly payment. STB wrote to Mrs R about the 
missed payment on 28 February 2020, 11, 18 and 25 March 2020, and on 6, 14, and 20 
April 2020, alongside text message reminders that they sent to Mrs R asking her to get in 
touch with them. 
Mrs R made her normal monthly payments in March and April 2020, but in May 2020 Mrs R 
missed her monthly payment, and STB sent her a default notice on 28 May 2020, setting out 
that the arrears of £266.84 needed to be paid in full by 14 June 2020.
STB wrote to Mrs R on 23 June 2020 alongside sending text messages asking her to contact 
them following expiry of the default notice. 
STB terminated Mrs Rs agreement and wrote to her to confirm this in June 2020. They set 
out Mrs Rs options in terms of voluntarily terminating the agreement or having the vehicle 
repossessed. 
Mrs R called STB on 2 July 2020. She told them shed received the termination letter, but no 
other communication from them about her account. Mrs R and STB came to an arrangement 
for Mrs R to pay £183.42 a month for five months, followed by a payment of £150.26 in 
January 2021 in order to clear the arrears. 
Mrs R said she thought the increased payments would be taken in one direct debit, and so 
didnt think anything more of it. STB say the arrangement was for Mrs Rs normal direct debit 
to be taken, and for the extra £50 a month to be paid by Mrs R separately. They say they 
emailed Mrs R their bank details in line with this. 
The additional payment wasnt taken by STB or made by Mrs R and so the payment 
arrangement was broken. 
STB sent Mrs R a notice of sums in arrears for £266.84 in September 2020 and tried to 
contact Mrs R about the payment arrangement. STB arranged for Mrs Rs vehicle to be 
repossessed in January 2021. 
Mrs R contacted STB when she received contact from the agents arranging to collect the 
vehicle. She agreed to clear the arrears but asked to speak with a manager about a fee that 
STB had placed on her account for the vehicle collection. 
STB say they tried to call Mrs R but werent able to speak with her, and so the repossession 
was set to continue. Mrs R says she didnt receive a call from STB. 
Mrs R called STB on 3 February 2021 and completed an income and expenditure 
assessment, but STB told her they wouldnt enter another payment arrangement because 
the previous one had been broken, and shed need to pay the full balance in order to keep 
the car. The car was repossessed on 4 February 2021.
Mrs R complained to STB in February 2021. In summary, she said she wasnt happy with the 
default and termination of her agreement, the repossession, missed payments on her credit 
file, or the service shed received. 
STB sent Mrs R their final response to her complaint in April 2021. In summary, they said 
theyd tried to contact Mrs R a number of times about the missed payments on her account 
prior to issuing the default notice, theyd received no contact and so the agreement was 
terminated. They said the payment arrangement was broken, and so the vehicle was placed 
for repossession, at which point Mrs R wouldve needed to make a full payment to clear the 
balance to prevent it going ahead. They said Mrs Rs credit file didnt show four missed 
payments, it showed that her account was one or two payments in arrears for four months 
before it was defaulted. They didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs R brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said, in 
summary, that she wasnt treated fairly or sympathetically by STB, the default shouldnt have 
been recorded, the information reported to her credit file wasnt right, STB had failed to take 
the additional payment by direct debit when this was confirmed in writing, the vehicle was 
repossessed when a payment arrangement had been agreed, the vehicle was sold before 
the complaint was answered, the proceeds from the sale werent correctly applied to the 
account, the repossession agents were threatening, STB didnt make promised call backs, 
they didnt consider any impact of the coronavirus pandemic (covid-19) on her and she 
wasnt provided with the documents once the car was sold, meaning she remained 
responsible for it until a log book request was made in September 2021. 
Our investigator gave her view that STB had sent Mrs R letters about the missed payments, 
and no payment or contact had been made. She said the agreement allowed for termination 
under the circumstances and so she thought the termination was fair. She said it was likely 
Mrs Rs credit file reporting was correct and she wouldnt have been eligible for covid-19 
support. 
Our investigator said she thought it was likely the payment arrangement made in July 2020 
was for Mrs R to make additional payments and not for these to be collected by direct debit, 
and STB had attempted to contact Mrs R a number of times when these payments werent 
made, so she thought the repossession was fairly instructed in line with the agreement. 
Our investigator also said that she hadnt seen any evidence that the proceeds of the sale 
were applied incorrectly to Mrs Rs account, she hadnt suffered any impact as a result of 
any post sale documentation, and she said Mrs R would need to complain directly to the 
repossession agents if she was unhappy with their conduct. 
Mrs R didnt agree. She said the default was unlawful as she hadnt missed three payments 
and her relationship STB hadnt broken down. Mrs R said if shed been treated fairly, she 
wouldve been eligible for covid-19 support, she didnt receive any call backs and theres no 
evidence they were ever made, the payment arrangement shouldve increased her direct 
debit and the letter STB sent confirms this, and she was told she could clear the arrears to 
stop the repossession, but she wasnt happy to pay the repossession fee. When she queried this the agreement was rescinded and she was told shed have to clear the full balance to 
stop the repossession. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Mrs R was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Both parties have provided a good deal of evidence, so Ive had to summarise things in this 
decision. The rules of our service allow me to do this, but I want to assure the parties, if I 
dont mention every single point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about 
it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. However, Im going to 
concentrate here on what I consider is key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
overall.
Default and termination
Mrs R has said that her agreement shouldnt have been defaulted, because she didnt ever 
miss three consecutive payments, and the relationship between her and STB hadnt broken 
down. 
The agreement requires Mrs R to make a payment each month. It says: 
Each instalment is due and payable on the same day of each consecutive month 
commencing one month from the date of the agreement. 
In respect of missing payments, the agreement says: 
If you miss an instalment, you will incur extra charges, your credit record may be affected, 
and you may find it harder to borrow again from us or another lender. We may also take 
legal action against you to take back the vehicle
The terms of the agreement go on to say: 
It is essential that you pay all instalments in full and on time. 
So, I think its clear that Mrs R was responsible for paying each of her monthly payments in 
full and on time. In not making her payment in February 2020, Mrs R breached the terms of 
the agreement, and her agreement fell into arrears. 
Where its customers are facing financial difficulty, STB have a responsibility to treat them 
with due consideration and forbearance. I can see that STB wrote to Mrs R on seven 
occasions about her missed payment and sent her a number of text messages asking her to 
contact them to discuss the arrears on her account between 28 February 2020 and 20 April 
2020. I cant see that Mrs R contacted STB during this time. Although Mrs R made her normal monthly payments in March and April 2020, I dont think 
this is enough to say that the relationship between her and STB hadnt broken down. Mrs R 
had missed a payment, and STB had tried a number of times to contact her about this, but 
no payment or contact had been received and her account remained in arrears. 
So, when Mrs R missed her monthly payment in May 2020, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for STB to have issued a default notice. Theyd been unable to contact Mrs R to come to an 
arrangement to repay the arrears for February 2020, and another payment had been 
missed. 
In its Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies, the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says in relation to 
payment arrangements, a default would not normally be registered unless the terms of a 
payment arrangement are broken. I consider this to be representative of good industry 
practice. And as a minimum would expect a lender to act in accordance with these principles 
when deciding whether to default a consumers agreement. 
In this case, I think it was appropriate for STB to report a default to Mrs R's agreement as 
she broke the terms of her payment arrangement. And so, STB was entitled to register that 
the agreement had defaulted as per the ICO guidance.
Section 15 of the agreement Our right to end the agreement and our liability upon 
termination sets out the following:
We will assume that you refuse to comply with this agreement, and we will be entitled to 
end it after giving you the notice required by law, if you are behind with the monthly 
instalments by an amount which is equal to or greater than two monthly instalments.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) sets out in section 87(1) that a default notice is 
necessary before the creditor is entitled to terminate the agreement or recover the goods.  
Section 88 of the CCA sets out that the default notice must:
Specify the nature of the alleged breach 
If the breach is capable of remedy what action is required to remedy it and the date 
before which that action is to be taken
If the breach is not capable of remedy, the sum (if any) required to be paid as 
compensation for the breach, and the date before which it is to be repaid. 
Im satisfied that the default notice that STB issued was in line with the CCA requirements. 
STB didnt hear from Mrs R after the default notice expired, and so the agreement was 
terminated in June 2020. Im satisfied that the termination was completed in line with the 
terms of the agreement. 
Mrs R told STB that she received the termination notice, but no other communication from 
STB. Ive reviewed the various letters sent by STB to Mrs R about the missed payments and 
the default. They were all sent to the same address as the termination notice, and so Im 
satisfied that they were correctly sent. 
Support for financial difficulty
Mrs R has said that if shed been treated fairly by STB, she wouldve been eligible for 
tailored covid-19 related support. As Ive set out above, STB have a responsibility to treat consumers in financial difficulty with 
due consideration and forbearance. Im satisfied that STB did this by contacting Mrs R by 
post and text message on a number of occasions to try and assist her with repaying her 
arrears before the agreement was terminated. 
If Mrs R had contacted STB prior to the agreement being terminated, I wouldve expected 
them to have considered whether Mrs R was eligible for tailored covid-19 support. But Mrs R 
didnt get in touch with STB until after the agreement was terminated, so STB couldnt offer 
this support as the agreement was no longer active. 
When Mrs R contacted STB after the agreement was terminated, they agreed to enter a 
payment arrangement with Mrs R and allow her to keep the vehicle with monthly payments 
continuing, so Im satisfied that they did treat her fairly and with forbearance when she told 
them about her financial difficulties.  
The first payment arrangement
STB said that when they entered a payment arrangement with Mrs R it was for her original 
monthly payment to be made by direct debit, and for an additional £50 a month to be paid 
manually by Mrs R in order to clear the two months of arrears. 
Mrs R said she believed the original payment and the additional payment would all be taken 
in one direct debit by STB. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The notes made by STB during the call with Mrs R to set up the payment arrangement 
suggest that they told her theyd send her their bank details via email for her to set up a 
standing order. Ive seen the email that STB sent to Mrs R after setting up the payment 
arrangement, which said they were sending her their bank details as requested. And when 
Mrs R called STB in January 2021, she told them that she thought shed set up a standing 
order for the additional payment and hadnt realised that it hadnt been taken. 
Where payments are made in addition to usual monthly payments in order to clear arrears, 
these being made separately to the direct debit instruction in place is in line with what Id 
usually expect to see. 
All things considered, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the arrangement 
between Mrs R and STB was for the original payment amount to be taken by direct debit, 
and the additional payment to clear the arrears to be made separately by Mrs R. 
Im satisfied that STB told Mrs R about the importance of keeping to the payment 
arrangement, and so I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mrs R to check the payments 
shed made between August 2020 and January 2021 to make sure they were correct, but I 
cant see that she contacted STB during this time. However, I can see that STB attempted to 
contact Mrs R to let her know she hadn't made the additional payments and the ongoing 
consequences of not making them. 
As the arrangement between STB and Mrs R to repay the arrears had been broken, Im 
satisfied that STBs decision to instruct the repossession of Mrs Rs vehicle in January 2021 
was fair. Refused second payment arrangement in January 2021
Mrs R has said that when she called STB in January 2021 there was an agreement that she 
could clear the arrears in order to stop the repossession of her vehicle, but she wasnt happy 
with the repossession fee of £264 that STB had added to her account because the vehicle 
hadnt yet been taken. 
Mrs R said she was waiting for a manager to call her back about this fee, but she didnt 
receive a call. Then, when she contacted STB again, they told her shed need to pay the full 
balance and not just clear the arrears in order to stop the repossession. 
I can see that the call on 21 January 2021 was ended as Mrs R wasnt happy with the fee for 
the repossession. When Mrs R spoke to STB again on 25 January 2021, they told her they 
wouldnt enter another payment arrangement and the full balance would need to be paid in 
order to stop the repossession. 
Whilst I can appreciate that Mrs R wanted to keep her vehicle, and wanted to discuss the 
repossession fee with STB, Im not persuaded that they wouldve entered another payment 
arrangement with her even if she were able to discuss her case with a manager in between 
these phone calls. STB had already instructed the vehicle for repossession, and Ive set out 
above why I think their decision to take this action was fair in the circumstances. So, I dont 
think they acted unfairly by refusing to enter an agreement with Mrs R at this stage. 
Credit file
Mrs R has said that her credit file is showing four missed payments, when she only missed 
two, and so shed like STB to correct this. 
STB say they reported the two missed payments to Mrs Rs credit file, and this will show that 
she was one to two months in arrears for four months prior to the account being defaulted. 
I havent seen any evidence that STB have reported four missed payments to Mrs Rs credit 
file, and Im persuaded by their explanation that Mrs Rs credit file shows that her account 
was in arrears by one to two payments, for four months, prior to the default of the account. 
This is in line with what Id expect to see when a payment has been missed and remains 
unpaid for a period of time. 
Vehicle documents
Mrs R has said that her vehicle was sold by STB in February 2021, but she was contacted 
by the DVLA in September 2021 about an application for a logbook, and so she wouldve 
been liable for the vehicle up until this point. STB say changing the registered keeper is the 
responsibility of the new owner. 
I appreciate that Mrs R wouldve been concerned about remaining responsible for the 
vehicle. Its not clear who STB sold the vehicle to, or when a change of registered keeper 
took place. But Mrs R wasnt held liable for the vehicle, so Im not asking STB to do anything 
more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman