DRN-2646195
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has caused delays in dealing with a 
claim made under his landlord insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for the following 
reasons:
AXA says it cant give Mr S an answer in relation to the claim unless and until Mr S 
provides further clarification about his previous loss of rent claim. But Mr S has now 
withdrawn his loss of rent claim, so I dont think its fair for AXA to keep delaying 
matters for this reason.
AXA has said the delays in handling the claim are due to Mr Ss repeated failure to 
respond to AXA about discrepancies in the loss of rent claim. But I dont agree that 
the delays were caused by Mr S. I think Mr S has taken steps to progress matters, 
such as withdrawing the loss of rent claim and referring a complaint to our service. 
So I dont think AXA can fairly say Mr S has walked away from the claim.
AXA is under an obligation to give Mr S an answer in relation to the claim in a timely 
manner, even if responses to specific questions arent forthcoming. I consider a delay 
of over one year in deciding the claim unreasonable, since Mr S withdrew his loss of 
rent claim in March 2020. Once AXA became aware that its queries were continuing 
to go unanswered it should have made a decision on the claim on the basis of the 
information it had.
Putting things right
AXA should give Mr S an answer within a reasonable timeframe in relation to this claim and 
pay Mr S £300 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to him.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to put 
things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman