DRN-3149884
The complaint
 Mr M complains about two loans provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as
L2G, which he says were unaffordable.
 
What happened
 L2G provided Mr M with two loans. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Amount Total 
RepaidInstalments Repayment Current 
balance
1 10/10/2018 £250 £1019.52 18 56.64 Paid
2 20/03/2020 £250 £1028.52 18 57.14 Outstanding
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be partially upheld. He 
concluded that L2G didnt make a fair lending decision for loan 1. He said L2G would have 
seen that Mr M was making a significant payment to credit and it was likely the loan 
repayments were not sustainable.
L2G disagreed with our investigators view. It said it carried out proportionate checks and 
made fair lending decisions when it agreed to lend on each occasion.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When L2G lent to Mr M on both occasions the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
L2G was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ms creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
L2G had to consider both the risk to it that Mr M wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mr M of not being able to make these repayments. In 
particular, L2G had to consider Mr Ms ability to make repayments under the agreement as 
they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ms case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
If it did, did L2G then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks for loans 1 and 2?
I can see that on each occasion, L2G asked Mr M about his income and expenditure. It has 
told our service that it adjusted Mr Ms income and expenditure based on an online 
verification tool for his income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for 
expenditure. 
For loan 1, It reduced Mr Ms declared income from £1250 a month to £129.82 after verifying 
this. It then increased what Mr M says his expenditure was of £400, to £948.08, based on 
checks it carried out this included a credit search. It then added a 10% buffer for any 
fluctuations in spend for Mr M. It carried out the same checks when it agreed to loan 2. 
Again, it adjusted Mr Ms income by a similar amount. It then adjusted Mr Ms declared 
expenditure of £50 to £948.08 and added a buffer. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said about how it calculated Mr Ms disposable 
income each time it agreed to lend to him. I dont think its checks were proportionate for 
either of the two loans because there was a discrepancy between what Mr M said about his 
expenditure and what it says it could see through its checks each time. I dont think L2G 
should have accepted the loans knowing or having reason to suspect Mr M wasnt being 
truthful about his expenditure in each case. In both instances the discrepancy between what 
Mr M said his expenditure was and what L2G calculated it was, was wide. So, I think L2G 
should either have carried out further checks to see if there were good reasons for this, or its 
shouldnt have provided Mr M with either of the 2 loans. This leads me to think that L2G needed to take steps to verify on each occasion what Mr Ms actual monthly expenditure 
was. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr M with his loans were reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mr M 
would need to meet his loan repayments over 18 months with regards to both loans.
Did L2G make a fair lending decision for loan 1?
Ive concluded the checks L2G carried out werent proportionate and that they needed to do 
more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks for loan 1, because I dont think L2G made a fair lending decision, based on what it 
had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the credit search results that L2G would have 
had in front of it, I can see that Mr M was already committed to quite a high proportion 
of credit repayment in relation to the income figure L2G was using in its assessment. 
This being the figure it had verified using an online verification tool.  
L2G would have been aware that Mr M would be paying £78.25 per month on 
minimum repayments for 2 credit cards along with interest on an overdraft. Then he 
would be paying £245 a month on another loan he took out in August 2018. So, with 
the addition of the repayment from this loan of £56.64, in total he would need to repay 
around £380 in credit repayments a month. This represented a large and significant 
part (more than 33%) of his income. 
Mr M was paying such a significant proportion of his monthly income on credit 
repayments that L2G ought to have realised it was unlikely that he would be able to 
sustainably repay his loan over the 18-month term. And, in these circumstances, L2G 
should reasonably have concluded that it was not fair to lend to Mr M.
So, I conclude based on what L2G had in front of it, it would have seen Mr M wouldnt have 
been able to make repayments in a sustainable way.  
What would L2G have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks for loan 2?
I need to now think about what L2G would have seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks for loan 2. Our investigator asked Mr M to provide his bank statements from 
around the time he applied for the loan, for a period of around three months. Im not 
suggesting here that this is the check that L2G should have done. But I think looking at his 
bank statements over a period such as three months would give me the best picture of 
what the lender should have seen.
Our service has not heard back from Mr M or his representatives about his statements from 
before and around when she took out the loan though. So, I havent been able to see what 
L2G would have most likely seen if it had carried out further checks. So, because of this, I 
am unable to safely conclude that Mr M was given a loan that was unaffordable for him. 
So, I conclude that L2G didnt make a fair lending decision when it agreed to loan 1. But I am 
unable to safely conclude that loan 2 was unaffordable for Mr M.As Mr M has been indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loan 1 that he 
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 
L2G did wrong.
So, I think L2G needs to put things right.
Putting things right
 In line with this Services approach, Mr M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for loan 1. With this in mind, L2G should:
add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of being given loan 1. 
The payments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr M was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr M to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ms credit file because of loan 1;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give Mr M 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 1 for the reasons set out 
above and require L2G Limited, to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman