DRN-3157988
The complaint
Mr B complains as trustee of a gift and a loan bond plan  managed by St. Jamess Place 
Wealth Management Plc (SJP)  about delays when he tried to make withdrawals. 
What happened
Mr B instructed SJP to withdraw all the funds from the gift and the loan bond plans in 
September 2020. SJP accept they should have been able to act on that instruction by 
29 September. But the money wasnt sent to Mr Bs trust account until November  around 
9 November for the gift trust funds and 17 November for the loan trust funds. 
SJP paid the value of the bonds as they were on 16 October 2020. This was the date they 
began thinking about how to handle the instructions theyd received, particularly about the 
loan trust fund. Theyve shown this was actually a higher value than Mr B would have 
received if the withdrawal had been completed in September. 
Mr B however would like to receive the value the bonds had in November, on the day he 
received the money. He feels this will suitably reflect that it would cost him more to reinvest 
in the same bonds because their price rose during the delay period. 
In response to Mr Bs complaint, SJP offered to pay simple interest at 8% per year on the 
value Mr B would have received in September, for the delay period to November. They 
calculated this would be just over £2,000, and said theyd round it up to £2,500. This offer 
was in addition to giving him the value the bonds had in October 2020. 
The matter came to us, and our investigator felt SJP had done enough to put things right. 
Mr B didnt agree, and still feels he should be given more money to put him in the position he 
would have been in, if not for SJPs mistakes. 
Unresolved, the complaint has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed, I think SJPs offer is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen some of SJPs internal emails at the time of Mr Bs instruction and complaint. 
These show me SJP had received suitable instructions to start processing Mr Bs withdrawal 
in September 2020. Its not clear why, but they failed to start acting on these until October. 
SJP then seem not to have started the withdrawal process until about three weeks later  on 
5 November. That delay seems to have been spent working out how to act on Mr Bs 
instruction for the loan bond. The loan bond and Mr Bs various roles as trustee, executor 
and beneficiary in matters related to the loan did create some technical difficulties. 
But SJP had known about these for years  particularly so as a tax issue had already come 
up for the trusts. I think SJP should have been able to anticipate what would be needed 
when Mr B came to withdraw the money, and set something up to be able to process that 
quicker than they did. 
These delays meant Mr B didnt receive the trusts funds when he should have. The key 
question for this case is what SJP should do to put that right. 
Putting things right
A good starting point for a remedy is to consider how things would have been, if the service 
had been reasonable. Here, Mr B would have received the money from SJP in late 
September 2020. Mr Bs told us he was going to reinvest the money, and has shown us 
advice he received in December 2020 about doing just that. 
But I note that the advice Mr Bs sent us seems to say the money hed received in November 
was being held in a bank account. That tells me Mr B didnt have an immediate plan for 
reinvesting. 
Mr Bs talked about it costing more to reinvest in the funds hed just left. But I dont see thats 
a reasonable way to consider things. It seems very unlikely to me that someone would leave 
a fund only to go back into it  unless they were expecting the funds value to drop sharply. 
Here, Mr Bs actions seem to reflect his belief that the markets would be quite stable in 
September, after the fluctuations in early 2020. 
I appreciate Mr Bs point  that if the markets rise while his money isnt invested, hell be 
able to buy less. But I dont feel that just because the fund he left rose in value, its safe to 
say every other investment opportunity rose in a similar way. 
So I dont find SJP necessarily have to compensate Mr B for specific lost investment gains. 
With that said, there was a lost opportunity for Mr B to do something with the money. I 
consider a fair way of recognising that to be an award of simple interest on the amount that 
was kept from Mr B by the delay. This is in line with the approach a court would take where 
someone has been without money that they should have had. So I see it as a reasonable 
step to put things right. The court rate is 8% per year, so thats the rate Ill use too. 
I note SJP have already offered that in this case  from the time Mr B should have received 
the money in September, to when he actually received it in November. That reasonably 
reflects that Mr B didnt have the use of the money in that period, due to SJPs mistakes. 
Im also mindful that the interest figure has been rounded up to the nearest £500 by SJP  
that deals with any uncertainty about the exact dates when things should have happened. 
And it goes some way to acknowledge the emotional impact on Mr B in this case. Its also in 
keeping with an informal and speedy approach to putting things right, which is the approach 
we seek at this service. So I think that approach here is reasonable.
As a test of whether thats a fair remedy, Ive thought about what Id expect SJP to do if the 
value of the bonds had dropped from September to November. In that case, Id again expect 
them to pay the September value, plus interest to reflect the time Mr B was without the 
money. The fact it works as a remedy that way round leads me towards saying its a fair 
remedy for the impact the delay in receiving the money had on Mr B.
SJPs overall actions in this case go beyond that though. Theyve also given Mr B some of 
the gains the bonds made while the withdrawal was delayed. I dont consider it fair for a complainant to be compensated twice for the same issue  even if it is done by two different 
methods. 
But I note that by taking that approach, SJP do tackle the issue of their profiting from the 
delay. By failing to act when they should have, SJP allowed the value of the bonds to rise. If 
theyd then just given Mr B the value the bonds had in September, theyd presumably have 
been able to keep the gains made during the failure to act. I can see how that would appear 
unfair to Mr B. And perhaps still does  SJP havent given him the value gained from 
mid-October to early November, when the withdrawals were actually done. 
However, SJPs approach clearly demonstrates to me that they want to create good will 
when resolving Mr Bs complaint. And Mr Bs shown hes upset by the way his instructions 
were handled, and that he was disappointed not to receive the higher values he thought hed 
get when the delays persisted. 
Overall, Ive decided itll be fair to regard giving Mr B the October value for the bonds  
rather than the September value hed have received if thered been no mistakes  as putting 
right that emotional impact, and restoring the good will with SJP. The size of the gain Mr B 
received  more than £3,000  is more than Id typically award for the emotional impact of a 
delay like this. But  together with the cost to SJP of the interest payment Ive mentioned  it 
stops things from being in a position where Mr B might see SJP as having profited from 
providing him with a poor service due to the rise in value. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint about St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc. 
But SJP have made an offer to put things right by paying Mr B £2,500, on top of giving him 
the October value of the investments. I conclude thats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So my decision is that SJP should pay Mr B the £2,500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B as trustee of 
a gift and a loan bond plan to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman