DRN-3704426
The complaint
Mr H complains Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix Life) contacted him 15 years after his policy 
had matured. He feels the way it attempted to confirm his identification and chosen option 
with regard to the policy was confusing and misleading. Mr H says he had no confidence the 
process was secure. He asks for his funds to be released and for a full explanation of why 
this matter has been unnecessarily delayed.
What happened
Mr H held two pension policies with Phoenix Life. The policy was due to reach Mr Hs 
selected retirement age, and so in line with the regulatory requirements Phoenix Life wrote 
to the address it had on file six months before the polices were due to mature, on 2 May 
2005.
Phoenix Life wrote to the address it held in December 2004, March 2005, and May 2005.
In 2020, Phoenix Life tried to contact Mr H again. As no contact had been received from Mr 
H but the system indicated he would soon be 75 years of age. HMRC require all pension 
providers to check a consumer Lifetime Allowance (LTA) at age 75 if they have an unused 
pension. As Phoenix still held the policies, it contacted the Department of Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to see if it could trace Mr H and his current address.
The trace was successful, and Phoenix wrote to Mr H at the address provided by DWP. 
Phoenix says because this was a provided address and no contact had been made with it by 
Mr H himself, it needed to carry out identification checks, and this required Mr H to send 
proof of identity. It also sent a retirement pack with the option available to him.
When he considered the options available to him, the option he felt most suitable to his 
needs pointed out that he would receive 25% as a tax-free lump sum but the remaining 75% 
would be taxed on an emergency tax basis, so he could pay more or less than needed and 
he would need to reclaim anything owed from HMRC.  Mr H responded via email; he 
selected the option he required but asked for emergency tax not to be applied. Phoenix Life 
responded and advised him he needed to complete the documentation it had sent, and it 
couldnt accept an email request. 
Mr H found the process very frustrating. He complained to Phoenix Life about the lack of 
explanation for why it had taken so long to get in touch with him. He was further frustrated by 
the documentation to provide his identification which he felt was muddled and confusing  so 
much so he began to wonder if this was a scam. 
On 25 September 2020, Phoenix Life issued its final response. It apologised if Mr H had 
found the process confusing but pointed out there were certain requirements it had to 
undertake to confirm his identity and process the choices Mr H wanted to make, whilst Mr H 
had complied with some there was still information needed and it couldnt proceed without it. 
It explained in the letter what else was needed and how to provide it.
Mr H remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr H. Whilst he accepted Mr H had found the process 
frustrating, in his view Phoenix Life had made reasonable requests that were in line with the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys requirements. He didnt think Phoenix Life had done anything 
wrong and so he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr H disagreed. He shared a response from Phoenix which suggested the tracing process 
could have started much earlier  but it didnt attempt to trace him until 2020. He pointed out 
his pension had passed through three different business changes before ending up with 
Phoenix and he highlighted the difficulties of keeping track of this, in terms of updating his 
address. He doesnt feel Phoenix Life has treated him fairly and so he asked for an 
ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and Phoenix Life.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead, this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Ive seen that Mr H feels strongly about his complaint. But I dont think Phoenix Life has 
done anything wrong in its attempts to trace Mr H; or in requiring specific information before 
paying his pension benefits.
I appreciate Mr H feels that Phoenix Life could and should have attempted to trace him 
earlier, but as our investigator pointed out, there is no regulatory requirement to do so. I 
understand Mr H would have liked there to have been further efforts made; but I havent 
seen anything that makes me think if attempts had been made at other times prior to the 
DWP service, it would have succeeded any better. 
I understand that Mr H thinks it was Phoenix Lifes duty to contact him. But from what Ive 
seen, Phoenix Life did try to contact him; and I accept they did enough. Mr H could have 
contacted Phoenix Life; and a number of people do contact their providers when they are 
coming up to retirement, and the date when their plan is due to mature.I have considered Mr Hs point about the change in business, meaning his pension has 
come under different management throughout the course of time, but had he updated his 
address that should have passed with his policies. I dont agree that the responsibility solely 
falls on the pension provider here to maintain contact. As Mr H points out there are a 
significant number of pension policies that remain un-accessed but that doesnt make them 
redundant. Phoenix Life has continued to manage Mr Hs policies which have grown in value 
and so there hasnt been a financial disadvantage.
So, in terms of the failure to trace or contact Mr H, I havent seen any evidence that Phoenix 
Life has failed to follow either its own policies and procedures or that of the regulator. 
I have looked at the forms sent to Mr H requiring his identification checks and the retirement 
pack option form. These are standard requirements and forms that a pension provider must 
evidence prior to paying out a pension, precisely to do its utmost to protect a plan holder 
from scams and to ensure the person with whom they are dealing is the correct policy 
holder.
So, whilst I appreciate Mr H would have preferred a different process, that he would find 
more user friendly, I cant say that Phoenix Life has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
approach. I can also see it suggested several times that Mr H make contact with Pension 
Wise or a financial adviser, both of whom would have been able to assist him with his 
choices and an explanation of the process.
The requirement to deduct emergency tax from the one of the options available to Mr H is 
not something Phoenix Life can choose to opt out of as this a requirement of HMRC and 
Phoenix Life is obligated to comply with the tax regulations as it is with the FCA.
Overall, I havent seen any evidence to suggest Phoenix Life has acted unreasonably. Once 
Mr H has completed the necessary forms and provided the information required Phoenix Life 
will be able to comply with his instructions. So, whilst I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H I cant fairly uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman