DRN-2494046
The complaint
Miss C complains about the interest that shes being charged under a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited and about the service that shes received. Shes 
being helped with her complaint by her representative.
What happened
Miss C entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook Bank that she signed in 
March 2019 to pay for some replacement windows. She agreed in May 2019 that the 
windows had been installed to her satisfaction and that Shawbrook Bank should release the 
amount of the loan to the supplier - it then sent her a welcome letter which confirmed that 
her direct debit loan repayments would be starting.
Miss C complained to Shawbrook Bank in May 2020 because she understood that the loan 
was going to be interest free for three years and that she hadnt agreed to a 120 month term. 
It didn't agree that Miss C had been mis-informed about the loan or that it had been mis-sold 
to her. Miss C wasnt satisfied with is response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He didnt agree that 
Shawbrook Bank had misled Miss C or that the loan agreement gave any inaccurate 
information about the way that interest was due from the start. He didnt think that there was 
evidence to say that Shawbrook Bank had mis-sold the loan to her.
Miss Cs representative, on her behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. He says that the suppliers sales practices are dubious and that Shawbrook 
Bank should take responsibility for its decision to partner with such suppliers and that its 
not acceptable to just say that the supplier has gone out of business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss C agreed with the supplier for it to supply and install some replacement 
windows and she agreed to pay for those windows using a fixed sum loan agreement 
with Shawbrook Bank;
she signed the loan agreement in March 2019 and immediately above her signature 
it says: This is a Credit Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign 
it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms;
the loan agreement clearly sets out the terms of the loan  the cash price of the 
windows (and the amount of the loan) was £4,250 which Miss C agreed to repay by 
120 monthly repayments of £77.40 and it said: First repayment to be made 1 month 
after the advance date;
the windows were installed and Miss C signed a letter in May 2019 in which she 
confirmed that the windows had:  been substantially fitted to [her] satisfaction ; 
and that she authorised Shawbrook Bank to release the amount of the credit to the 
supplier;
Shawbrook Bank sent her a welcome letter the next day which said: Your first 
monthly Direct Debit payment is £77.40 and will be due on [specified date in June 
2019]. Subsequent payments will be due on the same date every month.  If any of 
the above details are incorrect or if you have any queries please contact us as soon 
as possible using the contact details below;
the monthly payments were made by Miss C to Shawbrook Bank by direct debit and 
Ive seen no evidence to show that she contacted it about her issues with the loan 
until May 2020;
the supplier has stopped trading but Ive seen no evidence other than what Miss C 
says to show that the supplier had agreed that the loan would be interest free for 
three years - Miss C had signed the loan agreement which clearly said that 
repayments would start one month after the advance date (and she confirmed that 
the advance date was in May 2019);
the loan agreement clearly set out that the duration of the loan was 120 months and 
that Miss C was required to make 120 monthly loan repayments;
if Miss C was expecting the loan to be interest free for three years, I consider that it 
would be reasonable to expect her to have contacted Shawbrook Bank soon after 
she received its welcome letter or soon after the direct debits started  but Ive seen 
no evidence to show that she did so;
Miss Cs representative is clearly concerned about the sale practices used by the 
supplier but the windows were supplied to Miss C as agreed, she confirmed her 
satisfaction with them and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that the windows or the loan agreement were mis-sold or mispresented to Miss C or 
that theres been a breach of contract by the supplier;
nor am Im persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Shawbrook Bank 
has acted incorrectly in its dealings with Miss C about the loan; and 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Shawbrook Bank to change any of the terms of the loan agreement, to pay any 
compensation to Miss C or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman