DRN-2442896
The complaint
Mr M complains that esure Insurance Limited didnt complete all the agreed repairs to his car 
after a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged whilst parked and unattended and he made a claim on his policy. 
esure arranged for repairs after Mr M sent in photos. And then esures appraiser listed three 
areas of damage to be repaired following an inspection. But esures approved repairer only 
completed two areas. It said the third area, damage to a door panel, wasnt related to the 
accident. 
Mr M said hed decided to go ahead with the repairs and pay his £200 policy excess on the 
understanding that all three areas would be repaired. esure said hed need to make a 
separate claim for the door. It said all three areas of damage were caused in separate 
incidents.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
esure had reasonably relied on its senior engineers view that the damage had been caused 
by three separate incidents. 
But she thought Mr M had been given incorrect information by the inspecting appraiser that 
all three areas of damage would be repaired. She thought esure should pay Mr M £50 
compensation for this.
esure said its appraiser had no authority to authorise repairs without its permission. It 
thought Mr M had already benefited as hed had two repairs made on one claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M wanted all three areas of damage on his car repaired. These were on the front and 
rear bumpers and on a door panel. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
esures senior engineer said that all three areas of damage couldnt have occurred in one 
incident. He said they were caused by three separate incidents and this meant that Mr M 
should have to make three claims, and pay his excess each time, to have them repaired. 
The approved repairer had already repaired the bumpers, so esure didnt contest that. But it 
declined to have the car door repaired as part of the claim. I havent seen any other 
engineering evidence to counter the engineers view that this wasnt related to the claim. So I 
think esure has justified its decision not to pay for the doors repair. 
Mr M said esure had approved the repairs when he notified it of the claim and again when its 
appraiser inspected his car. esure told us that repairs wouldnt be approved until the car was 
inspected in a garage. But I dont think the evidence supports this and I think esure didnt 
reasonably manage Mr Ms expectations about the outcome of his claim. Ill explain why I 
think this. 
Mr M notified esure of his claim online and he attached photographs. esure then instructed 
its repairer to make the repairs. But I cant see from its file that it told Mr M that it had made 
any decision on what was to be repaired, or when it would do so. 
The repairer sent an appraiser to complete a collection damage report and collect the car. 
He listed three areas of damage to be repaired, the two bumpers and a chip on one door, 
and excluded a scratch on another door. So I think Mr M was left thinking that the three 
areas would be repaired. 
The car was returned to Mr M with the chip on the door unrepaired, but repairs were made to 
the two bumpers. The garage told Mr M that it thought the damage to the door was unrelated 
to the incident. esure said that the garage wouldnt complete any repairs without its 
authorisation. 
But I cant see that esure authorised the repairs to the two bumpers, but not the door. From 
what I can see, this was the decision of the garage. And esures engineer later confirmed 
that only one bumper should have been repaired under the claim. Which I think further 
supports this view.
If the car had been assessed in the garage, I think esure should reasonably have contacted 
Mr M to discuss what was approved under the claim. So Mr M would have still had a choice 
about whether to proceed with his claim or to have the repairs done privately. Instead, he 
paid his policy excess, had a fault claim against his record, but the car wasnt repaired as he 
expected it to be.
As Ive said above, I think esure has justified its decision not to pay for the repair to the door, 
so I dont require it to do this. But I think it should have told Mr M this earlier so that he was 
reasonably informed and could decide how to proceed. 
Mr M wanted the claim changed to notification only and his excess refunded. But I dont think 
this would be fair and reasonable as hes made a claim on his policy and esure must 
maintain accurate records. And the policy terms and conditions require the excess to be 
paid.
 Putting things right
The investigator recommended that esure should pay Mr M £50 compensation for giving him 
incorrect information about his claim. I think this incorrect information falsely raised Mr Ms 
expectations. And I think £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused 
is fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require esure Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman