DRN-2579435
The complaint
Mr W complains that St Jamess Place UK plc (SJP) made a mistake when transferring his 
pension funds to another pension provider. He says he suffered a financial loss as a result. 
What happened
In October 2018, SJP wrote to Mr W to let him know it was moving his pension plans to its 
new St Jamess Place retirement accounts. It told Mr W the changes were largely 
administrative and there was no action for him to take. And it explained that, whilst his plans 
would be held under a single retirement account (to simplify the management of his 
investments and still enable him to continue to invest in a tax-efficient and flexible way) his 
existing plans would still be recognised in future and can still be quoted in any 
correspondence. 
In December 2018, Mr W signed transfer forms in relation to two of his eight pension plans 
(he wanted to transfer £212,000 in total), which he intended to move to another pension 
provider, Company F. On the transfer form, Company F included the individual plan numbers 
and indicated that Mr W wanted to transfer the full values of the plans. 
In January 2019, SJP told Mr W that it had transferred the total value of Mr Ws retirement 
account  over £220,000. 
Mr W complained to SJP about this. In a response sent in July 2019, SJP acknowledged it 
should have asked for confirmation of the exact amount to be transferred. To put right the 
mistake, it said it could ask Company F to return the funds to allow Mr Ws account to be 
reactivated and the funds to be re-invested. SJP asked Mr W if it should proceed with this. 
Mr W explained why hed only wanted to complete a partial transfer to Company F. That was 
to retain some funds - those to which withdrawal penalties applied  and to maintain the 
existing relationship and build it through additional investment. And he said hed since lost 
confidence in SJP, so hed decided to leave all pension funds with Company F. Mr W said 
he expected SJP to reimburse all the charges hed incurred as a result of SJPs mistake and 
to pay him compensation for the stress hed suffered. 
SJP wrote to Mr W again in October 2019. It explained the changes made to its retirement  
account and the migration to a new digital investment platform. It said that within its online 
request, Company F had selected the option to transfer all of the funds within your 
retirement account. As the full fund value of your retirement account was within 10% of the 
value requested, a full transfer of your retirement account was completed. SJP added that 
since moving to its new digital platform, it could no longer process partial withdrawal 
requests using old retirement plan numbers. It also apologised that it gave Mr W incorrect 
information in July 2019 about asking Company F to potentially return funds incorrectly 
transferred. It was satisfied it had processed the transfer in line with Company Fs 
instruction.
Mr W wasnt happy, so he complained to us. He said it should have been obvious to SJP 
that the full value he wanted to transfer was the value of the two separate plans as opposed 
to the whole of his pension fund. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. Amongst other things, he found that, 
there wasnt anything to indicate Mr W wanted to complete a full transfer of his pension. 
And, as hed quoted sub plan numbers, the investigator felt it was clear that the transfer 
requests related to particular plans. He also said - despite what SJP indicated - a partial 
transfer was possible in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Overall, the 
investigator was satisfied that there had been a mistake on SJPs part and said hed 
normally try to put Mr W back in the position he would have been in if it hadnt been for that 
mistake. However, Mr W had already indicated hed lost confidence in SJP and said he 
wanted to leave his funds where they were. So, the investigator didnt think it would be fair to 
ask SJP to reimburse the charges Mr W had to pay. As he felt to do so would put Mr W in a 
better position (not least because hed have been able to transfer the whole of his pension 
without incurring an early withdrawal charge). But the investigator did feel that the situation 
had caused Mr W a fair amount of frustration and stress. So, he recommended SJP pay 
Mr W £250 compensation to recognise that. 
SJP said it was happy with the investigators findings. And, after careful consideration, Mr W 
said generally Im in agreement with all you have written with the one exception thats in 
relation to the treatment of the early withdrawal fees... This is the only issue for me now. 
So, Mr Ws asked for a review by an Ombudsman and the matters been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says hes lost faith in SJP due to its handling of his pension transfer request and its 
later confusing responses about whether it was responsible for the mistake or not. As far 
as Mr W is concerned SJP transferred the wrong amount to Company F and that meant he 
had to pay additional fees. 
As Mr W mostly accepted our investigators assessment and SJP said it was happy with the 
findings, Im not intending to go into great detail about things that arent disputed. I will say 
though, for broadly the same reasons as our investigator gave, Im satisfied from the 
evidence Ive seen that Mr Ws transfer request was clear. So, I wasnt persuaded by SJPs 
arguments that it had acted in line with Company Fs instructions because it thought 
Company F had indicated the full fund was to be transferred. Nor did I see anything in the 
terms and conditions which indicated that a partial transfer couldnt be made - as long as it 
was compliant with the scheme rules overall. And from what Ive seen, Mr Ws partial 
transfer request did seem to be compliant with the scheme rules. So, all of that leaves me 
satisfied that the mistake was SJPs and I now need to decide what, if anything, it should do 
to put things right.
Mr W doesnt think it fair for SJP to charge him over £800 in early withdrawal fees due to its 
own mistake. I appreciate his position. Under normal circumstances, its likely Id have asked 
SJP to contact Company F and ask for the pension funds to be returned. Id then have 
expected SJP to rework the account as if the mistake hadnt happened - including refunding 
the early withdrawal charges Mr W had to pay. But, Im mindful that Mr W now wants to 
leave his funds where they are because hes lost faith in SJP. Thats entirely a matter for 
Mr W to decide. 
But, having thought about this, I wont be directing SJP to refund the early withdrawal costs it 
charged Mr W. To do so would effectively put Mr W in a better position than other SJP 
customers whod withdrawn their pension funds early. Thats because, unlike other 
customers, Mr W would essentially have been able to transfer his pension funds to another provider without bearing the costs associated with that. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable 
to insist that SJP refunds the early withdrawal charges now. That said, its clear that this 
matter has been a source of frustration and stress for Mr W, so Im going to direct 
St Jamess Place UK plc to pay Mr W £250 compensation in recognition of that if it hasnt 
already done so.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
St Jamess Place UK plc should now pay Mr W £250 compensation in recognition of the 
frustration and stress this matter caused - if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman