DRN-2626855
The complaint
Mr S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited didnt deal with his claim on a legal expenses 
insurance policy fairly. He is supported in making this complaint by his solicitors who Ill call 
C.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr S was involved in a car accident when he was the passenger in a car being driven by a 
relative of his. He wanted to bring a claim against the driver of the other car for 
compensation for personal injury.
Mr S relative also intended to bring a claim against the other driver. She made a claim on 
her legal expenses insurance policy and Amtrust appointed one of its panel solicitors to act 
for her but it later withdrew cover for her claim. She complained about that decision and I 
have dealt with that complaint separately.
Mr S contacted Amtrust seeking to claim on the policy around two months before the 
limitation period for issuing court proceedings expired.
Amtrust instructed one of its panel firms of solicitors to review the papers and confirm if they 
were able to take the matter on. But it said instructions given at that late stage in the 
limitation period were usually declined by solicitors as they wouldnt have enough time to 
prepare the evidence needed to start proceedings.
Shortly after, Amtrust advised that the panel firm wasnt prepared to take on the claim at that 
stage  they thought taking instructions exposed them to too much risk. Amtrust said it had 
suspected that may be the case given the small amount of time to gather what could be 
considerable medical evidence to support the claim.
Amtrust told Mr S if he wished to pursue the claim, he would need to find a solicitor who was 
willing to take the claim on so close to limitation and, although that might be difficult, if he 
found a solicitor who was willing to take it on, he could instruct them to contact Amtrust and it 
would consider whether to provide cover for them to act.
Mr S complained to Amtrust that it was preventing him from having the benefit of cover 
under his policy. He also said that when replying to him it referred to issues concerning his 
relatives claim instead of his. Amtrust acknowledged that it had referred to the other claim, 
but said the confusion arose because Mr S had referred to that claim in his email 
correspondence. With regard to providing cover, Amtrust said Mr S would need to find a 
solicitor that was willing to take the case on and, if he did so, it would engage with them 
about providing cover under the policy.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Amtrusts response and complained to this service. He said 
Amtrust had prevented him from contacting the panel solicitors directly to see if they would 
act for him; insisted he find non-panel solicitors who would act for him under a conditional 
fee agreement (CFA) and insisted that the solicitors would have to obtain a medical report 
before issuing proceedings.
In view of the extensive comments received I issued a provisional decision to allow both 
sides to comment before making a final decision. In the provisional decision I said:
C have provided very detailed comments. Whilst I have considered everything they have 
said, I dont think its necessary to comment in detail on every single point they have made. I 
have focused on whats at the heart of the complaint and those issues I need to consider 
when deciding how to resolve it, bearing in mind our aim is to resolve complaints informally. 
The crux of the matter here is that Mr S says he contacted Amtrust before the limitation 
period expired but it failed to provide cover in time for him to issue court proceedings and, as 
a result, he lost the opportunity to pursue his case. So I have focused on what happened 
when he contacted Amtrust and why proceedings were not issued before the deadline.
Where C have referred to legal points I have taken these into account. But, although I must 
take account of the law, I am not deciding this complaint in the same way that a court would; 
rather, Im deciding whats fair and reasonable.
The relevant rules require an insurer to deal with claims promptly and fairly, provide 
reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its 
progress, and not to refuse a claim unreasonably. I have considered Amtrusts actions in 
light of these expectations and the policy terms.
The policy provides cover for legal costs of pursuing a personal injury claim, which is the 
claim Mr S wished to make. Amtrust referred the claim to a panel firm of solicitors but they 
said they were not able to take the case on so close to the limitation date. I cant consider 
the solicitors actions, so I cant comment on their decision not to accept the case. I can only 
consider Amtrusts actions in dealing with the insurance claim. So Ive considered the steps 
it took to find solicitors to act and whether it prevented Mr S from obtaining legal 
representation.
Amtrust couldnt force a firm of solicitors to take a case on and if the panel firm declined to 
act, there was little it could do about that. Mr S says he wanted to contact the solicitors 
directly to try and persuade them to take the case. There was no obligation on Amtrust to 
allow that and, since the solicitors had explained why they wouldnt accept the case, I think it 
was reasonable for Amtrust to consider alternatives instead. 
Amtrust decided that, rather than looking for another firm of solicitors itself, it would ask Mr S 
to find solicitors and then speak to them about how to proceed. I understand Amtrust had 
three panel firms. One had previously been acting for Mr S relative on her related claim but 
was no longer acting. So two of the three firms were unavailable. Although insurers usually 
instruct panel firms to act in the first instance, once a case is at the point where court 
proceedings are to be issued, a policyholder is able to choose their own solicitor. Mr S was 
at the point where he needed to issue proceedings. Bearing in mind the difficulties in 
instructing panel solicitors, I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for Amtrust to 
suggest that he find his own solicitors. It was willing to consider the claim and speak to 
whichever solicitors he chose about providing cover. Given the circumstances, I think that 
was reasonable.
Even if Amtrust was at fault (and I dont think it was, for the reasons given) I would still need 
to consider whether Mr S has lost out as a result of its actions. He says he wasnt in a 
position where he could issue proceedings without cover under the policy and as he wasnt 
able to pursue the case, he should be compensated for loss of chance.I appreciate that without having legal representation through his policy Mr S was in a difficult 
position. But he says he was ready to issue proceedings. I would expect any complainant to 
take steps to keep their losses to a minimum and in these circumstances its reasonable to 
expect him to protect his position. Where a business makes a mistake, that doesnt mean 
the policyholder can simply do nothing and allow the loss or harm to continue, if that could 
be avoided; they are expected to take steps to minimise the harm. Mr S had around two 
months in which to instruct another firm of solicitors to act for him but does not seem to have 
taken action to do this. Had he done so, they could have contacted Amtrust to discuss terms 
for them to be appointed. Alternatively, he could also have instructed solicitors himself to act 
under a CFA. As a last resort, he could have issued proceedings himself in order to protect 
his position.
Either way, he could have avoided missing the limitation date. If further legal work was 
necessary, that could then have been done after the proceedings were issued; in the 
meantime, he would have protected his position. Im not satisfied that he couldnt have taken 
any of these steps. Had he done so, he would now be able to continue the legal action with 
solicitors acting for him, whether under the policy or through a CFA. So although hes now 
lost the chance to pursue the case I dont think thats down to Amtrusts actions.
In coming to this view, Ive also taken into account that Mr S only sought to claim on the 
policy around two months before the limitation period expired. He had known about this for 
some time (it was almost three years since the accident) and could have sought to claim 
much earlier. His explanation is that he was aware his relative was having issues with her 
claim and was waiting for the outcome of her complaint, in the hope once that was resolved, 
she would have solicitors acting for her and he could then join his claim. I dont think that in 
itself justifies leaving his claim to the last minute. If he had acted sooner he would not have 
been left in the position of having to deal with matters urgently. It wasnt Amtrusts fault that 
he brought his claim late on. Amtrust was faced with trying to assess his claim and find 
solicitors to act in a short time period. The panel firm wasnt prepared to take the case and, 
as Ive explained, that was not something Amtrust could force them to do.
Mr S says Amtrust didnt refuse to provide cover, but suggested he find his own solicitors 
and made it more difficult by insisting that any solicitors would only be able to act if they 
obtained medical evidence first, which wasnt possible in the short time available. So it 
effectively ruined his chance of pursuing his claim. Im not sure thats the case  if a solicitor 
was willing to accept the case, it would have been for them to decide how to manage it and 
what evidence they needed to collect; thats a legal matter for the solicitors. In any event, C 
has said it wouldnt be necessary to obtain medical evidence before issuing proceedings. 
Indeed, C say it wouldnt even be necessary to issue proceedings  where a request to issue 
is received by the court before the limitation date but a claim is only actually issued after that 
date, the standard court practice is that it is treated as having been issued in time.
Im only considering how Amtrust dealt with the insurance claim and its not for me to 
comment directly on what action would have been needed in relation to court proceedings. 
But in my judgment, the comments C have made only reinforce the view that Mr S could 
have taken steps to protect his position, and then dealt with obtaining further evidence as 
required.
I appreciate there may have been some risk and costs involved but its not unusual for a 
party to issue protective proceedings to avoid missing a limitation date. On the information 
provided, in my judgment it would have been possible for Mr S to take steps to protect his 
position. If he had a strong case, he might have taken out an after the event policy to 
protect her costs exposure alongside a CFA. And as he was being advised by C who have 
some experience in personal injury claims, they might also have been able to assist him in 
preparing the court papers.Alternatively, if he wasnt able to find other solicitors or pursue the case himself, he could 
have decided not to continue the action. If he had only issued protective proceedings and 
then withdrew the claim soon after issuing (possibly even before proceedings were served 
on the other side) his costs exposure would have been limited.
For all these reasons Im not of the view that Amtrust is responsible for the fact Mr S was 
unable to pursue his legal action or should have to compensate home for the loss of chance 
of bringing that claim.
Replies to the provisional decision
Amtrust had no further comments to add in reply to the provisional decision but C have 
provided further comments on behalf of Mr S. Their comments are lengthy and detailed so I 
wont set them out in full. I will summarise some of the main points, which include:
They no longer deal with personal injury litigation and so were not in a position to 
assist Mr S with preparing or issuing court proceedings. It was reasonable for Mr S to 
wait for the issues with his relatives claim to be resolved, and would have made 
sense for them both to instruct the same solicitors.  
The provisional decision shifts the burden on to Mr S, saying he is entirely at fault for 
failing to mitigate and issue proceedings himself, but it was impossible for him to do 
that without having cover.
Amtrust imposed unfair conditions to cover being provided, including that any non-
panel solicitors would have to agree to act under a CFA - which the policy terms do 
not allow  and would have to obtain medical evidence before issuing court 
proceedings. The provisional decision wrongly says Amtrust didnt impose this 
condition because the solicitors would have been free to conduct or manage the 
personal injury claim as they considered appropriate, but that wasnt the case.
Even if there were no requirement to obtain medical evidence, Amtrust still 
scuppered the personal injury claim.
Its very unlikely Mr S could have obtained after the event cover but even if it was 
possible, its expensive and he couldnt have afforded the cost.
Mr S could only have issued proceedings if he had the benefit of legal expenses 
cover. If he had issued a claim and then had to withdraw it, that would have an abuse 
of process and he would have been at risk of being ordered to pay costs. They 
advised Mr S that it would be wrong to mitigate by bringing or pursuing the personal 
injury claims without having cover in place beforehand. He acted on this advice.
The Court of Appeal has given explanations of the duty to mitigate, including when it 
is and is not, fair and reasonable in relation to an innocent party. In the 
circumstances here, there was no duty on Mr S to mitigate. 
Requesting indemnity over two months before expiry of the limitation period wasnt 
leaving it until the last moment. When Mr S originally contacted Amtrust, he simply 
asked for the list of alternative panel solicitors so that he could contact them direct. 
Mr S never asked Amtrust to get involved in procuring agreement of any panel 
solicitors to act. Amtrust took it upon themselves to do so, no doubt so it could 
influence or prejudice the process. Its likely solicitors would have been found who 
were willing to take the case on if it hadnt been for Amtrusts interference.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although C say I have either failed to consider all the information provided or at the very 
least failed to consider it properly, I considered all the information available before issuing 
my provisional decision and I have now reviewed all the additional comments provided in 
reply to it. In view of the very lengthy submissions its not possible to set them all out in 
detail, which is why I have summarised them and focused on the key points.
Some of the comments made in reply to the provisional decision concern the related 
complaint from Mr S relative. As I have issued a final decision on that complaint, I cant 
make any further comment about that. I appreciate that C say the two complaints must be 
looked at together as the same issues arise in both. Although they arose out of the same 
incident and there was some connection between them, they were two different claims made 
by different people at different times. This decision only concerns Mr S complaint.
C say its wrong to shift all the burden on to Mr S and blame him for not issuing proceedings 
in time. And they say there was no duty to mitigate. As I explained in the provisional 
decision, I first considered whether Amtrust was at fault and concluded that it wasnt. But 
even if it had been at fault, I would still need to consider whether Mr S suffered any loss or 
harm and  if so  whether that was caused by Amtrusts failings. Even where a business 
has got something wrong, that doesnt mean the policyholder can simply do nothing and 
allow the loss or harm to continue; its reasonable to expect them to take steps to minimise 
the harm. 
Despite the additional comments made, its still my view that Amtrust wasnt at fault. Amtrust 
didnt reject the claim  it was willing to consider it and got in touch with panel solicitors to 
see if they would act. When the solicitors said they wouldnt take the case on, Amtrust said 
Mr S could find other solicitors and it would then speak to them about how to proceed. 
Where court proceedings are to be issued, a policyholder is able to choose their own 
solicitor. In the particular circumstances of this case  where Mr S was at the point where he 
needed to issue proceedings  and given the difficulties in instructing panel solicitors, I think 
it was reasonable for Amtrust to proceed in this way. It was willing to consider the claim and 
speak to whichever solicitors he chose about providing cover. Amtrust responded promptly 
and fairly to help Mr S with his claim, and didnt refuse it unreasonably.
C say Mr S didnt leave it until the last minute  two months was enough time  and it would 
have made sense for him to instruct the same solicitors as his relative. I can see why they 
may have wanted to use the same solicitors. But knowing there were problems with the 
other claim, it would have been reasonable for Mr S to take action sooner. Finding solicitors 
who would take on his case two months before limitation ran out did present issues. If Mr S 
had taken steps earlier, he may have avoided being left in that position.
C say Amtrust prevented Mr S from issuing proceedings, by imposing unfair conditions on 
cover being provided. They dont accept that solicitors would have been free to conduct or 
manage the personal injury claim as they considered appropriate. And without the benefit of 
cover they say he couldnt afford to pursue the case. Insurers are responsible for dealing 
with the insurance claim. Once solicitors are appointed, they are responsible for the day to 
day running of the litigation. So if solicitors had been appointed they would ultimately have 
decided how to pursue the case, including what evidence was needed.
S say there was no duty to mitigate loss. They have referred to examples of other situations 
and to court judgments. I have considered these points. But I need to make a decision on the basis of the circumstances in Mr S case rather than other possible situations. And as I 
explained in the provisional decision, while I take account of relevant law, Im not applying 
the law as a court would; I have to decide whats fair and reasonable taking into account all 
the circumstances of Mr Ss case. Looking at things in the round and considering whats 
reasonable, if Mr S could have taken action to mitigate his loss, I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable for him not to do that. And for the reasons given in the provisional decision, I 
think he could reasonably have protected his position. 
C say it would have been an abuse of process to issue proceedings without an intention to 
pursue them. This would potentially arise where theres no present intention of pursuing the 
claim and the claimant is unaware of any valid basis for it. I dont think thats the case here  
Mr S knew the basis of the claim. And he intended to pursue the claim if he were able to do 
so. I dont think this was a situation where it wasnt possible for him to formulate a case. 
Looking at all the circumstances and considering what would be reasonable, my view is that 
Mr S could reasonably have taken steps to mitigate his loss either by taking action at an 
earlier date or by protecting his position before the limitation period expired. As I said in the 
provisional decision, if he withdrew proceedings soon after issue, and without further action 
being taken, any costs exposure would have been limited.
In any event, I dont think Amtrust was at fault; it considered the claim and the fact 
proceedings were not issued was because it wasnt possible to find solicitors willing to take 
on the case in the short time available, rather than failings in the way Amtrust considered the 
claim..
For all these reasons, and the reasons set out in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman