DRN-3598332
The complaint
A company Ill call M has complained that Blythin & Brown (Insurance Brokers) Ltd mis-sold 
it a commercial insurance policy.
Mr B, a director of M, has brought the complaint on Ms behalf.
What happened
M is a business servicing cars. Its commercial insurance policy was due for renewal in 
December 2019. Following a face to face meeting with Mr B, Blythin wrote to M setting out 
the terms on which its current insurer was prepared to renew and it recommended the policy 
to M. The policy was renewed.
In 2020 M made a claim to the insurer for business interruption losses caused by the Covid-
19 pandemic. The insurer declined the claim. It said M was only covered for business 
interruption resulting from damage to property.
M complained to Blythin about the policy being mis-sold, saying that it had never received 
the policy document.
Blythin said the policy schedule issued by the insurer on renewal had on each page a link to 
the full policy wording. It also said at the time of the policy renewal it couldnt have foreseen 
the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on individual businesses.
Unhappy with Blythins response, M brought its complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
looked into Ms complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. 
M asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the related actions of public authorities had an 
impact on Ms business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Generally, after the sale a consumer is sent policy documents which outline the full benefits, 
terms, conditions and exclusions. Traditionally this used to be by post, but with changing 
technology, this can now be by email or by making them available online. Blythin said 
according to its records a copy of the policy was posted to M after renewal. Mr B is adamant 
he never received this. But in any event he did receive the policy schedule and this clearly 
states on every page where a copy of the policy document can be found online. I think this 
was sufficient.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  which sets out relevant rules that 
Blythin needed to follow  says that when selling a policy, a firm should understand its 
customers demands and needs and propose a policy which is consistent with those 
demands and needs. Blythin sold Ms policy on an advised basis which means it had to 
take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. Blythin also had a general duty 
to provide information that is clear, fair and not misleading.
Following a meeting on 13 December 2019 Blythin emailed M with the renewal premium 
summary. This set out various policy amendments, sums insured and a breakdown of the 
premium. Blythin also enclosed a Risk Register. This document of over 40 pages set out 
(amongst other things) the limits of business interruption cover and the basis on which 
claims would be settled. I accept that the document doesnt say that only certain types of 
business interruption are covered but it also said:
For full details of the policy term conditions, exceptions and excesses reference should be 
made to the policy documents issued by insurers.
Lastly it included a Client Presentation setting out the information Blythin had gathered about 
Ms business. Overall, Im satisfied that Blythin took appropriate care to specify Ms demands 
and needs.
Different policies cover different risks and in my experience it would be unusual for a policy 
to provide cover for every circumstance which led to an inability to trade. Id expect Blythin to 
provide M with information to show what was covered and consider any specific demands 
and needs. Id also expect Blythin to highlight anything significant within the policy, but I 
dont think the lack of cover for a pandemic or Government lockdown was significant at the 
time the policy was renewed. Whilst Ms policy didnt provide cover for the circumstances of 
its claim, I cant expect Blythin to have anticipated in December 2019 that M would require 
cover for a national pandemic from a then unknown disease. I havent seen anything to 
indicate a wider cover for business interruption was something M wanted. Overall, Im 
satisfied that Blythin specified Ms demands and needs and recommended a policy that was 
consistent with them.
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, Im not going to require Blythin to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman