DRN-4176250
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) locked his account when he attempted 
to make a payment to an account held with another provider. He is unhappy with 
Santanders operating processes and the customer service he received when trying to 
resolve this and when he wanted to close his accounts. Mr C says Santander is actively and 
knowingly denying customers reasonable access to service and manage their accounts.
What happened
Mr C held an account with Santander. When Mr C attempted to make a payment to a known 
payee his account was locked due to security concerns and he was told by message that the 
only way to deal with the locked account was by phone. Mr C made a number of attempts to 
call Santander where his calls werent answered or he was cut off. He says this incurred 
considerable costs for him as he was calling from abroad. Because of this Mr C attempted to 
use Santanders online chat service but found he wasnt able to do this as he had to log into 
his account of which he was locked out of. Mr C arranged to make the payment by using 
another means. 
Mr C complained to Santander about this. Santander says the account was blocked on 3 
August but this was removed the following day. Santander compensated Mr C £25 for the 
inconvenience this caused.
Mr C was dis-satisfied with this and further complained about Santander providing him with 
incorrect information and not fully dealing with all his complaint points. Santander gave a 
final response addressing its wait times and improvements it was carrying out and explained 
that it wasnt necessary to be logged in to use its chat service. Santander compensated Mr C 
an additional £75 for the delays Mr C incurred and for not sending him the account closure 
form. 
Mr C located the account closure form online and was unhappy that the account closure 
form stated that closing balances of accounts are only payable by cheque which for him 
living abroad would mean he would incur significant costs for depositing money in this way. 
Mr C complained about this to Santander. 
Mr C was advised by email that the easiest way to transfer his funds was over the phone. 
Santander acknowledged there had been delays in closing Mr Cs accounts and 
compensated Mr C a further £100 on 2 November. Mr Cs accounts with Santander were 
closed and the funds transferred out on 3 November.  
Mr C was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and agreed that Mr C had been inconvenienced by the 
wait times in trying to get hold of Santander to resolve matters and that there had been a 
delay in closing his accounts, but thought the total compensation paid of £200 was a fair way 
to settle his complaint. They explained that although Mr C may be unhappy with Santanders 
actions regarding the recruiting and training of staff is not a regulated activity that we can 
look at or something we would get involved in. And so wouldnt be asking Santander to do 
anything more.   
Mr C disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint  the problems Mr C experienced when trying to 
make a payment from his account and closing his accounts with Santander. Our rules allow 
me to do that. 
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make the 
bank change its systems or processes  such as how it recruits and trains staff or the 
systems it puts in place to reduce wait times. Ultimately, how a bank runs its business and 
the processes it has in place to communicate with its customers and action requests is a 
commercial decision and isnt something for me to get involved with. We offer an informal 
dispute resolution service and we have no regulatory or disciplinary role.
Mr C says that other customers including his wife have reported similar experiences and 
problems that he has had with Santander. That may well be the case and those individuals 
have the option to raise a complaint with Santander. But my role here is to look at the 
problems Mr C himself has experienced and see if Santander has done anything wrong. And 
if it has, I would seek  if possible  to put Mr C back in the position he wouldve been in if 
the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair and 
reasonable.
In this case Mr C was inconvenienced when his account was locked and he wasnt able to 
make a payment. Mr C also experienced difficulties and delays when trying to close his 
account. Santander has already accepted this, so I dont think I need to make a finding here. 
What I need to consider is whether the £200 compensation paid to Mr C for the distress and 
inconvenience experienced is enough.  
I dont think there is any doubt that Mr C spent more time than was necessary trying to get in 
contact with Santander to unlock his account. But Santander has told us that the account 
was only locked for a day and fortunately Mr C was able to use alternative means of making 
the payment. It is also accepted that Santanders service could have been better and that Mr 
C experienced difficulties when it came to closing his accounts. But Mr Cs accounts have 
now been closed and the funds transferred to an external account of Mr Cs  rather than 
being paid by cheque. 
So Mr C has been put in the position he wouldve been in if the problems hed experienced 
hadnt happened  albeit at a later point than hed have liked. So besides the inconvenience 
caused to Mr C in having to resolve these issues there have been - as far as Im aware  no 
other direct financial losses resulting from delays in making payments or the closing of his 
accounts.
So on this basis, I think the £200 in total already paid to Mr C is fair compensation for the 
impact I think these events had on Mr C. I appreciate how frustrated Mr C is about all of this.  But things dont always go smoothly and 
our role isnt to penalise or punish a business when a business makes a mistake  rather it is 
to try and put the consumer in back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes had 
not have happened. As this has already been done, compensation of £200 paid and Mr C 
has closed his accounts and has no further relationship with Santander, I dont think there is 
anything more that can be done. 
So it follows that Im not going to ask Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what Santander UK Plc has already done to put things 
right for Mr C is a fair was to settle his complaint and Im not asking it do to anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman