DRN-2096385
The complaint
In summary, Mr B has complained that Saga Services Limited (trading as Bennetts), 
increased the level of premiums on his insurance policy without telling him. 
What happened
In December 2018 Mr B took out an insurance policy. He opted to pay for the premiums by 
direct debit. In July 2019 Mr B noticed that his insurance premiums had increased. He 
queried this with Saga.
In response Saga said that it had asked Mr B for evidence of his no claims discount (NCD), 
on a number of occasions. It went on to say that as no response or evidence of the NCD had 
been received from Mr B, his insurance premiums had increased.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs concerns. She explained to him why she didnt 
think Saga had done anything wrong. Mr B didnt agree with her assessment, so the case 
has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of any doubt, my decision only addresses the complaint Ive summarised 
above. I am aware that Mr B has raised concerns about a subject access request he has 
made. This decision does not address that issue. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
 
After Mr B purchased his insurance policy, Saga wrote to him confirming that the policy had 
been set up. The letter explained that Mr B would need to provide proof of his NCD. It went 
on to say that if this wasnt provided the cost of the policy would increase.
Saga also wrote to Mr B at the beginning of January 2019 requesting proof of the NCD as 
this hadnt been received. This letter again explained that the cost of the policy would 
increase, or it could be cancelled if proof of the NCD wasnt received. And Saga wrote to 
Mr B again about 10 days later, to inform him that as the proof of NCD hadnt been received, 
his no claim discount had been reduced to zero. The letter also told him how much the 
premium would increase by as a result of this. 
Saga has produced copies of these letters as part of its file. Im satisfied from their content 
which Ive summarised above, that Mr B would have been aware of the necessity to provide 
proof of his NCD, and that his premium would increase if this wasnt provided. And that it 
also told him that his premiums would increase and by how much, if the proof of NCD wasnt 
received.
Mr B has said that he wasnt given any prior notification by Saga that his premiums would 
increase. Ive thought very carefully about what he has said. The letters Saga sent Mr B 
were correctly addressed. In addition, Saga has provided copies of its records which show 
that the letters were either e-mailed or printed to be sent by post to Mr B. Also, the e-mail 
address for Mr B held by Saga, is the same as this service holds for him. So, Im satisfied 
the correspondence sent to Mr B was correctly addressed. 
Mr B has said in response to the investigators assessment that there isnt any proof that 
letters were put in an envelope and sent to him. And he thinks Saga could have contacted 
him by phone.  I understand the points Mr B has made. But I have to consider what is likely 
to have happened on a balance of probabilities. 
The evidence I have shows that letters were produced, and e-mails sent to Mr B. In practical 
terms it would be very difficult for Saga to provide evidence that an individual letter physically 
entered the postal system. But taking into account the evidence I do have, I think its more 
likely than not, that the letters were posted to Mr B. 
Whilst I accept that some post can go astray, the vast majority of correctly addressed post is 
safely delivered. And Im not aware of Mr B having any problems with post being delivered to 
his address. So, whilst I accept Mr B doesnt recall receiving any post from Saga regarding 
the NCD and premium increase, I think its more likely than not that the correspondence was 
delivered to his address. In addition, as the e-mail address Saga had for Mr B was correct, I 
think its likely that the e-mail correspondence was delivered as well. 
Mr B has suggested that Saga should have contacted him by phone. I accept that was an 
option it could have used. But I dont think it did anything wrong by not doing so. I say this 
because it corresponded with Mr B by e-mail and by post which I think were appropriate 
mediums for it to use to communicate with him. And I dont think in this case there was any 
necessity for Saga to also try to contact him by phone as well. 
Mr B also thinks that it was wrong of Saga to have changed the amount it took from his 
account in respect of the increased level of premiums, without his consent. I dont agree that 
Saga did anything wrong by doing this. 
This is because as Ive explained above, Im satisfied that Saga told Mr B that the premiums 
would increase and by how much. In addition, Mr B paid for the premiums by way of a credit 
agreement. And the terms of the credit agreement allowed Saga to vary the monthly 
payment as long as notice was provided in writing, which Im satisfied it was. In addition, the 
direct debit set up to collect the payments from Mr Bs bank account, allowed for changes to 
be made to the amount collected. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is to not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my 
decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman