DRN-3822418
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Debt Managers (Services) Limited didnt accept his partial 
settlement offer when it was in line with an amount theyd asked for in the past.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a defaulted hire purchase debt which was sold to Debt Managers 
in 2018.
From 2021, Mr O discussed settling the account with Debt Managers. Over time, Debt 
Managers made a series of settlement offers, offering between 25% to 50% off the total 
amount. Each offer was valid for 30 days. Mr O turned down these offers at the time, saying 
he couldnt afford that much.
In mid-2022, Mr O explained that a family member was helping him out, and he could now 
afford to offer 50% in partial settlement of the debt. But Debt Managers explained that that 
offer had expired some time ago, and after reviewing the accounts current circumstances 
they could only offer 40% off.
Mr O complained. Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr O didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why it would be frustrating for Mr O that a previous settlement offer was no 
longer available.
I should explain that financial businesses dont have to accept partial settlements at all  it 
was up to Debt Managers discretion. Ultimately, the full balance was outstanding, so Debt 
Managers were entitled to payment of the whole amount, with no discount at all.
Debt Managers calculated what partial settlements they were willing to accept at the time, 
which was liable to change as time went on, and each offer was only valid for so long. Im 
afraid that their 50% offer had expired long ago by the time Mr O said he was able to pay it. 
So they were under no obligation to accept Mr Os proposal.
The debt is now owned by a different company, Intrum. So Mr O may wish to get in touch 
with Intrum to see what theyd be willing to accept.
Ive considered how Debt Managers dealt with Mr Os financial difficulties. I can see that they 
repeatedly put the account on hold, didnt add any charges, made sure he was up to date 
with his priority bills and was only offering what he could actually afford, and referred Mr O to 
free, independent advice charities. That all seems reasonable. While they needed to take 
Mr Os difficult situation into account, they did not need to waive the debt.
I appreciate that Mr O was unhappy with Debt Managers getting in touch with him. But they 
were entitled to contact him to discuss the money he owed, the present position, and his 
repayment options. Indeed, they were required to send some of this correspondence. And 
Ive not seen anything excessive or unreasonable in Debt Managers contact with Mr O.
I also understand Mr O was unhappy with the default involved. The account was defaulted 
by the original creditor, not by Debt Managers, so I cant hold Debt Managers responsible for 
that. Debt Managers just continued to report the same default from before  their entry was 
not a second or duplicate default, it was just a continuation of the first. The entry will now be 
reported by Intrum instead. As the default was in 2017, and defaults only stay on ones credit 
file for six years, it will disappear from Mr Os credit file later this year.
So while I sympathise with Mr Os position, I have not found that Debt Managers did 
anything substantially wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint in this particular case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman