DRN-3300702
The complaint
Miss I complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim under 
her travel insurance policy for a holiday that was cut short. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Miss I held a Premier annual travel insurance policy. The policy started in September 2019
and was provided by URV.
Miss I flew abroad on a skiing trip on 14 March 2020. Unfortunately, on the same day, the
government of the country Miss I was visiting announced the imposition of restrictions
because of the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. These included the closure of ski
resorts, and holidaymakers were invited to leave the area. Miss I therefore cut her trip short,
returning to the UK on 16 March 2020, and made a claim under her policy with URV for both
her unused and additional costs.
URV said Miss Is claim wasnt covered under the curtailment section of her policy as,
although her policy provided cover for a force majeure event, this didnt include pandemics.
Unhappy, Miss I complained to URV before bringing the matter to the attention of our 
service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She said she thought Miss
Is claim was covered under the terms and conditions of her policy, and asked URV to pay
her claim.
URV didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. 
I made my provisional decision about Miss Is complaint in January 2022. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that insurers
must handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken
these rules into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Miss Is complaint.
I understand that the situation which Miss I found herself in was unprecedented and
exceptional. I also understand that, when Miss I took out this policy, the circumstances that
unfolded surrounding Covid-19 were unforeseen by both consumers and by insurers. But
this doesnt mean her claim is automatically covered under her policy.
No insurance policy covers every situation, and an insurer is entitled to decide what level of
risk it is prepared to accept in return for the payment of a premium. Its up to a policyholder
to ensure they have a level of cover which meets their needs. The level of cover available
under travel insurance policies can vary widely and the fact that other policyholders may
have had their claims paid under different insurance policies with different terms and
conditions is of no relevance to Miss Is complaint. Instead, the question for me to consider is
whether I think URV acted fairly and reasonably when assessing Miss Is claim under the
terms and conditions of the policy she holds.
I understand Miss I held a Premier insurance policy, but its not my role to tell insurers what
risks I think they should cover, and URV is under no obligation to offer any more
comprehensive level of cover than what it has chosen to provide.
URVs obligations under its contract with Miss I are limited by the terms, conditions and
exclusions which are set out in her policy. Miss Is policy, at page 22 under the heading If
you need to come home early (Policy B Section 4) says URV will pay for certain costs if a
policyholder returns home early for one of the following reasons:
 because of the death, injury or illness of:
you or a friend with whom you are travelling
a close relative who lives in your home country
a close business associate who lives in your home country
a friend who lives abroad and with whom you were intending to stay
or
you, a friend or close relative who is travelling with you being required in your
home country for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law.
or
you, a friend or close relative who is travelling with you being called back by the
Police after your home, or the home in your home country of your friend or close
relative, or usual place of business in your home country, having suffered from
burglary, serious fire, storm or flood.
or
you are unable to remain in your booked destination because of a force majeure
event.
The only listed, insured event under this section of the policy which I think Miss Is claim
could potentially fall under is the final bullet point quoted above which references a force
majeure event.
Miss Is policy defines a force majeure as:
War, invasion, acts of foreign enemy, hostilities, or warlike operation (whether war
be declared or not), civil war, mutiny, military rising, insurrection, rebellion, revolution,
military or usurped power, climatic conditions and acts of nature.
Our investigator thought that Covid-19 could be considered an act of nature. I dont intend to
make a finding on whether I think Covid-19 could, fairly and reasonably, constitute an act of
nature. This is because I dont think Miss Is claim is covered under the terms and conditions
of her policy for another reason.
Miss Is policy, at page 15 under the heading What is not covered, says:
We wont pay for: 
Delay, confiscation, detention, requisition, damage, destruction or any prohibitiveregulations by Customs or other government officials or authorities of any
country.
Miss Is trip was cut short because the government in the country she was visiting imposed
restrictions on movement, closed ski resorts and asked visitors to leave the area. So, I think
Miss Is claim resulted from the imposition of prohibitive regulations by a government of
another country and, so, I think the claim falls within this policy exclusion.
Miss I has referenced a provision in her policy which mentions that claims due to the fear of
a pandemic arent covered. Miss I says this therefore implies that claims arising from an
actual pandemic would be covered. However, the level of cover under a travel insurance
policy is defined, not just by any policy exclusions, but also by the listed, insured events
which are set out as covered under each section of the policy. If the circumstances of a
claim dont fit within one of the listed, insured events then, generally, that claim wouldnt be
covered under the policy. Ive reviewed Miss Is insurance policy in its entirety, and I dont
think she held cover under any section of the policy for the circumstances she found herself
in.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss I. I understand she had little choice but to cut her holiday short.
However, I dont think her claim is covered under her policy and I dont think there are any
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV to pay her claim.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Miss Is complaint. URV responded to 
my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Miss I responded to reiterate 
that shed purchased URVs highest level of cover in the belief that it would cover all 
eventualities, and that this policy was recommended by independent third parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In URVs correspondence with Miss I, it mentioned other (higher priced) policies which would 
have provided cover for her situation. As I understand it, URV wasnt offering the level of 
cover it mentioned under any of its policies when Miss I bought her insurance. So, I think 
when URV said this, it was referring to different travel insurance policies provided by 
different insurers other than URV. 
Miss I says she believed the policy she purchased would cover all eventualities. But, 
unfortunately, it doesnt. No insurance policy covers everything and URV isnt obliged to offer 
cover for risks which it doesnt wish to insure  regardless of how the policy is branded. The 
fact that this policy may have been recommended by third party organisations doesnt have 
any bearing on whether I think URV acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Miss Is 
claim. And, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think URV did act unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
This means I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Is complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman