DRN-2504590
The complaint
Miss J complains about three loans that she took out with Oakam Limited, which she said
were unaffordable. The complaint has been brought to this service on Miss Js behalf by her
partner. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Miss J.  
What happened
Miss J was given three instalment loans by Oakam from April 2016 to November 2016.
Loan 3 hasnt been repaid and has been sold to a third party, (T). A summary of the loans
taken out by Miss J is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount Number of fortnightly 
repayments 
1. 21/4/16 12/7/16 £200 7
2. 12/7/16 31/10/16 £400 7
3. 4/11/16 Unpaid £500 13
Miss J complains that Oakam gave her consecutive loans which were unaffordable. This 
caused her to default on her third loan with Oakam. In addition, she was experiencing 
financial difficulty at the time. She had several payday loans at the same time. She didnt 
believe Oakam had carried out proper credit checks before making the decision to lend to 
her. She wanted interest and charges on the loans repaid and the outstanding balance on 
Loan 3 written off.
In its final response letter, Oakam said that Loans 1 and 2 were provided responsibly 
because: 
 - Miss J was able to repay the loans without difficulty as was evidenced by her positive 
repayment history
 - The credit files it obtained showed no signs of arrears or defaulted accounts registered in 
over 15 months prior to the application.  
 - It obtained details about Miss Js income and expenditure on each application and  
obtained Miss Js bank statement on 21 April 2016. 
 - Based on Miss Js confirmed income, the value of the instalments was never more than 
15% of Miss Js confirmed monthly income showing they were manageable. 
But Oakam offered to uphold Miss Js complaint about Loan 3 and offered to waive all 
interest applied to the loan. It said that Miss J had repaid part of the capital, but a balance of 
the capital lent still remained.
Miss J rejected Oakams offer.
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Js complaint should be upheld. 
Miss J disagreed with the adjudicators view. She said that at the time these loans were 
taken out, she was in financial difficulty and this could be seen in her credit files. She was 
heavily reliant on her overdraft and the credit limits on four credit cards were almost fully 
utilised. She had a defaulted loan account (in January 2015) and a defaulted payday loan (in 
October 2013). Miss J also had a log book loan. She also had other complaints with this 
Service which had been decided differently to this one.
Oakam said that the offer in its final response letter was still open.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to investigate.
my provisional conclusions 
After considering all the evidence, I issued my provisional decision on this complaint to   
Miss J and to Oakam on 9 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that Miss J had referred to other decisions of this Service. However, I said that we 
assess each case on its own merits and it wasnt appropriate to compare the outcomes of 
complaints as the circumstances might be very different.  
Id also noted that Oakam had offered to settle Loan 3. It said in its final response letter that 
based on the review of Miss Js application, it had found sufficient grounds to uphold        
Miss Js complaint about Loan 3. So, I said that I didnt propose to investigate Loan 3 but 
would include this Services usual redress for unpaid loans in my redress.
Id noted that for all of Miss Js loans the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I said that Oakam was required to establish whether Miss J could sustainably repay her 
loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Js complaint.
Oakam had told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss J. Id noted from Oakams 
records that it had details of Miss Js income as well as details about her expenses including 
other credit commitments. 
Id also noted that Oakam had carried out credit checks. Id seen a summary of its credit 
checks which Id referred to in my provisional decision. Id noted that these showed that  
Miss J didnt have a debt management plan, or a county court judgement registered against 
her and she wasnt bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement. 
Wed also received a credit report from Miss J. This showed that Miss J had taken out 
numerous loans and Id referred to these in my provisional decision. It also showed that  
Miss J had two defaulted accounts in October 2013 and January 2015. But I didnt think it 
was unreasonable for Oakam to be more interested in Miss Js recent credit history for the 
purposes of assessing whether the loans were affordable. 
Id thought about whether Oakams checks were proportionate for the loans. Id noted that 
for Loan 1, Miss J needed to make a highest equivalent monthly repayment of around £96 to 
repay the loan over 14 weeks. It seemed on the face of it that the repayments would have 
looked relatively modest compared to Miss Js declared income. However, I thought the 
information Oakam gathered should have raised concerns and prompted further checks. 
Oakam had told us about the checks it did before lending Loan 1 to Miss J. It had asked for 
her income which shed declared as £3,236. Oakam had obtained Miss Js bank statements 
for two months for proof of her income. Id asked the adjudicator to ask Oakam to provide us 
with copies of those statements. But these hadnt been received. Oakam had also asked 
Miss J for her regular outgoings and repayments on other loans. Oakams application form 
showed Miss Js expenses as around £2,475. It appeared that Miss J didnt declare any 
amount for credit commitments. But Oakam showed on its loan application that the credit 
checks showed loan repayments of £170.
I had seen a summary of Oakams credit checks. These showed that Miss J had 12 active 
accounts with around £8,870 outstanding. It also referred to five lines of credit being in 
arrears with around £4,680 in arrears. As Oakam was aware that Miss J had 12 active 
accounts, I thought it ought to have reasonably expected Miss Js expenditure on credit 
commitments to be somewhat higher than the amount of £170 it had referred to and the zero amount declared by Miss J. Miss J might not have disclosed the extent of her existing credit 
to Oakam but the information the lender had available to it clearly showed this. Id also 
thought the results of Oakams credit checks ought to have given it concerns that Miss J 
already had five accounts in arrears, that her finances might be under pressure and there 
was a real risk that Miss J wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay Loan 1. Altogether I 
thought Oakam ought to have been looking to build a clearer picture about Miss Js finances 
before lending to her. So, I didnt think it was reasonable for Oakam to agree to lend Loan 1 
to Miss J without further checks. I couldnt see that it had done this.
 
Id carefully looked at Miss Js credit report and her other complaints with this Service to see 
what better checks would have shown Oakam. Miss J wasnt able to provide this Service 
with her bank statements from the time. I could see that Miss J had two other payday loans 
which would have been repayable at the same time as Loan 1. In particular, Id noted that 
Miss J had taken out a payday loan for £500 three weeks earlier which was due to be repaid 
after Loan 1 had been taken out for which a repayment of around £612 was required. This 
payment alone exceeded Miss Js disposable income of around £590 shown on Oakams 
loan application. So, I thought better checks would have likely suggested to Oakam that  
Miss J wasnt in a position to sustainably repay further credit. So, I didnt think Oakam should 
have agreed to lend Loan 1 to Miss J.
Miss J had taken out Loan 2 on the day shed repaid Loan 1. The loan amount had doubled, 
and her monthly equivalent repayments had roughly doubled. I thought all this might have 
given Oakam concerns. 
Miss J had declared her income as £3,236, and her regular outgoings as around £2,180. It 
didnt appear that Oakam had obtained bank statements from Miss J on this occasion. It 
again appeared that Miss J didnt declare any amount for credit commitments. But Oakam 
showed on its loan application that the credit checks showed loan repayments of £293.
Id also noted that Oakam had carried out a credit check before Loan 2 and had seen a 
summary of that check. This showed that Miss J had 13 active accounts with around 
£10,970 outstanding. So, her borrowing had increased by more than £2,000 since taking out 
Loan 1. The credit check also referred to three lines of credit being in arrears with around 
£4,080 in arrears. The checks also showed that there had been 17 credit searches in the 
previous three months. Id thought Miss Js worsening credit situation might have concerned 
Oakam. 
As Oakam was aware that Miss J had 13 active accounts and increased borrowing, Id again 
thought it ought to have reasonably expected Miss Js expenditure on credit commitments to 
be somewhat higher than the amount of £293 it had referred to. And Oakam was again 
aware that Miss J was spending far more than shed declared to the lender on repaying 
existing credit.  Id also thought the results of Oakams credit checks ought to have given it 
concerns that Miss Js finances might still be under pressure. So, I didnt think it was 
reasonable for Oakam to have agreed to lend Loan 2 to Miss J without further checks. And I 
thought Oakam ought to have taken steps at that time to independently verify Miss Js true 
financial position. I couldnt see that it had done this.
 Id carefully looked at Miss Js credit report and her other complaints with this Service to see 
what better checks would have shown Oakam. I could see from the credit report that        
Miss Js credit card balances were around the credit limit on four credit cards. In addition, 
shed taken out three payday loans in the previous month totalling around £1,700 which 
were to be repaid at the same time as Loan 2. And Miss J had borrowed a further £1,100 the 
previous month on a log book loan from a high cost credit provider. I thought all this was 
likely to suggest that Miss J was having difficulties managing her money and that she wasnt 
in a position to sustainably repay further credit. So, I didnt think Oakam should have agreed 
to lend Loan 2 to Miss J.
 
Subject to any further representations by Miss J or Oakam my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part in respect of Loans 1 and 2. I intended to order 
Oakam Limited to put things right for Miss J in addition to what it had already offered to do in 
respect of Loan 3 as Ive set out below. 
Id noted that Miss J would have liked the balance on Loan 3 to be written off. But I didnt 
think that was reasonable here as Miss J had the use of the capital lent to her. Id also not 
seen anything else to make me think that would be appropriate.
In deciding what redress Oakam should fairly pay in this case Id thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent to Miss J, as I was satisfied it ought not to have lent to her. 
Clearly there were a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss J might have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she might 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she might have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which might or might not have been the same was 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Id seen in this case, I certainly didnt 
think I could fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss J in a compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, I was not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss J would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to reduce Oakams liability in this case for what I was 
satisfied it had done wrong and should put right.
Putting things right  what Oakam needs to do
Oakam should: 
a) refund the interest and fees Miss J paid for Loans 1 and 2; 
b) pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement; 
c) remove any adverse information about these loans from Miss Js credit file. 
I understood that Loan 3 hadnt been fully repaid. In order to put Miss J back into the position 
she would have been had Loan 3 not been agreed for her, Oakam needs to ensure that  
Miss J only repays the principal borrowed on this loan. In other words, she should not pay 
any interest or charges for Loan 3. So, Oakam needs to: 
d) remove any interest and charges applied to Loan 3; e) treat all payments that Miss J has made towards Loan 3 as payments towards the 
principal borrowed; 
f) remove any adverse information about Loan 3 from Miss Js credit file, once it has been 
settled
. 
If there is a capital balance outstanding on Loan 3 after steps d) and e) have been taken, 
Oakam can use the refunds from steps a) and b) above to reduce this balance and any 
remaining refund should be paid to Miss J. If after applying the refunds, there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then Oakam needs to treat Miss J fairly and sympathetically in 
this matter. This may mean agreeing a mutually agreeable repayment plan with her. 
As Loan 3 has been sold to T, then Oakam needs to buy this debt back before deducting 
any refunds. If it doesnt do this, or cant do this, then it needs to work with T to bring about 
steps d) to f) above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to take off tax from this interest. Oakam must 
give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. If Oakam 
intends to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Oakam responded to my provisional decision to say that it agreed with it. 
Miss J responded to my provisional decision to say that she agreed with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Miss J and Oakam have both agreed with my provisional decision and given me 
nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require Oakam to take 
the steps and pay Miss J some compensation as set out above under the heading Putting 
things right  what Oakam needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Oakam Limited to take the steps and pay Miss J some compensation as set out 
above under the heading Putting things right  what Oakam needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman