DRN-4376771
The complaint
Ms B complains about how PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA dealt with a dispute.
What happened
Ms B says she made two purchases for just over £35 and £46 from the same business but 
via its own website and from a website I will call E. She says she asked for the second 
purchase via E to be cancelled but was charged for it. Ms B says she received the first 
purchase but not the second and the seller provided PayPal with the delivery details from the 
first order of £35. She would like the money refunded and for PayPal to look at its process 
for this sort of complaint.
PayPal doesnt accept making a mistake. It says Ms B made the first payment of £35 then 
raised an item not received claim before closing it. It also says Ms B made a second 
purchase for £46 before raising a claim for that but says it was given tracking information 
providing evidence the item had been delivered.
Ms B brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it possible both items had been delivered at the same time using the same 
reference. The investigator didnt think it possible to be sure it had been agreed that Ms B 
would receive a refund for the £46 purchase.
Ms B doesnt accept that view and says both items were not in the one delivery and says 
she has now been refunded which must provide evidence of that.
My provisional view
I issued a provisional view and said I came to the provisional view that I didnt require 
PayPal to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint. But I had reached that 
view for different reasons to those of the investigator and thought it would be fair to allow 
both sides to comment further on this view if they wished.
I said I had no reason to conclude that both items were in the same delivery and accepted 
that the seller had not suggested that either.  I made that clear as I appreciated that was an 
important part of Ms Bs complaint here.
I looked through all of the documents about the dispute and the delivery details. I said I am 
sure Ms B appreciates that PayPal was given information that, on the face of it, provided 
evidence the disputed item was delivered. I could see that the tracking information was from 
the first delivery (£35) and not the disputed one for £46. But I couldnt fairly hold PayPal 
responsible for that as it was provided that information which on the face of it did confirm a 
delivery from the relevant seller. I accepted that Ms B explained the position to PayPal, but I 
thought it was reasonably entitled to conclude from the evidence that it received, not to 
proceed with Ms Bs complaint.
Overall, my provisional view was that the problem was caused not by PayPal but by the 
seller providing incorrect delivery details. I could see that Ms B has been refunded the 
money which I thought provided additional evidence that Ms B didnt receive the second 
purchase and that the seller must now accept that.
I appreciated Ms B would like PayPal to change the way in which it operates and to modify 
its appeal process. I said I understand her frustration here as it was clear it was not Ms Bs 
fault for what took place and that she tried unsuccessfully to explain what had taken place. 
But we are not PayPals regulator and its not our role to direct it about the way in which it 
operates. I accepted that with the benefit of looking back over this complaint, matters could 
have been dealt with more appropriately, but overall thought PayPal was reasonably entitled 
to conclude at the time the item had been delivered.
Ms B has replied to my provisional view and says PayPals process is at fault and says she 
gave information to it from the seller. She also maintains both items were not in the same 
package.
PayPal has not replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional view 
and for the same reasons. I make clear that I accept both items were not in the same 
package or delivered at the same time. I also accept that Ms B is not at fault here and 
appreciate her frustration with what took place. But as I made clear in my provisional 
decision its not our role to direct a business about its process as here or direct it to change 
the way in which it operates.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman