DRN-2051394
The complaint
 Mr K is unhappy about the way HSBC UK plc trading as first direct carried out an account 
review and with the service it provided in relation to this. 
What happened
 Mr K received a voicemail in January 2020 asking him to call first direct. He didnt recognise 
the number. He received a text message later that day asking him to call a specific number. 
As first directs website claims that it works 24.7, Mr K called back later in the early 
evening. He waited on hold for nearly five minutes, then hung up. He sent a secure message 
to find out why this happened and why first direct wanted to speak to him. 
first direct said the calling hours should have been on the text message and the voicemail. It 
had wanted to speak to him about an account review. Mr K said these errors had wasted his 
time. He also complained about grammatical errors in the correspondence from first direct.
first direct called Mr K and carried out the account review on 9 January 2020. Mr K made a 
second complaint about this review. He says the purpose of the review wasnt properly 
explained to him. He says that the questioning was aggressive and invasive. The questions 
made him feel like a criminal. He also says he feels he was racially discriminated against. He 
complained during the call. The call handler arranged for a call back. Mr K was upset that 
this happened outside the agreed time.
first direct acknowledged the administrative errors in contacting him. In relation to the call 
itself, it thought that the call handler could have been clearer at times in the account review. 
It did not agree that she had been rude. It stated that account reviews took place across its 
customer base and were not racially motivated. It paid £20 for the first part of the complaint 
and offered £200 for the second part. 
Mr K was not happy with this. He felt it did not deal properly with the complaint about the 
account review. He complained to this service, wanting more compensation and the call 
handler to be sacked.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC should do any more here, as what it had offered was fair. 
In summary, after listening to the call, he felt that the call handler had explained its purpose. 
He felt that while parts of the call could have been more sensitively handled, he did not think 
that the call recording showed that the call handler had been rude or intrusive, or that Mr K 
had been discriminated against. The investigator said that he did not have the power to tell 
first direct to dismiss the call handler.  
Mr K was unhappy with this view, and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Starting with the first part of the complaint, I think the £20 paid is fair and reasonable. I can 
understand why Mr K was annoyed. It must have been frustrating and confusing to receive 
messages that didnt give him much information. And I can understand that his previous 
experiences meant that this was particularly concerning. But looking at things from both 
sides, first direct had a legitimate reason for wanting to speak to him, and it will sensibly be 
careful about giving potentially sensitive information in messages. 
In relation to the grammatical errors Mr K noticed, although they are not what a customer 
would expect, I dont think they would have caused any misunderstanding. Because of this, I 
am satisfied that £20 is an appropriate amount so I will not be asking first direct to pay any 
more for this.
In terms of the review call itself, I am satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for first direct to 
carry out a review. First Direct explained that it conducts reviews to meet its regulatory 
obligations and Mr K now accepts that this is the case.
I have listened to the recording of the call that Mr K complains about. I heard the call handler 
explain the purpose of the call. She told Mr K that the purpose was to verify the information 
first direct holds about Mr K, and to understand the purpose behind some of the payments 
going in and out of the account. She explained that first direct needed to know this to satisfy 
its regulatory obligations. I think this was a clear explanation. 
The call handler asked Mr K questions about his accounts and some of the payments that 
passed through them. Mr K was unhappy with the questions asked and questioned why first 
direct needed to know where he held savings and other accounts elsewhere. The call 
handler explained that the questions were to understand his overall financial picture. When 
Mr K complained, she arranged for her manager to call Mr K back. 
I dont think the call handler was rude, she was polite throughout the call. I understand that 
Mr K felt discriminated against but I didnt hear anything to suggest that first direct was 
treating Mr K differently to other customers who may be in the same situation. I understand 
that Mr K found the questions intrusive, but banks are entitled to ask customers for 
information when they have a good reason for doing so - which first direct did in this case. 
So I dont think that first direct acted unreasonably or unfairly in relation to the account 
review call. I think that the call handler could have been a bit clearer in places, but I didnt 
hear anything that would cause a misunderstanding.
Putting things right
 first direct has accepted that there were some failings in relation to the overall service 
around the review and has offered £200 in compensation for the issues around this call.  It 
has confirmed that this is still available. I am satisfied that this a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation for the service issues. 
As previously stated by the investigator, this service does not have the power to tell a 
business to dismiss an employee, so I have nothing further to say on this point.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I am upholding Mr Ks complaint in relation to the service issues mentioned above. 
I require first direct to pay £200 to Mr K as compensation for the service issues he 
experienced, as it has already offered to do.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman