DRN-3245578
The complaint
Mr V complains about the valuation U K Insurance Limited (UKI) placed on his car after a 
claim made on his motor insurance policy and that it made deductions from his settlement. 
He wants UKI to pay him the cars full value and compensate him for his trouble and upset.
What happened
Mr Vs car broke down and he called for roadside assistance. The recovery agent dropped 
his car and UKI decided that it was a total loss. UKI assessed the cars market value as 
£11,682. But it made deductions from this settlement: £2,429 for a fault with the gearbox; 
£2,337 because the car was a previous total loss; and, £50 because the car didnt have a 
current MOT. Mr V was unhappy with the valuation and that UKI had made deductions.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought the 
valuation of the cars market value had been made correctly according to our approach. And 
she thought the deductions for the previous total loss and lack of MOT were fair and 
reasonable. But she thought UKI hadnt provided satisfactory expert documentary evidence 
to show the gearbox issue was the cause of the breakdown and whether it was repairable or 
not. So she thought UKI should reimburse Mr V £2,429 and pay him £100 for his trouble and 
upset. 
UKI replied that Mr V had called for recovery because the car had lost drive and showed 
warning lights. The recovery agent made a visual inspection and diagnosed an internal 
gearbox issue. UKI said this would be shown on the breakdown report, though it hadnt had 
sight of this. It said this issue was due to mechanical failure and so not covered by the 
policy. Because the car was deemed a total loss, UKI hadnt stripped the car down to 
investigate this further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr V wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. I can see that his 
policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. The investigator has 
explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but 
look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
The investigator thought UKIs initial assessment of the cars market value was fair and 
reasonable. So Ive also checked this. I can see that UKI obtained three valuations from the 
motor trade guides we use for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage, condition and 
optional extras as Mr Vs. It then took an average of these valuations and reached £11,682. I 
think this was fair and reasonable as it was made correctly according to our approach and in 
keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
UKI then made deductions from this amount. It deducted 20% because the car was a 
previous total loss. Im satisfied that this was fair and reasonable as this would reduce the 
cars appeal and its in keeping with our approach. And it deducted £50 because there was 
no current MOT. Mr V said he was taking the car for its MOT. But this had expired the 
previous month. So I think this deduction was fair and reasonable. 
UKI then deducted 50% of the cost for a replacement gearbox, £2,429. Where there is 
previous unrelated damage, we think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to deduct half the 
repair cost from the settlement. 
But we dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a 
matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role 
in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all the 
available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to make a deduction for unrelated 
repairs. So Ive looked at the evidence UKI relied on to decide to make this significant 
deduction from Mr Vs settlement. 
Mr V told UKI that he called for recovery as he thought the cars battery may have been 
playing up as he hadnt used it for a few weeks. He said he was in the process of taking the 
car for its MOT. UKI reasonably asked him for a report from the recovery agent to validate 
this. UKIs file notes that,
For the claim to be processed we require a copy of the Recovery Agents Worksheet which 
will have been completed by the engineer in attendance showing the reason why they had to 
attend PHV and what the mechanical problems were on the car prior to the incident.
Mr V provided UKI and us with a copy of the breakdown report and photographs he had 
received from the recovery agent. This didnt provide any details of the cause of the 
breakdown. The recovery company told him that it didnt have any further information. And 
Ive seen this evidenced by an email from it to Mr V. 
UKI relied on an email the recovery company sent to its agent, which had caused the 
damage and admitted liability for this. The email said the callout was due to the car losing 
power and warning lights showing. It said the engineer had diagnosed internal gearbox 
issues, but these needed to be further investigated in a garage. And so UKI decided that the 
car needed a replacement gearbox and it deducted half this cost, £2,429, from Mr Vs 
settlement.
So UKI made its decision in the absence of the engineers worksheet it thought should have 
been available. Mr V had asked the recovery company for any diagnostic reports, but it said 
these werent available. Mr V said hed invited UKI to inspect his car, or arrange for a garage 
to do this, but it had declined to do so. 
So I cant say that UKI had sufficient, reliable, documented expert evidence to justify its 
decision that the car had gearbox issues and that the gearbox needed to be replaced. So I 
think it was unfair for UKI to deduct half the cost of a new gearbox from Mr Vs settlement. 
And I think it should reimburse him £2,429. 
Mr V has been put to considerable trouble and upset by UKIs handling of his claim. I think 
this could have been avoided if UKI had sought better evidence to justify its deduction. Our 
investigator recommended that UKI should pay Mr V £100 compensation for this. I think 
thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to reimburse Mr V £2,429 for making an unfair deduction 
from his settlement and to pay him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman