DRN-3570712
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Handelsbanken plc insisted on an affordability check to switch to 
a new mortgage interest rate product and unfairly declined their application.
What happened
In 2015, Mr and Mrs T took out an interest only mortgage with Handelsbanken. Most of the 
mortgage (main balance) was on an interest rate of 3.14%, fixed for ten years. An early 
repayment charge (ERC) applied if the mortgage was repaid during the tie-in period. The 
remaining balance was on a variable interest rate.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs T switched the part of their mortgage to a ten-year fixed interest rate 
with Handelsbanken without any affordability checks being carried out.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs T asked for the main balance of the mortgage to be switched to a new 
ten-year fixed interest rate product. They were happy to pay the ERC as the new product 
had a lower interest rate that would save them money overall.
Handelsbanken insisted on assessing whether the switch was affordable. But when it carried 
out an affordability assessment, it declined the application. It said that the Mr and Mrs Ts 
expenditure was greater than their income, their circumstances had changed significantly 
since the mortgage was agreed and it had concerns about their repayment strategy.
Mr and Mrs T consider that Handelsbanken hasnt treated them fairly for a number of 
reasons, including:
When they were sold the mortgage it was on the basis that they could change the 
mortgage product provided the ERC was paid.
This is supported by the fact that in 2017 they were able to switch the interest rate 
product on part of their mortgage without any affordability checks.
Handelsbanken had previously told them that an affordability assessment wasnt 
required.
There is no regulatory requirement to carry out an affordability checks where there is no 
material change to affordability as in this case.
The request to switch mortgage products was to make the mortgage more affordable.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept what the investigator said. They said, in summary:
They would have saved more than £155,000 over the ten-year fixed rate and it would 
have protected them against inflation (and a likely increase in interest rates).
The decision mean that they will have to sell their home as soon as possible and they 
wont be able to afford the repayments when the initial fixed rate ends. That cant have 
been the intention of the MCOB rules.
Handelsbanken had a duty to act in their best interests. It was clearly in their best 
interest to pay the ERC and switch to a lower fixed interest rate.
Handelsbanken isnt allowed to make a new mortgage product conditional on the 
repayment strategy being acceptable to it.
The reason they are in this position is because they caught Handelsbanken manipulating 
the interest rates on offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint I must take into account the relevant rules and regulations (amongst other things). 
That includes MCOB and the FCAs high level principles.
Mr and Mrs T are correct that MCOB 11.6.3 allows lenders to allow variations to a mortgage 
without complying with the usual affordability requirements, providing that there is no 
additional borrowing and there is no material change to affordability. It is accepted that Mr 
and Mrs T did not want to increase the amount they were borrowing and that there was no 
material change to affordability.
The rules do not, however, prevent a lender from carrying out an affordability check  even if 
there is no additional borrowing or material change to affordability. In many cases, if 
affordability alone was a concern, we might consider it was reasonable for the lender to use 
the discretion it has under MCOB to approve the variation. The rules also do not prevent 
lenders from taking into account other factors not related to affordability when deciding 
whether to approve a new mortgage product. 
The circumstances in this case werent straightforward:
Mr and Mrs T had taken a payment holiday in 2018 and agreed a repayment plan for the 
shortfall. But Mr and Mrs T werent able to make all of the payments due under the plan.
The information Handelsbanken had about Mr and Mrs Ts income and expenditure 
showed a deficit. 
A significant ERC of over £50,000 would be payable if Mr and Mrs T redeemed the 
existing mortgage and took out a new product. 
The original repayment vehicle is no longer viable.
Handelsbanken had reasonable concerns about the proposed repayment vehicles. 
Converting the basement of Mr and Mrs Ts house would involve costs and splitting the 
title of the secured property, which would affect Handelsbankens security. It also had 
legitimate concerns about whether Mr Ts pension would repay the mortgage.
I consider that the arrears alone were sufficient reason for Handelsbanken to legitimately decline the application for a new loan. That is a valid reason that isnt caught by MCOB 
11.6.3.
It would be difficult for me to make the argument that switching the mortgage product was in 
Mr and Mrs Ts best interests overall. The benefit to them is the reduction in overall 
payments. But it was reasonable for Handelsbanken to take into account the arrears, that 
their expenditure exceeds their income, that they would incur a significant ERC if the 
mortgage was repaid and that Handelsbanken has legitimate concerns about their proposed 
repayment vehicle. Overall I dont consider that a product switch, incurring an ERC and tying 
Mr and Mrs T into another product with an ERC was in their best interests. 
Mr and Mrs T had a contractual right to redeem the mortgage upon paying an ERC. But 
there is no obligation under the contract for Handelsbanken to offer them a new product in 
these circumstances. I consider that Handelsbanken has made a fair and reasonable 
decision in the individual circumstances of this case. 
The fact that Handelsbanken allowed Mr and Mrs T to switch the smaller part of their 
mortgage in 2017 without any affordability checks doesnt mean that it was unreasonable for 
it to carry out such checks here or that its decision here was flawed. I note the mortgage 
didnt have arrears in 2017. 
I cant see any evidence that the point Mr and Mrs T have made about manipulation of 
interest rates has affected the decision that Handelsbanken made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman