DRN-3084921
The complaint
Mr B says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
  
What happened
Mr B bought the PPI in January 1998, with a new credit card. 
Our adjudicator, who recently reassessed this case, thought the PPI had been mis-sold. 
Nationwide didnt agree the policy was mis-sold. It asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, I am upholding the 
complaint.
I can see the records show Mr B applied for his credit card through the post. When he was 
completing his application Mr B was given two choices in relation to adding on PPI. He 
chose the yes option, but I note the description of the PPI at this point was very brief 
indeed. I think significant features of the cover, such as how interest was added to the PPI 
charges, and that payments for the PPI still would be taken during a period where a 
successful claim had been made, were difficult to find.
However, in my view, the crux of this case is Mr Bs health situation at the point of sale. The 
PPI rules about claiming for illness said that no claim could be successful for a medical 
condition which:
(1) You were aware of at the commencement date, or (2) You have suffered from in the 12 
months immediately before the concernment date
 
I believe Mr B would have been caught by the first part of these rules. He told us hed had a 
nose operation in 1987. However, hed had to have another nose operation again  the 
same procedure  in 1995, because the condition he suffered from was ongoing. On the first 
occasion he had needed to be off work for a week  and for the second, two weeks.
I dont believe Nationwide made the exclusions or limitations of the PPI policy clear enough 
at the point of sale or asked him enough questions about his health. And in Mr Bs case, I 
think this would have mattered; I think hed have wanted a policy that protected him for the 
very condition he probably thought would most likely cause him potential health problems in 
the future. As this condition was excluded under the wide policy exclusions about pre-
existing health matters, I think hed have considered the PPI largely a waste of money. In 
short, I dont think he would have bought the policy if things had been set out more clearly 
for him.
Ive looked at what Nationwide says about Mr Bs pre-existing health which I think both 
underestimates the condition and generally misses the point. Nationwide makes a number of 
unqualified assumptions about the condition and said it did not seem to have affected his 
day to day working life and therefore, we will not consider it any further. It later also referred 
to condition not being life threatening.
In my view these tests, applied by Nationwide, are completely irrelevant and have no 
apparent relationship to Nationwides own policy rules, mentioned above. I can see no 
reference to day to day working life, for example, in the rules and Nationwide seems 
therefore to be applying completely different tests. It also believes Mr B would have probably 
been able to make a successful claim, an assertion I disagree with given the policy rules Ive 
set out above.
So, in my view, the policy exclusions were very wide. As such they would have most likely 
prevented a successful claim had Mr B needed to take time off work again for this condition 
 one he had already had two operations for and had needed to take several weeks off work. 
Nationwide failed in its duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr B in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. Nationwide should find out how much Mr B would owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it. It should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were 
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Nationwide should then refund the difference between what Mr B owes and what he 
would have owed. If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, nationwide 
can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If when Nationwide works out what Mr B would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr B paid more than enough to clear his balance, Nationwide should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr B wouldve owed Nationwide something on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C. Nationwide should tell Mr B what its done to work out A and B and it can take off the 
commission element it has already paid him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Nationwide Building Society and require it to pay the 
compensation set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman