DRN-3469417
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, approved him for a loan 
irresponsibly in 2015 and should have been aware of his gambling addiction at that time.
What happened
In March 2015, Mr S applied to Halifax for a personal loan for £4,000 to be repaid over five 
years. Mr Ss application was approved, and the loan capital was provided to him by Halifax.
In early 2021, Mr S raised a complaint with Halifax because he felt the approval of the loan 
in 2015 was irresponsible, given his personal and financial circumstances at that time, which 
included that he was suffering with a gambling addiction which Mr S felt Halifax should have 
been aware of, had they undertaken checks into his financial position before approving the 
loan.
Halifax looked at Mr Ss complaint. They confirmed they had undertaken checks into his 
financial position before approving the loan, and they felt there hadnt been anything 
resulting from those checks that should have given them cause to suspect that Mr S might 
not have been able to afford the loan or that he might have had a gambling addiction such 
that the loan shouldnt have been approved.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Halifax had acted 
unfairly towards Mr S by approving the loan in 2015, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit such as a personal loan, the business would undertake 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is 
affordable for that customer at that time.
 
Halifax believe that they did that here, and note that at the time of the application they took 
information from Mr S directly about his employment status and annual income, as well as 
obtained information about Mr S from a credit reference agency so as to get a better 
understanding of his wider financial position. And Halifax maintain that there was nothing 
resulting from that information that they feel should have given them any reasonable cause 
to believe that Mr S might not be able to afford the credit he was subsequently approved for.
It's notable that at the point of application, Mr S declared net income of £3,500 per month 
and advised that his mortgage payment was £773 per month. Additionally, Halifaxs credit 
file checks suggested that Mr S was paying approximately £996 per month towards his other 
existing credit commitments, and Halifax modelled a figure of £433 per month for Mr Ss 
essential spending. This amounts to a total monthly spend for Mr S of approximately £2,200.
While Mr Ss existing credit repayments of £996 a month does seem somewhat high, the 
total amount of calculated monthly spend is well below the £3,500 net monthly income 
declared by Mr S. And given that the repayments for the loan were scheduled to be roughly 
£120 per month, I can understand why Halifax felt that these repayments would in all 
likelihood be affordable for Mr S given his apparent disposable income of £1,300 per month.
Halifax also said that Mr Ss credit file didnt provide any indications of potential financial 
difficulty such as missed or late payments, regular use of payday loans, or defaulted 
accounts. Halifax havent been able to provide a copy of the credit file information they 
assessed, although this isnt unusual given the length of time thats elapsed since that 
assessment. And while a review of a copy of Mr Ss more recent credit file doesnt provide a 
full picture of what Halifax would have seen when assessing Mr Ss credit file in 2015, 
theres nothing present on Mr Ss more recent credit file that contradicts Halifaxs position.
As such, Im satisfied that there wasnt anything resulting from the checks that Halifax 
undertook into Mr Ss financial position before approving the loan that should reasonably 
have given them cause to suspect that Mr S might have been struggling financially such that 
the loan shouldnt have been approved.
Im aware that Mr S feels that Halifax should have reviewed his current account statements 
before approving the loan, and that if they had they would have seen a large number of 
gambling transactions present on those statements which would have alerted them to the 
gambling addiction that Mr S was suffering with at that time.
I can appreciate Mr Ss position here. But Halifax were only required to undertake 
reasonable and proportionate checks into his financial position before approving the loan. 
And Im satisfied that the checks that Halifax did undertake in 2015 were reasonable and 
proportionate in consideration of the relatively moderate size of the loan that Mr S was 
applying for at that time.
Had Mr S been applying for a significantly larger amount of credit, or had there been 
anything resulting from the checks that Halifax did undertake that should reasonably have 
been of concern, then I would have expected Halifax to have undertaken more detailed 
checks into Mr Ss financial position, almost certainly including a review of Mr Ss current 
account statements.
But as explained, I dont feel that these further checks were incumbent on Halifax in 2015, 
given the size of the loan being applied for, and given the seemingly unproblematic nature of 
the information about Mr Ss financial position that Halifax had already gathered and 
assessed. 
So, while it may have been the case that a review of Mr Ss current account statements by 
Halifax would have resulted in Mr Ss gambling addiction coming to light in 2015, I dont feel 
that such review of Mr Ss current account statements by Halifax was merited at that time. 
Consequently, I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably censure Halifax for not being aware 
that Mr S might have had a gambling addition at the time of the loan application, and this is 
because, as explained, Im satisfied that there was nothing in the information that Halifax did 
assess that suggested such a gambling addiction, and because Im satisfied that it wasnt incumbent on Halifax to have undertook any further checks beyond those that they did 
undertake before approving the loan.
Of course, this isnt to say that Mr S wasnt struggling with a gambling addiction in 2015 such 
that the receipt of further credit by him at that time wasnt detrimental to him. Its only to say 
that I dont feel it was unreasonable or unfair that Halifax to have approved Mr Ss loan 
application based on the information they assessed and understood at that time, which 
unfortunately, but understandably, didnt include that Mr S may have had a gambling 
addiction.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but it follows from the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any further action at this 
time. I hope that Mr S will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman