DRN-3239877
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the service Barclays Bank UK PLC provided when she applied for 
permission to let her property.
What happened
Miss M has a residential mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC. She wanted to let the 
property and required Barclays consent. In the first week of May 2021 Barclays sent Miss M 
a permission to let (PTL) application form. She completed it and sent it back in mid-May. But 
she didnt provide some of the required information and Barclays wrote to her asking for that 
a few days later. Miss M spoke to them on the phone at the end of May.
Barclays required information by post. Miss M found the process stressful. And she felt 
Barclays should change their process to allow electronic communication as postal 
communication made things difficult for her and led to delay. Miss M complained to Barclays.
Barclays apologised that they were only able to accept applications by post. They explained 
they couldnt process Miss Ms application because she hadnt provided all the information 
they required about the proposed letting. Miss M wasnt happy with their response to her 
complaint, so she brought it to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt uphold 
Miss Ms complaint, so Ive reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Miss Ms difficult situation and the stress shes been under. I can 
understand it was frustrating and inconvenient for Miss M that Barclays were only able to 
correspond about the proposed letting of her property by post. I cant ask Barclays to change 
their processes. But I can consider whether, given their processes, theyve treated Miss M 
fairly and reasonably. 
Im aware Miss M was able to correspond by post even though she found it inconvenient. 
Barclays provided Miss M with an application form for PTL shortly after shed first contacted 
them about letting her property at the end of April 2021. And they wrote to her within a few 
days of her returning the completed application form letting her know they needed additional 
information. That information included the basis on which the property would be let, an 
expected start date and whether she planned to move back into the property.  I know Miss M 
felt she needed to know if Barclays would allow her PTL before she could provide the 
details. But I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to want answers to their questions 
as what she said could affect their decision to give PTL. 
I can see Barclays spoke to Miss M about the information they needed at the end of May. 
And they set it out clearly in their response to her complaint in early June. Miss M brought 
her complaint to this service shortly afterwards.
I can see Miss M wrote to Barclays after shed brought her complaint to this service in 
response to their request for information. She was unhappy they didnt reply. Barclays said 
later she needed to make a fresh application because of the time that had passed. 
These events arent part of what Im considering as they came after Miss Ms complaint. 
However, I note Miss M gave information about her own occupation of the property when 
she wrote to Barclays in June rather than the basis on which she planned to let the property. 
If Miss Ms application hasnt now progressed, Id encourage the parties to discuss things 
direct to resolve any misunderstandings and move things forward as soon as possible.
Overall, considering the issues in this complaint, I dont think the timescales were 
unreasonable or that Barclays delayed things. And I dont think Barclays treated Miss M 
unfairly. So, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Miss M, I dont uphold her 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman