DRN-3990018
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about the standard of repairs that were carried out in his bathroom following 
a leak.  Mr B had a home insurance policy with Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral).
What happened
Mr B made a claim to Admiral when he identified a leak in his bathroom. He explained that 
floor tiles would need to be removed to access the leak and there was other damage to 
floorboards and joists.
As requested by Admiral, Mr B sent in quotes to Admiral for the remediation work required. 
After some initial communication difficulties, Admiral reviewed the information sent in and 
appointed a loss adjuster to review and validate the claim.
The loss adjuster arranged for the property to be dried. Reinstatement works were put on 
hold at the request of Mr B, while he had some other work completed on his property. But 
the reinstatement works were then completed.
Mr B complained about the standard of the works carried out by Admirals appointed 
contractors. Admiral subsequently arranged for some of the works to be fixed. However, Mr 
B remained unhappy that the shower tray was not installed level. He said the wet wall board 
was not properly located in the corner trim. Mr B said the shower started leaking from behind 
the shower board at the near right-hand corner. 
Admiral said its loss adjuster, contractors and technical team reviewed the outstanding 
issue, but concluded the issues Mr B was facing were stemming from a building defect, 
notably that the floor in the room wasnt level. Admiral have said Mr B was told by the 
contractors the floor wasnt level, but said he accepted that the works could proceed. Mr B 
denies this, he said the contractors poor workmanship had caused the shower to leak.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said Admiral had arranged for the 
defective work to be fixed. She thought the historic uneven floor level was causing the 
current issue with the leak in the shower rather than poor workmanship. She suggested Mr B 
may want to get his own surveyor to highlight any defective works if he wanted to 
demonstrate Admiral had acted incorrectly. Mr B disagreed, so the case has been referred to 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If an insurer appoints a contractor and their works dont meet a satisfactory standard, then it 
would be the insurers responsibility to put this right. I can see evidence there was several 
faults with the initial work carried out by Admirals contractors. However, it has been well 
documented by our investigator that Admiral arranged to correct these faults. I think its 
reasonable to allow an insurer to put right anything it got wrong. As Admiral has done this, I 
wont consider this point any further.
However, there was an outstanding issue with the shower that Mr B felt the contractors had 
caused. Mr B said this was causing his shower to leak. 
Therefore, Ive considered the evidence thats available to me to decide whether I think an 
historic issue was causing the problem with the shower or whether it was poor workmanship 
by the contractors when carrying out the remedial works. Unfortunately, due to a lack of 
expert independent opinion to prove poor workmanship was the cause of the outstanding 
issue, I wont be upholding this complaint. Whilst I cant be certain of this fact, I dont think on 
the balance of probabilities Mr B has proven that Admirals contractors caused the issue. 
Therefore, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Admiral to put this right.
Mr B has provided several photographs and his own testimony that Admirals contractors 
had caused the issue. However, Admirals appointed loss adjuster and technical team have 
arrived at a different view. Admiral said it had told Mr B about the uneven floor in his 
bathroom before they fitted his shower and asked him to have it fixed. Admiral said Mr B 
refused to do this. There is no real time written evidence of this conversation happening, 
only commentary recorded in Admirals claim notes later. However, I have seen evidence of 
internal dialogue discussing the issues with Mr Bs bathroom and the commentary Admiral 
provided to Mr B seems a fair summary of what its team considered to be the cause of the 
outstanding issue.
Admiral have said if Mr B provides his own independent expert report supporting his view of 
events that it would be happy to re-consider the outstanding point. I think this is fair. Mr B 
hasnt provided any further information to Admiral, and Im not persuaded by the information 
Mr B has presented so far (over that which Admiral has presented). So, I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Admiral to fix the issue. If Mr B provides new information to Admiral, I have no 
reason to doubt that it would still consider it. However, based on what has been presented, I 
dont uphold this complaint. If Mr B is later proved correct, then Admiral should refund any 
reasonable costs that Mr B incurs in obtaining an appropriate professional survey of the 
work.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman