DRN-3445810
The complaint
Mr C complains about charges ALD Automotive Limited told him to pay when his hire 
agreement ended. 
What happened
Mr C entered into a hire agreement with ALD for a new car. This was for a period of 36 
months, starting in July 2018. In August 2021 the car was inspected and returned to ALD by 
one of their agents.
Mr C told ALD he wasnt happy that the inspector had identified two marks on the car, which 
he considered to have been in showroom condition. He also said he should receive a refund 
for having done less than the contracted mileage due to COVID19. 
ALD said the damage would be reviewed and may not be charged. They responded to the 
point Mr C had raised about the mileage in a final response letter dated 9 August 2021. They 
said: there is no provision in your contract for any kind of retrospective rebate or refund 
against lower mileage after the agreement has ended. 
ALD also sent Mr C an invoice for charges totalling £585. The breakdown was as follows:
Rear Bumper Damage £65
Osr Qtr Panel Damage £120
No Service History £400.
 
Mr C complained to ALD about their charge for not supplying service records, saying hed 
had the car serviced at the required intervals. On 1 November 2021 ALD issued their final 
response to Mr C about this, saying his complaint hadnt been upheld because there was no 
service information in the vehicle when it was collected. Mr C brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator asked ALD for more information about the service history for the car. ALD 
offered to remove the charge for this, which resolved the issue for Mr C. 
In relation to Mr Cs other complaint points, our investigator didnt think ALD had acted 
unfairly in not reimbursing Mr C for mileage he didnt travel. She also didnt think the damage 
charges theyd applied were unreasonable. 
Mr C said there was no damage that could be seen by the naked eye - and ALD should be 
able to show invoices for any repairs theyd had to pay for. He said treating customers fairly 
wasnt just about looking at what was in the small print of the contract. Mr C felt it wasnt fair 
for ALD to profiteer from a pandemic, or to charge him for repairs they hadnt in fact had to 
pay for. He asked for an ombudsman to review whether hed been treated fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer hire agreements is a 
regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider this type of complaint.
ALD have agreed to remove the charge for the service history, so theres no need for me to 
further consider that issue.
Mileage
ALD have provided a copy of the hire agreement Mr C signed, which Ive read carefully. 
On the front page of this document, Ive seen that the contract allowed for a maximum of 
30,000 miles within the 36-month hire period. Ive also seen a copy of the inspection 
report, confirming the car had only travelled around 25,319 miles when ALD collected it.
 
I appreciate Mr C wasnt able to make as much use of the car as expected due to 
COVID19, which was outside his control.  He feels this situation wasnt covered in the 
contract because it was something ALD couldnt have foreseen.
 
Ive given careful thought to the point Mr C has made. But I note the agreement says:
ALD may vary the provisions relating to the Contract Mileage and/or the Agreement 
Term referred to on the front of this Agreement, but shall only do so pursuant to a request 
by the Customer.
So, Im satisfied the contract allowed Mr C to request a change to the contracted mileage if 
things changed unexpectedly during the 36-month hire period. And I do think he could have 
done that when he found he was no longer making as much use of the car. 
Ive seen no provision in the agreement for any allowance to be made if the car was returned 
with less than the maximum permitted mileage. I appreciate Mr C feels ALD have treated 
him fairly here, in line with their regulatory obligations. But I dont consider them to have 
treated him unfairly by declining to give him a rebate after the agreement had come to an 
end.
Damage charges
Having read the agreement Mr C signed, Ive seen that paragraph 2.5 lists things he was 
responsible for carrying out at his own expense. This includes:
(a) maintain the bodywork and the exterior and interior of the Vehicle in good 
condition, having regard to the age and mileage of the Vehicle. In assessing 
appropriate vehicle condition with regard to age and mileage, ALD will use the 
criteria set out in the definition of Fair Wear and Tear.
The definitions section of the agreement says Fair Wear and Tear means the most 
recent BVRLA guidelines. I consider these guidelines to represent good practice across 
the industry, giving descriptions of what should be considered fair wear and tear when a 
vehicle is returned. 
The evidence Ive seen confirms the car was three years old and had covered around 
25,319 miles at the time of the inspection. So Ive also thought about whats fair and 
reasonable for a car of this age and mileage.
Ive looked at what the BVRLA guidelines say about scratches to paintwork:Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing 
are acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface 
scratches on one panel is acceptable.
ALD have provided a copy of the inspection report dated 4 August 2021 and photos taken at 
the time. Ive seen a photo showing a scratch on the rear bumper, with a ruler positioned 
next to it. I can see this scratch was well in excess of 25mm long.
Ive also seen a photo showing a scratch to the right hand rear quarter panel. By reference 
to the ruler shown in this photo, I can see the scratch is well in excess of 25mm long.
 
Im satisfied that the scratches in these two areas fell outside the BVRLA guidelines for 
acceptable wear and tear. So I do consider it fair for ALD to charge Mr C for this damage.
Mr C says ALD should provide invoices showing the actual costs they incurred. But theres 
no rule or guidance requiring businesses to do this. The BVRLA guidelines say:
Charges can still be applied at end of lease where the leasing company decides for 
commercial reasons not to repair damage or to replace missing equipment before the 
vehicle is sold.
Ive seen there was damage to both the bumper and right hand rear quarter panel that would 
be considered more than fair wear and tear for a car of this age and mileage, so I dont find it 
unfair for ALD to charge Mr C for the cost of repairing those areas. I dont consider it 
necessary for them to show Mr C invoices to prove theyve incurred a loss here. Nor do I find 
the charges ALD applied to be unreasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
ALD have agreed to remove the charge for the service history, so theres no need for me to 
further consider that issue. But I do think it they should credit that amount as theyve said 
they would.
So, my decision is that, if they havent done so already, ALD Automotive Limited should 
remove the £400 charge for no service history.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman