DRN-4207767
The complaint
Mr H complains about his insurer, UK Insurance Limited trading as Darwin (Darwin), didnt 
provide a Green Card under his motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to Darwin in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
Mr H took out a motor insurance policy with Darwin in February 2023, with a start date in 
March 2023. In February 2023 Mr H was planning to travel abroad. Having looked on the 
government website about driving abroad, he thought Darwin had to provide him with a 
Green Card to drive in one of the countries he was planning to visit. However, when he 
contacted Darwin to ask for a Green Card he was told he wouldnt be covered under the 
policy to drive in the country concerned and would need to seek alternative cover for as and 
when he intended to drive there. Darwin referred Mr H to the policy booklet, which set out 
which countries he would (and wouldnt) be able to drive in under the policy.
 
Mr H provided Darwin with a link to the government website hed accessed which said he 
needed a Green Card. However, Darwin said they didnt provide Green Cards and he didnt 
need one due to a rule change in August 2021. Mr H reiterated what hed said about the 
need for a Green Card, but Darwin restated their position that they didnt issue Green Cards 
and he didnt need one. If he wanted to obtain cover for driving in the country he was 
planning to visit, he would need to obtain alternative cover.
Unhappy at what hed been told, Mr H complained to Darwin, who upheld the complaint. In 
their final response they said they were upholding the complaint because they didnt respond 
to two emails Mr H sent them questioning why he wasnt covered to drive in the country 
concerned. Darwin apologised for not responding and included the policy booklet in their 
response, which included a list of countries a policyholder could drive in. The list didnt 
include the country Mr H wanted to visit. So, as theyd previously advised, Mr H would need 
to seek additional cover elsewhere.
Mr H then complained to this service. He said Darwins refusal to provide Green Card meant 
he would have to delay his trip, as he was planning to visit for a religious holiday. He didnt 
think he would be able to purchase insurance over the holiday period at the border of the 
country he wanted to visit.  He had tried other ways of obtaining insurance ahead of his 
planned trip but hadnt been able to arrange cover. He could either obtain a Green Card or 
try to obtain cover at the border to enter the country  which would be likely to be expensive, 
even if it were possible. This had ben very stressful for him and he thought Darwin werent 
following government rules. He wanted Darwin to provide him with a Green Card or 
compensation to cover the cost, time and stress hed suffered.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Darwin didnt need to take any 
further action. The investigator could see Mr H wasnt covered for driving in the particular 
country concerned and was told this by Darwin in February 2023 (and that hed need to take 
out additional insurance to do so). As the policy didnt cover driving in the country 
concerned, it wasnt reasonable for Darwin to issue a Green Card.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He provided a link to the government website, which he said meant Darwin had to 
issue him with a Green Card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Darwin has acted fairly towards Mr H.
The main issue in Mr Hs complaint is Darwin saying they wont provide a Green Card to 
enable Mr H to travel to (and drive in) a particular foreign country. Mr H says the guidance 
hes seen on the government website is that Darwin should provide him with a  Green Card. 
Darwin say the policy makes it clear it doesnt cover driving in the country concerned, so Mr 
H should seek alternative cover elsewhere. Darwin also say a Green Card isnt required in 
any event.
Given what Darwin have said, Ive fist looked at what the policy booklet contains. Theres a 
section headed Section G Territorial limits and foreign use which contains a sub section 2 
Using your car abroad which states the following:
 This policy also provides the minimum cover you need by law to use your car in:
any country which is a member of the European Union; and
any country listed below which the Commission of the European Community 
approves as meeting the requirements of Article 8 of EC Directive 
2009/103/EC on Insurance of Civil Liabilities arising from using motor 
vehicles.
Countries included:
[list of countries]
Looking at the statement and list of countries, while it includes countries through which Mr h 
would be likely to drive to get the particular country at issue, that country is not included 
under either part of the section above.
Mr H would have been provided with a copy of the policy booklet when he took out his 
policy, the welcome email referring to the My Policy site where Mr H could access all the 
policy documents, including the policy booklet. I think it would have been clear from the 
policy booklet his policy wouldnt cover him driving in the particular country concerned. That 
being the case, what he was told by Darwin about the policy not covering driving in the 
country (and having to seek alternative cover elsewhere) was correct and in line with the 
policy terms . 
It follows from this that Darwin would have no obligation to issue a Green Card for driving in 
the particular country concerned (irrespective of what the government website might 
suggest). 
Ive also noted Mr H was told by Darwin in February 2023 that driving in the particular 
country wouldnt be covered. As this was before the policy was due to start, Mr H would 
have had the opportunity to cancel the policy and seek alternative cover (including travel to 
the particular country concerned). And the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
that sets out the key features of the policy, states under the heading Where am I covered, cover extends to Great Britain, Northern Ireland, the Republic of Ireland, the Isle of Man and 
the Channel Islands. So, it doesnt say cover extends to the particular country concerned.
Ive also looked at the government website Mr H believes requires insurers to issue a Green 
Card. Looking at the site it states a Green Card isnt required to be carried when driving in 
the EU and several other countries. But the list doesnt include the particular country 
concerned. The site goes on to say a Green Card may be required in certain other countries 
(including the particular country concerned). While the site says to contact your insurer to get 
a Green Card (and that theyll either post a Green Card or tell you how to download a Green 
Card) this doesnt mean Darwin is obliged to issue a Green Card for a country that the policy 
specifically states isnt covered. 
It would be unreasonable to do so, and I dont think this is the intention of the guidance on 
the government website. The purpose of a Green Card is to confirm a vehicle is insured to 
be driven in a country. It would be illogical to issue a Green Card in respect of a country 
which is specifically not covered under a policy - the case with Mr Hs policy with Darwin. 
And because a Green Card isnt required for driving in the EU and certain other countries 
(which are ones Mr Hs policy does provide cover) then there was no need for Darwin to 
issue a Green Card.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded Darwin have acted fairly and reasonably, so I 
wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman