DRN-3722316
The complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of a limited company, who Ill refer to as T, about how CETA 
Insurance Limited (CETA) handled the administration of its business insurance policy.
What happened
T has a business insurance policy arranged through CETA. In August 2020 the business 
suffered a burglary. Mr S complained about the insurers handling of the claim. The claim 
was ongoing in July 2022 and has been subject to a separate complaint with this service. I 
mention the claim here because I think its pertinent to Ts complaint about how CETA 
handed its insurance policy.
But its important that I say this complaint only deals with matters about how CETA 
administered Ts policy, and specifically about how CETA dealt with the renewal of it.
CETA organise Ts policy through another company Ill refer to as G. G is also a broker and 
it, in turn, brokes Ts policy to an insurer. Gs system collects the premiums.
Ts policy had been placed with CETA, via G, to an insurer for the past few years. It renewed 
apparently as normal in June 2020.
In August 2020 Mr S notified CETA of a burglary and claimed under the business policy. It 
emerged that no premium had been collected for the insurance year 2020-21, so T made full 
payment of the premium in October 2020 and the claim was handled.
CETA have said that the reason the premium hadnt been collected correctly in 2020 was 
the fault of G, whose system had issued an incorrect renewal offering the wrong payment 
details.
In June 2021 Ts policy renewal became due for renewal. G was supposed to send out the 
renewal invitation but failed to do so as it was having some systems issues at the time.
Cover was extended for an extra two weeks free of charge because of these issues, and this 
was communicated to T.
By the end of the extra two week period, T had obtained cover elsewhere because Mr S was 
unhappy with CETAs service.
Because Mr S was unhappy with this late invitation to renew, and the claim which was 
ongoing, he complained to CETA. CETA said it wasnt able to uphold his complaint. It said 
that renewal and premium collection were the responsibility of G, so CETA couldnt be at 
fault.
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator issued 
a view and said she didnt think CETA had done anything wrong. Mr S didnt agree with the 
view and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
I have said above that matters surrounding the claim have been dealt with under a separate 
complaint. This complaint can only consider the impact of the 2021 policy renewal.
At renewal in 2021 I can see that G failed to handle Ts renewal satisfactorily by not issuing 
a renewal invitation in good time. CETA did make arrangements for Ts policy to be 
extended until G could arrange renewal, and I am satisfied this was a reasonable attempt at 
minimising disruption to T. 
But at this stage, Mr S was extremely dissatisfied with CETAs administration processes and 
would have needed to secure alternative cover for T elsewhere, at short notice. 
CETA didnt uphold Ts complaint saying that it wasnt authorised to collect premiums and 
the responsibility of issuing renewal was Gs. And in its final response to T, CETA also says 
we simply deal with the administration 
It seems to me that tasks like offering renewal and collecting premiums are things I would 
think of as being administration of a policy. 
In Mr Ss evidence to this service he makes this very important point:
As far as I understand, CETA is my broker and [redacted] is the insurer. If either 
party use G, that is their responsibility not mine. If G are to blame for the claims 
handling delays and the renewal, why is no action being taken against them?
I agree with Mr S here. T places its insurance business with its broker, CETA, so I dont think 
its fair and reasonable for CETA to then say it cannot take responsibility for some basic 
administrative actions to do with the policy. 
CETAs arrangements with another party are not the fault of T, and I dont think its fair of 
CETA to deny responsibility for a problem, effectively passing it to another organisation 
which isnt connected to T. 
Mr S has explained to this service his frustration and disappointment with the administration 
of Ts policy, but Im only able consider the inconvenience caused to T as part of this 
complaint. In the circumstances, I consider a payment of £200 to be fair compensation for 
CETAs poor administration of Ts policy.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S accepted my provisional decision but corrected a point Id made about the August 2020 
claim, which was still ongoing at the time he wrote. 
CETA responded saying that its terms of business set out how it was able to trade between 
its customers and insurers. It explained what had taken place in 2020, and it apologised for 
the inconvenience it had caused. It didnt make a direct comment about the administration of 
the 2021 renewal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive noted CETAs points about the way it trades with its insurer partners, but my point in my 
provisional decision stands: 
CETAs arrangements with another party are not the fault of T, and I dont think its 
fair of CETA to deny responsibility for a problem, effectively passing it to another 
organisation which isnt connected to T.
As CETA didnt have anything to add, and Mr S on behalf of T agreed with my provisional 
decision, my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
CETA Insurance Limited to pay T £200 for its inconvenience.
CETA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it T accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman