DRN-2649551
The complaint
Mr H (as executor of the estate of the late Mr H) complains about poor treatment from 
Standard Life Assurance Limited following the death of his father. 
What happened
Mr Hs father sadly passed away in September 2019. Mr H informed Standard Life, and was 
told there hadnt been any overpayment of pension.
But a payment was due, and a few days later Mr H received a letter from Standard Life 
saying it would ask for the payment to be returned from the bank to which it was paid. It also 
said it would contact Mr H again if the payment wasnt returned. 
Mr H considered the tone of Standard Lifes letter was inappropriate in the circumstances. 
He also considered it wouldve been reasonable for Standard Life to allow the payment to be 
made, given the relatively small amount involved.
Standard Life accepted it had given Mr H incorrect information when he first contacted it. It 
also accepted that it was wrong to say Mr H would be contacted again if the payment wasnt 
returned.
Standard Life apologised to Mr H, but it didnt offer to do anything else. Mr H was unhappy 
with Standard Lifes response so he referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator recognised that some of Standard Lifes service could have been better. But 
she said we can only ask a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced 
by their customer. Which meant she couldnt ask Standard Life to pay compensation to Mr H 
as executor of the estate.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I would like to extend my sympathy to Mr H and his family for the loss of his 
father. I appreciate that Standard Lifes actions occurred at a very difficult time, and can 
understand why this will have contributed to the distress Mr H was experiencing. 
I can also see that Mr H has strong views about how he was treated by Standard Life. And 
that he considers some of our rules are equally obstructive. Im aware that Mr Hs complaint 
about some of our administrative procedures is being looked at separately. For the purpose 
of this complaint, I will only consider Standard Lifes actions and their impact on Mr H. 
When Mr H contacted Standard Life on 27 September 2019 he was told there hadnt been 
any overpayment of pension. He shouldve been told that another payment was due within 
the next few days. Standard Life shouldve also told Mr H that as the payment was under 
£50, it wouldnt be reclaimed if it wasnt returned.
Keeping in mind the distressing circumstances Mr H was in, I can understand why he found 
the content of Standard Lifes letter dated 30 September 2019 upsetting. Standard Life also 
seems to accept that its service fell below the level Mr H couldve reasonably expected. It 
apologised to Mr H, but it didnt offer to do anything else.
Our investigator said compensation for trouble and upset could only be awarded for distress 
caused to a businesss customer. So she couldnt ask Standard Life to pay compensation to 
Mr H as executor of his late fathers estate.
In general, we dont make awards for trouble and upset to representatives of consumers or, 
as is the case here, their estate. But we can ask a business to make a payment if we 
consider it is justified in the circumstances. 
As Ive already said, I dont doubt the upset caused to Mr H when he received Standard 
Lifes letter. But Im mindful that the amount of money in question was relatively small and, 
as far as I can tell, the payment was correctly reclaimed in line with the policy terms and 
relevant legislation. 
So after very careful consideration of everything that Mr H has told me, along with the fact 
that Standard Life has apologised to Mr H, Im not persuaded that the circumstances are 
such that a compensation award is justified on this occasion.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr H, but I hope he will understand why I consider 
Standard Lifes apology is enough to settle this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman