DRN-4240912
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the amount UK Insurance Limited (UKI) paid in settlement of a 
claim he made under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat him again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr H is unhappy with the valuation placed on his 
car following a total loss claim under his policy  £11,690.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs claim should be upheld. She said UKI had based its 
valuation on some of the recognised motor industry trade guides our service typically relies 
on. She checked the four guides our service checks and said UKIs valuation was within the 
range of valuations returned by those four guides. So, she said UKIs claim settlement was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators assessment. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs policy covers him for the market value of his car, at the time of loss  which is 
fairly standard within the motor insurance industry.
Market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model, and of a 
similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
Mr H complains that the valuation placed on his car by UKI is too low. He says hes 
unable to replace his car with one of a similar make and model for that amount. 
UKI based its valuation on the average valuation returned by two of the recognised 
motor trade guides. It used the correct mileage and date of loss when using the guides, 
and the valuations returned were:
CAP: £11,550
Glasss £11,830
Ive obtained my own valuations from two additional motor trade guides our service typically 
uses when assessing complaints about motor valuations, to give a total of four guides. The 
additional valuations I obtained were:
Percayso (formerly Cazoo): £12,612
Autotrader: £11,666
Our services normal approach in these types of complaints, considers that a valuation within 
the range of valuations returned by the trade guides is typically fair. This means somewhere 
between the highest and lowest figure. The average of the four valuations above is 
£11,914.50 and UKIs valuation was £11,690. So, the amount offered by UKI is within the 
range of valuations returned by the guides, and close to the average of the four.
 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs complaint that he wasnt able to replace his car in the 
market for the amount paid by UKI  based on sales adverts for similar cars hes provided to 
us. But our service finds the motor trade guides to be more persuasive than sales adverts, 
largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures all 
of which are updated regularly. The guides also take into account regional variations. Were 
confident these guides give a good reflection of the true market value of a car.
We also find the motor trade guides to be more persuasive than sales adverts because 
advertised prices are often the starting point of a negotiation, and are what the seller would 
like to achieve, rather than the final price the car actually sells for. 
And, in this particular case, Im mindful that the majority of the adverts Mr H has provided are 
for cars with different registration years (2017 instead of 2016) or registration releases (66 
plate instead of 16 plate). And some have substantially lower mileage and/or slightly different 
specifications (sport vs standard) than Mr Hs car. All of these variables are likely to have 
some impact on the advertised price for each car. 
The closest examples to Mr Hs car, based on mileage and registration years, were 
advertised at £12,450 and £12,999  one with 7,000 less miles and the other around 16,000 
less. And as already mentioned, advertised prices are often the starting point of a 
negotiation. It doesnt seem unlikely that cars advertised at the above amounts and/or with 
more similar mileage to Mr Hs car, could be negotiated to sell for closer to £11,690. So, 
taking all of the above into account, the adverts provided by Mr H havent persuaded me that 
it would be unfair or unreasonable to rely on the valuations returned by the motor trade 
guides. 
To summarise, UKIs valuation is in line with the valuations returned by the guides our 
service typically relies on. I find the guides more likely to represent the true market value of 
Mr Hs car than the adverts hes provided. So, taking all the evidence into account, I think 
UKIs valuation was fair and reasonable, and it follows that Ill not be directing it to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman