DRN-2006041
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc refused to assist him in dealing with a faulty car.
What happened
In August 20919 Mr A bought a second had car costing £6,250 with £3,250 on his credit card 
and the balance was paid by his father using his credit card. The car was six years old and 
had covered 128,310 miles.
Mr A says that the car some issues when he took delivery. The left-hand wing mirror didnt 
retract, there was no parcel shelf, the driver side floor mat was worn out, the wheel caps 
were missing and it needed to be cleaned inside and out. There were several other minor 
matters.
He complained to the dealer it took the car in and fixed the mirror and carried out a MOT. Mr 
A paid for replacement parcel shelf and floor mats.
In October 2019 the "engine maintenance required' and low oil pressure level warning 
lights came on and Mr A spoke to his local garage which advised him not to drive the car. 
The car was inspected and it was suggested the faults would require a major repair. The car 
was collected by the dealer and it says it fitted a rebuilt engine at a cost of some £3,000. 
This took several weeks due to delays in getting hold of some parts. Mr A says he had to 
pay £11 a day to get to and from work.
Mr A says that a little later he heard squeaking noises coming from the front wheels, but he 
deferred taking any action for some seven weeks when a warning light came on for low tyre 
pressure. One tyre had a puncture and Mr A replaced all four tyres. A few weeks later the 
engine inspection warning light came on and the dealer asked him to bring it in, but Mr A 
declined as he couldnt afford to be without the car.
Mr A contacted HSBC and says it was unhelpful ad simply told him he had to allow the 
dealer to repair the engine. HSBC says it suggested he contacted its chargeback team, but 
he didnt do so. Mr A says he didnt receive the letter with this advice and he closed his 
accounts with HSBC. HSBC didnt explore a claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted HSBC had considered a 
chargeback, but not a section 75 claim. It was able to offer no reason why this had 
happened. 
However, our investigator didnt think a chargeback or section 75 had any merit and would 
not have proved to be successful. She noted Mr A had done some 3,000 miles since the 
engine was repaired which suggested the repair had been successful. She didnt believe 
there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
She also considered Mr As request for compensation due to being without his car for 
several weeks. She said she thought the car had been taken in for repairs quickly and the 
work were carried out as efficiently as possible. She appreciated the inconvenience, but 
thought it was necessary for the dealer to have had the car to be repaired. 
Mr A didnt agree that he should have had to wait for the length of time it took to fix the car. 
He said he didnt know what work had been done or what warranty cover he had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part. For section 75 to 
apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Mr As car was relatively old and had a high mileage and it is reasonable to expect it to have 
suffered from wear and tear. The initial issues Mr A encountered were minor and the wing 
mirror was fixed by the garage. It is reasonable to expect Mr A to have inspected the car 
before buying it and he would have had the opportunity to see the parcel shelf was missing 
as were the mats. I cannot say that there was anything wrong about how these matters were 
handled.
A couple of months later the car suffered a major problem and as this happened within six 
months of purchase consumer law entitles the dealer to attempt a repair. This it did by 
replacing the engine at no cost to Mr A. Shortly afterwards Mr A had puncture and he 
replaced all the tyres. Such things are a matter of wear and tear and not something I would 
regard as an inherent fault. I cannot say if the car has had a subsequent fault after the 
engine was replaced as the car has not been inspected.
I appreciate Mr A has incurred costs in travelling to and from work, though he has not had to pay for petrol during this period. I cannot say that HSBC can be held responsible for that. 
That would be a matter for Mr A to pursue with the dealer.
Turning to HSBCs handling of the claim I can see that it could have considered a section 75 
claim, but in any event, I can see no basis for such a claim being successful. I dont believe 
there was a breach of contract in that the fault was repaired and the repair appears to have 
been successful. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman