DRN-3575905
The complaint
Mr A complains in his capacity as director of A (a limited company) that HDI Global SE 
(HDI) unfairly declined a claim and avoided As commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
Following a fire at the insured premises in April 2020, a claim was made under As 
commercial property insurance policy. Loss adjusters were sent out to inspect the damage 
and it was concluded that there appeared to have been an electrical fault. A number of 
issues arose during the assessment of the claim, including that wiring was found to be in 
poor condition, and there was a lack of evidence that periodic testing of the kitchen area had 
been undertaken.
The claim was declined on the basis that conditions of the policy had been breached. And 
the policy was avoided on the grounds that A had breached its duty of fair presentation of 
risk. Mr A didnt agree with HDIs decision, so he made a complaint. 
Solicitors acting for HDI communicated its final response on the complaint, saying that the 
decision to decline the claim had been reviewed, but theyd found no reason to change their 
initial conclusions and the policy would be avoided.
Unhappy with HDIs position, Mr A referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the issues but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said HDI had 
acted fairly and was entitled to decline the claim and avoid the policy in the circumstances.
Because Mr A didnt agree with our investigators conclusions, the complaint has now come 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The Insurance Act 2015 requires a policyholder to make a fair presentation of the 
risks of cover to the insurer  and this includes disclosing every material 
circumstance they know or ought to know, which would influence whether or not an 
insurer would provide cover. 
A question on the Statement of Fact asked whether A had Had the Electrical 
Installation tested by a certified NICEIC, ELECSA, or ECA Contractor within the last 
5 years and all reported defects remedied? Mr A answered Yes to this question 
and it is on that basis that HDI believes he did not make a fair presentation of risk.
Having considered all the information that was available to both HDI and A at the 
time the cover was taken out, Im not persuaded that A made a fair presentation of 
the risk. The evidence Ive been most persuaded by includes a forensic report dated 
30 April 2020, which concludes that the Electrical Inspection Condition Report dated 
1 January 2019 contains several shortcomings and discrepancies. For example, the 
report makes clear that although the electrical inspection report may be genuine, it 
does not cover the kitchen. This conclusion is reached due to the inconsistencies 
between the deficiencies mentioned in the electrical inspection and the apparent poor 
condition of the installation that was noted at the time of the subsequent inspection.
Im also persuaded by a further special investigation report dated 30 July 2020, which 
also concludes that there was a failure to properly comply with electrical inspection 
requirements in the policy.
The underwriter has confirmed that had accurate information been given from the 
outset about the state of the electrics then the same cover wouldnt have been 
provided, so I consider the failure to constitute a qualifying breach under the 
Insurance Act 2015.
I have carefully considered the comments made by Mr A in relation to the allegation 
that the electrician was specifically told to exclude the kitchen from his inspection. 
Mr A is of the view that the electrician would want to distance himself from any public 
liability for causing an electrical fire at premises he recently inspected. However, Im 
not persuaded by this argument, as the statement dated 6 May 2020 gives a detailed 
account of a conversation with the electrician. It says that the kitchen was not 
inspected or tested and that the wiring was said to be in poor condition. Due to the 
other supporting evidence, such as photographs and similar reports, I find the 
contents of the statement to be plausible and credible. 
Ive considered what Mr A has said about there being no signed statement from the 
electrician, but Im also persuaded by the photographs of the kitchen wiring which 
evidence that it was not in good condition. The photographs show exposed and 
mechanically strained wires, unterminated and unprotected live cables as well as 
defective wiring and equipment. Its clear that these were not inspected, so the 
relevant question on the Statement of Fact regarding the electrics had not been 
answered accurately. I also consider this to have been a deliberate or reckless 
breach, because Mr A wouldve been aware of the condition of the electrics. So HDI 
was entitled to refuse the claim and avoid the policy without return of any premiums.
Further, whilst Ive considered the electrical inspection certificates Mr A has sent to 
us, these dont persuade me that a proper inspection was undertaken of the kitchen 
area, because they do not note the numerous defects and safety issues regarding 
the electrics. And Ive seen no evidence to confirm that the electrician was suitably 
qualified, as required under the policy terms, to carry out the electrical inspection.
For the above reasons, Im satisfied HDI hasnt treated A unfairly here and so I wont be 
requiring HDI to do anything differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2022.
 
Ifrah MalikOmbudsman