DRN-3595256
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank PLC responded after she queried why two transfers 
she had made from her current account to her savings account didnt appear in the account 
immediately.
What happened
Over the weekend of 30 and 31 October 2021 Mrs T transferred money from her current 
account to her savings. The credits did not show until the 1 November 2021 and Mrs T 
wanted to understand why. When she called the bank Mrs T did not feel Lloyds was helpful. 
It subsequently explained the money credited her savings account immediately but the 
transaction listing only updates on working days.  
Mrs T says the banks final response letter was insulting and dismissed her long-standing 
custom by suggesting she may prefer to bank elsewhere. The wrong letterhead was also 
used. Lloyds apologised for the incorrect letterhead and gave feedback to the relevant team. 
But it said Mrs Ts complaints history shows she is clearly unhappy with the service it 
provides and so she may prefer to move her accounts. It had made no error with her 
transfers.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ts complaint. He said Mrs Ts statement listed the 
payments on 1 November 2021 but also showed in the narrative that she had made the 
transfers on the 30 and 31 October. The balances of both accounts had updated 
immediately. So he found no bank error. He felt Lloyds apology for the wrong letterhead was 
an appropriate response. And he explained that Lloyds had not intended to cause any 
offence by suggesting Mrs T may prefer to bank elsewhere. It had said this as Mrs T made 
multiple complaints, where it had found no bank errors or service failures, so it may just be it 
could not meet her expectations.
Unhappy with this assessment Mrs T replied saying when she looked into this issue herself 
she found the discrepancy in transaction reporting was only on the app and not on online 
banking. She feels if Lloyds had asked how she was checking her account this could have 
been clarified earlier and her time would not have been wasted. Lloyds confirmed to the 
investigator this is indeed something that happens on the app over a weekend at month end. 
But this can be resolved by selecting the view all option by swiping right.
Mrs T asked for an ombudsmans review saying she wanted an apology for how her 
complaint was handled and for the lack of information the bank gave when she asked for 
help. She said she is not looking for compensation and never asked for it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why but first I want to 
address a comment she made and reassure her that we are impartial. We are an 
independent organisation and we do not act on behalf of banks or consumers: it is not in our 
interest to find in favour of one party over the other.
I do not find the bank made an error with Mrs Ts transfers on 30 and 31 October. It has 
explained why the statement listings were dated 1 November 2021. It has confirmed her 
balances were updated in real time. I can see Mrs T subsequently explained the problem 
was only on the mobile app, and she is frustrated the bank has confirmed this is the case. 
Mrs T says what Lloyds describes is not how the app behaved that weekend for her. But as 
that cant be recreated I dont think there is a way to further investigate this, nor indeed a 
need to in order to reach a fair outcome. To decide this I have taken into account the 
comments Mrs T made when she initially called this service - that the issue was only a slight 
inconvenience, and that her dissatisfaction stems much more from how Lloyds treated her 
when she complained. 
Mrs T is unhappy the more recent information that has been shared about the app was not 
given to her when she called, nor was she asked what device she was using to check her 
accounts. I agree this would have been helpful, but equally I cant see from the contact notes 
that Mrs T was given any incorrect information on 1 November 2021.  
With regards the incorrect letterhead, I agree with the investigator that the apology already 
made by the bank is an appropriate response.
Moving on to the final response letter, I understand that Lloydss suggestion offended       
Mrs T, and I am sorry she was so upset by it. But I am satisfied that this was not its intention. 
Its aim was to explain that given the frequency of Mrs Ts complaints and level of 
dissatisfaction with the bank it maybe she would be better suited to an alternative provider. 
Mrs T disputed that this is part of a policy the bank has. But from what we see most banks 
have a policy they follow to ensure they treat customers who raise multiple complaints 
consistently and reasonably, and this can include making suggestions in the way Lloyds did 
here. 
I know Mrs T is very unhappy with how Lloyds has managed her complaint overall and she 
asks for an apology letter. But I do not have the power to review its handing of her complaint 
as that is not a regulated activity. I anticipate this will be frustrating and disappointing for  
Mrs T but the rules we must follow define our scope and remit. And this means we can only 
investigate the aspects of her complaints that relate to a regulated activity. It follows I could 
not instruct Lloyds to apologise for its complaint handling, even if I felt this was merited.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman