DRN-2309818
The complaint
Mrs W complains about a default marker recorded on her credit file by Cabot Credit
Management Group Limited (trading as Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited), and related 
issues.
What happened
Mrs W used to have a store card with NewDay. In early 2019 she learned that this account 
had been sold to Cabot in December 2018, and that Cabot had recorded a default on her 
credit file. She says this drastically reduced her credit score and adversely affected her 
mortgage application, causing great stress to her and her husband. She brought complaints 
to this Service about both firms  Cabot and NewDay  as she claimed that neither of them 
had served her with a default notice or a notice of sums in arrears. She also said she had 
not been given a breakdown of the outstanding balance (which she has since paid off).
Those two complaints have been dealt with separately, and I am dealing here only with the 
complaint about Cabot.
Cabot said that Mrs Ws debt was one of approximately 50,000 defaulted debts which it had 
bought from NewDay. At the time, its staff had attended NewDays office and conducted 
random checks of some of the debts (since it would not have been practical to check all of 
them), and had verified that default notices had been served in each of those cases. It said 
this was enough to comply with its industry trade association and the relevant regulations.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He accepted that Cabot had bought the debt in good 
faith, and that it had carried out the due diligence checks it had described. But he thought 
that was not enough, because Cabot had not specifically checked Mrs Ws account, and had 
only inferred that a default notice had been served, because notices had been served in the 
accounts it had randomly checked. He recommended that Cabot remove the default marker 
from Mrs Ws credit file and pay her £120 for her trouble. Cabot did not accept that opinion, 
and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
That was in January 2020. Since then, in June 2020, another ombudsman, Ms Sara Falzon, 
issued a final decision in the NewDay complaint. She did not uphold that complaint, and 
found that NewDay had been entitled to default Mrs Ws account and that the default did not 
have to be removed.
In October I issued a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have provisionally formed the view that Cabot has done nothing wrong.
Although I am only dealing with the complaint against Cabot, I have still considered the 
evidence provided in both cases. I have seen a default notice served by NewDay, dated 
2 June 2015, addressed to Mrs W. I am satisfied that she received it, not least because she 
sent it to us when she brought her complaint against NewDay. But in case NewDay re-sent it 
to her in 2019, I have checked that the address is correct, and it is. I have also seen late 
payment letters which were sent to her before the account was defaulted.
But more importantly than that, I have read my ombudsman colleagues final decision in the 
NewDay complaint. In that decision, she said that she was satisfied that NewDay had done 
enough to tell Mrs W that the account was in arrears and was going to be defaulted. She 
concluded that NewDay had been entitled to default the account, and to sell the account to a 
third party. She didnt think any remedial action needed to be taken, and that the default 
balance had been correct, based on statements which had been sent to Mrs W at the time. 
So she did not uphold that complaint. Insofar as what NewDay did is relevant to the 
complaint against Cabot, I adopt Ms Falzons findings, having seen the same evidence that 
she saw.
I think that that is enough to dispose of this complaint. Since Cabot was entitled (and, 
indeed, obliged) to record the default on Mrs Ws credit file, I cannot reasonably tell it to 
remove the default, or to compensate Mrs W for having recorded the default, or hold Cabot 
responsible for any adverse effects the default marker had on her credit file or any 
subsequent applications for credit. That is sufficient reason for me to decide not to uphold 
this complaint.
But for completeness, I will still address the topic of whether Cabots due diligence checks 
were enough.
I accept Cabots argument that it would simply not be practical for it to conduct 50,000 
individual checks on 50,000 different accounts. I do not believe that would be a sensible 
thing to expect it to do. Instead, random checks seem to me to be a proportionate way for 
Cabot to fulfil its obligations to its new customers.
So my provisional decision is that I currently do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W wrote nine pages of submissions in reply to my provisional decision. In very brief 
summary, she pointed out that the June 2015 default notice had been satisfied, and NewDay 
had relied on a second default notice, issued in September 2015, when it had defaulted her 
account. She said the default had not been valid because (as NewDay itself accepted a few 
months later) the default notice had not complied with the relevant regulations. The default 
had not been reported to the credit reference agencies until the debt was sold to Cabot and 
Cabot began to report it. Mrs W questioned whether the account had ever really been 
properly defaulted at all. She referred to section 86D of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, 
which sets out sanctions for a lenders non-compliance with its legal obligations under 
section 86C.
Mrs W also argued she was worse off as a result of the sale to Cabot, because now that 
Cabot was reporting the default this had adversely affected her credit score. She said that 
the sale of the debt had not been lawful because the debt had not been defaulted, and that 
Cabots due diligence checks had failed because they should have picked up on the fact that 
NewDay had failed to report the default.
Mrs W also said she had recently come across evidence of a payment of £100 which she 
had made to NewDay in early September 2015, which she had forgotten about until now. She said that this payment had cleared the arrears, and so this was another reason why 
NewDay had been wrong to default the account.
Cabot did not reply.
My findings
I apologise to Mrs W for referring to the June default notice; she is quite right that it was the 
September notice which NewDay relied on originally. (I havent been provided with a copy of 
the September notice, but I have seen evidence that it was sent, in the form of screenshots 
from NewDays systems.) I note that my ombudsman colleague Ms Falzon correctly referred 
to the September notice in her final decision in that case, so the error was mine. So I have 
looked at all of the evidence in the NewDay case again, as well as the various documents 
which accompanied Mrs Ws response.
Although Mrs W had forgotten about the £100 payment she made to NewDay in September 
2015, evidence of this payment was sent to our Service by NewDay in December 2019, in 
the form of the covering letter which Mrs W sent with her cheque. I can see that NewDay 
recorded this payment on its systems, so it was taken into account at the time (and Ms 
Falzon referred to it in the second paragraph of her final decision).
Unfortunately the £100 payment did not clear all of the arrears on the account. Mrs W knew 
that at the time, because she mentioned in her letter that there was still a remaining balance 
which she expected would be paid automatically by her direct debit towards the end of the 
month. But the direct debit payment was not made after all: I have seen the statement for 
September, and the £100 was the only payment which was made in that month. So the 
account remained in arrears.
NewDay sent the second default notice, and continued to send letters to Mrs W. In late 
September, NewDay asked her to provide some medical evidence which she had mentioned 
in her letter. And I have seen a screenshot from NewDays contact notes showing that 
another such request was sent to her on 17 December. There is no record of Mrs W 
responding to these letters, or making any more payments.
The account was defaulted at the end of January 2016. That was not because, as Mrs W 
suspects, her £100 payment had not been credited to her account, but because there were 
still arrears outstanding after that payment was made. The default balance was £423, which 
is the same amount as the balance at the end of the statement for September 2015, after the 
£100 was credited. It would otherwise have been £523. I therefore agree with Mrs W that 
interest and fees on the account were on hold during this period, but that doesnt mean that 
she didnt have to make any more payments to reduce the outstanding balance, or that 
NewDay couldnt serve a default notice.
Some time later, in June 2016, NewDay realised that it had not complied with the rules about 
default notices, in that it should have sent a third default notice before defaulting the account 
but had failed to do so. It follows that NewDay was not entitled to default the account in 
January 2016. By doing so, it contravened the Consumer Credit Act, and the effect of 
section 86D is that NewDay was prohibited from defaulting the account. Therefore I agree 
with Mrs Ws argument that the account was not defaulted correctly at the time.
However, in June 2016 NewDay defaulted the account properly, by serving a third default 
notice, and then defaulting the account again. It backdated that default to January, since that 
was when it had meant to default the account in the first place. That means that the default 
marker will still come off Mrs Ws credit file in January 2022, instead of in June of that year.When Mrs W received the new default notice in June 2016, she did not bring the account up 
to date. So I infer that her reaction would have been the same if she had received a proper 
notice in December 2015 or in January 2016. Therefore I think that the impact of NewDays 
error in January was negligible or nil.
Ms Falzon wrote about all of this in her final decision, in which she said this:
While I would usually expect NewDay to send a default notice, I have to consider 
whether I think it would have made a difference if it had. Mrs W was aware there 
was still a debt on the account when she contacted NewDay in September 2015. 
And she received a statement in January 2016 showing her account balance. While 
Mrs W says she made a further payment, I think she should have been aware that 
there was an outstanding balance remaining on the account. 
And when a further default notice was sent in June 2016 to replace the one that 
hadnt been sent, Mrs W didnt make the payment to bring the account up to date. 
So I havent seen any evidence that convinces me that Mrs Ws account wouldnt 
have defaulted if she had been sent the default notice on January 2016.
I agree with all of that, and I would add that Mrs W would also have received monthly 
statements in October, November and December 2015. Since she did not clear the arrears 
in the period between September 2015 and January 2016, or on receipt of the June 2016 
default notice, I think it is unlikely that she would have done so if she had received a third 
default notice in December or January.
For all of these reasons, I will not require Cabot to remove the default marker.
It follows that the account was not improperly or unlawfully sold to Cabot. The account had 
been properly defaulted by then; it was not included with the other defaulted accounts by 
mistake.
NewDay made another mistake in 2016: it failed to report the default to the credit reference 
agencies. But Mrs W benefited from that mistake, because it meant that her credit score was 
higher than it should have been. Now that Cabot is reporting the default, she argues that she 
is worse off as a result of the account being sold to Cabot. I can see what she means, but 
that doesnt mean that Cabot is doing anything wrong  it is supposed to report the default, 
whether or not NewDay did. And Mrs W is not in a worse position than she would have been 
in if NewDay had been reporting the default all along.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman