DRN-4013695
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined her claim on her home insurance 
following water ingress into her kitchen. 
Throughout the claim and complaint, Mrs H has been represented by a third party. However 
for ease of reading, all references to Mrs H include the actions of her representative.  
What happened
Mrs H had home insurance that was underwritten by Aviva. In September 2019 she 
discovered water coming through the glass ceiling of her kitchen. She called a contractor to 
fix the problem. And in December 2019 she made a claim on her insurance.  
Aviva carried out investigations into the claim and eventually declined it. Aviva said that Mrs 
H had a duty to notify it of a claim as soon as she could after the need to claim arises. And, 
as she had waited over two months to do so here, it was unable to determine the cause of 
the damage or work out whether the damage had worsened over time. So it said she had 
prejudiced her position and the claim wouldnt be covered. 
Mrs H complained but Aviva didnt uphold her complaint. So she brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he thought Mrs H had 
breached a condition of the policy by not reporting the claim when the water ingress first 
happened. And because she hadnt, Aviva were unable to properly validate it. 
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators outcome. She said the delay in reporting the claim was 
due to illness in the family and because the extent of the damage hadnt been initially 
evident. Further she said that it hadnt prejudiced the claim as the contractors she had to 
attend had identified the problem as being from the guttering overflowing. She asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs policy contains the following term:
As soon as you are aware of an event or cause which is likely to lead to a claim under this 
policy, you must
b. contact us as soon as reasonably possible and, in the case of claims involving damage by 
riot or civil unrest, not more than 7 days after Home Plus Policy 41 becoming aware of the 
damage, and provide all relevant information we need to settle your claim
The account from the contractor Mrs H called out the day after she discovered the issue 
described water pouring into the kitchen and extensive damage to the room. I therefore think 
that this should have been enough for Mrs H to have known this was a cause which is likely 
to lead to a claim. And therefore she had a responsibility under the policy to report it as soon 
as reasonably possible. As it was over two months after this that the claim was reported, I 
agree she is in breach of the policy terms. 
Ive considered what Mrs H has said about not claiming until she understood the extent of 
the damage which wasnt until weeks later when further investigative work was carried out. 
However from her own description of the event itself and that of the contractor that attended, 
I think the severity of the issue would have been apparent when it first took place.
While I agree Mrs H has breached the condition, in order to say Aviva had acted fairly by 
declining the claim Id need to be persuaded that the breach had had a material impact on 
the claim. 
Ive looked at the report from Avivas loss adjuster dated June 2021. And considered the 
account from the contractor who attended to fix the issue at the time. From these, while I can 
see a number of possible causes are discussed, neither has been able to conclude on a 
definite root cause. The contractor attributes the damage to overflowing guttering but also 
comments that a crack between the kitchen roof and the bathroom window could have been 
a factor. He also mentions debris in the guttering from a building project taking place at the 
neighbouring property. The loss adjuster report also makes various suggestion as to the 
probable cause of the damage, but is unable to firmly conclude what was the root cause.
Further the report states:
With the incident allegedly taking place in September 2019, the claim only being notified 
some months later and then repair works only being performed approximately six months 
after the proposed date of loss, it is likely the damage worsened during this period of time in 
the absence of strip out works and mechanical drying
Based on this evidence, I am persuaded that the fact Mrs H failed to report the incident 
promptly when it happened has had a material impact on Avivas ability to assess the claim. 
It has been unable to determine the root cause of the issue  which means it has been 
unable to determine if policy cover would apply. And its loss adjuster has said that it is likely 
the damage worsened because of this. 
When assessing any claim an insurer needs to first validate it. This means they need to be 
able to assess the damage to determine whether the root cause is covered by the policy and 
if any exclusions of the policy apply. This is a reasonable step for insurers to take when 
considering a claim, as not all events that cause damage to a property are covered by an 
insurance policy. And here, of the various causes suggested, some may have been covered 
and others may not have been.
As Aviva hasnt been able to determine the root cause here, its not been able to effectively 
validate the claim. Im therefore persuaded that the fact Mrs H didnt report the claim 
promptly has had a material impact on Avivas ability to assess and validate the claim. So I 
dont think its acted unfairly by declining it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman