DRN-4098154
The complaint
Mr S complains that he didnt receive policy documents from Vitality Health Limited for the 
policy period ending 28 February 2023.
What happened
On 1 March 2019 Mr S took out private medical insurance through a broker, the insurer was 
Vitality. The policy was underwritten on a continued personal medical exclusions basis. Mr S 
renewed his policy each year.
Mr S complaint is that he hasnt received the policy documents for the policy period 1 March 
2022 to 28 February 2023. He doesnt use a computer and needs the documents posted. He 
said:
As he didnt receive the policy terms and conditions he didnt have the opportunity to 
look at the policy to see what the policy covered. 
Vitality said that hed signed for the policy documents it resent him in 
November 2022. Mr S said he hadnt signed for any recorded delivery items from 
Vitality. 
The policy has been mis-sold and he wants the premiums for that policy year 
refunded and compensation for his distress and inconvenience in dealing with Vitality 
about the matter.
Vitality said:
It received Mr S complaint on 10 August 2022 and responded in September 2022. It 
didnt have a record of Mr S raising the issue before, if so it would have resent him 
the policy documents immediately.
Mr S dispatch preference on its system is set to post and the policy and renewal 
documents had been posted to Mr S each year since the policy was taken out. It had 
a technical issue in 2022 about printing the documents but it sent Mr S a letter of 
apology and the documents. Once its posted the documents its Royal Mails 
responsibility to deliver the documents. 
Mr S broker received the policy renewal invite each year and the broker called 
Vitality, on Mr S behalf, in March 2022 to discuss and renew the policy from 
March 2022.
When Mr S told it he still didnt have the policy documents it sent them by recorded 
delivery on 2 November 2022. Information on the Royal Mail website showed he 
signed for the documents on 3 November 2022.
It didnt offer Mr S compensation as it had apologised for the documents initially not 
being send and resent them when it knew they hadnt been received by Mr S. 
Our investigator said Vitality had treated Mr S fairly.
Mr S disagreed and wanted an ombudmans decision. In summary he added:
He didnt sign for the delivery of the policy documents on 3 November 2022. He just 
received  a copy of the policy renewal document on that date, which he didnt sign 
for. He wanted the policy terms and conditions, like he had for the policy starting in 
March 2021.
His broker didnt have the policy documents. He send a letter from the broker which 
said Vitality only sent it documents on request and the normal process was the 
broker was notified of premiums and the policy documents were sent to the brokers 
clients direct.
He was in correspondence with Royal Mail about the alleged signed for delivery on 
3 November and he asked our investigator for the tracking number for the document 
sent by Vitality, which she provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has mentioned that he didnt receive the policy documents for the policy taken out in 
March 2019 or 2020. Hes already complained about that matter as part of an earlier 
complaint he made to this service and he received a final decision from my ombudsman 
colleague so Im not able to relook at that matter.
Anyway, Mr S has been clear that this complaint is about him not receiving his policy terms 
and conditions for the policy period 1 March 2022 to 28 February 2023. My decision is about 
that matter
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from Vitalitys evidence that it sent Mr S policy documents around the time of his 
policy renewal in 2022. It was reasonable for Vitality to send the documents by post as thats 
how Mr S wanted the documents sent to him. Vitality isnt responsible for letters/documents 
it sends in the post to Mr S being delivered, thats Royal Mails responsibility
Ive seen no evidence that Mr S contacted Vitality around the 2022 renewal to say he hadnt 
received the policy documents and the broker contacted Vitality in March 2022 on Mr S 
behalf to renew the policy. So Im satisfied Vitality could reasonably believe that Mr S and 
the broker had enough information about the cover the policy provided to decide that the 
policy was suitable for Mr S to renew the policy. And if Mr S and the broker didnt have 
enough information about what the policy covered I think Vitality could reasonably 
understand that Mr S and/or the broker would have contacted Vitality for further documents 
before he agreed to renewed the policy.
Mr S wrote to Vitality on 22 July 2022 saying he hadnt got the policy terms and conditions 
for the policy ending in February 2023. I understand thats the letter Vitality responded to in 
September 2022. Ultimately Vitality made the reasonable decision to send the policy 
documents Mr S by recorded delivery on 2 November 2022. 
Vitality has sent us the information from Royal Mails website which says that the posted 
item was delivered on 3 November 2022. The website also showed writing in the proof of 
delivery box and underneath it said Signed for by: (Mr S surname). Im satisfied that 
Vitality reasonably understood from that information that the documents it sent had been 
delivered and signed for by someone who had the same surname as Mr S.
Even if I accepted Mr S point that Vitality didnt send the full terms and conditions to him in 
November 2022 Ive seen no evidence that Mr S was financially disadvantaged by that. As 
Ive said above, it was reasonable for Vitality to understand that he had the full information 
he needed about the policy cover at the time he renewed the policy in March 2022.Ive seen no clear evidence as to whether Vitality or the broker was responsible for the sale 
of the policy. If Vitality was responsible Ive seen no evidence that it mis-sold the policy to 
Mr S and theres no basis for me to fairly say that Vitality should refund the premiums of the 
policy. Im also satisfied theres no basis for me to reasonably say Vitality should pay Mr S 
any compensation. Vitality resent the policy documents when he told it they hadnt been 
received by post and I dont think it needed to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman