DRN-2905381
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds handling of their mobile 
phone insurance claim. Theyre unhappy they werent provided with the correct contact 
details to make the claim. And that they were not reimbursed the cost of replacing the mobile 
phone.  
Mr and Mrs A want Assurant to recognise the correct claim information wasnt available, and 
to apologise. They also want to be refunded £49.99 of the £149.99 they paid for a 
replacement mobile phone (not including the £100 excess on the policy), together with 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to them. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of some key events here. 
Mr and Mrs A have mobile phone insurance with Assurant through their bank account. When 
Mrs A damaged her mobile phone, Mr A tried to make a claim. But he says the website he 
was directed to wasnt working and the phone numbers were unobtainable. Thinking they 
could make a retrospective claim, Mr and Mrs A bought a new phone at a cost of £149.99. 
Once Mr and Mrs A were able to get in touch with Assurant, they were told they shouldve 
sent the phone in for repair in line with the policy terms and conditions, and so they werent 
covered for the cost of replacing the phone. 
Mr and Mrs A complained. They said theyd had to buy a new phone because they were 
unable to make a claim as the website wasnt working and contact details were incorrect. 
They wanted to be reimbursed for the cost of the new phone, less the policy excess. 
Assurant didnt uphold the complaint. It said its website and contact details were up to date, 
and Mr and Mrs A needed to have sent the phone in for repair, in line with the terms and 
conditions of their policy. So, Assurant wasnt prepared to reimburse the cost of the new 
phone. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree and referred their complaint to our service. They disputed that 
Assurants website was up to date at the point they accessed it. And maintained Assurant 
should reimburse them £49.99 for the new phone. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. He didnt think Assurant was liable for the cost of 
the new mobile phone. He said the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs As policy made it 
clear the phone needed to be sent in for repair  and only replaced if a repair wasnt 
possible.
In terms of the contact details, our investigator was initially persuaded by the evidence 
provided by Mr and Mrs A that a mistake had been made which meant Mr A couldnt make 
the claim when Mrs As phone was first damaged. But on considering further information 
from Assurant, our investigator concluded that correct contact information was available to 
Mr A, which he couldve accessed to make a claim. And so, our investigator found Mr A 
wouldve be able to contact Assurant if hed looked into matters further.  
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree. Mr A said he had tried to access the mobile phone insurance 
through his bank using the links provided and was presented with inaccurate contact 
information. He said he had no other documentation with details of how to claim, as the 
whole process is managed on line. 
As theres been no agreement, the case has been passed to me to consider for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr and Mrs A feel strongly about this complaint and this will come as 
a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
I should first explain that the complaint Im considering here is against Assurant. Mr and 
Mrs As mobile phone insurance is a benefit of their bank account  but for the purposes of 
this complaint, Assurant is responsible for the administration of that insurance  including the 
claims process. 
The claim
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs As mobile phone insurance. The 
relevant term is as follows:
if your mobile phone is damaged or breaks down we will either:
1. repair the mobile phone (were possible)
or
2. replace it with a mobile phone of the same make, model and memory size .
Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A needed to replace the phone quickly, Im satisfied from 
the terms and conditions that Assurant would first need to try and repair the phone before it 
was replaced. And so, I cant say that it treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly when it said it wasnt 
able to reimburse Mr and Mrs A for the cost of buying the new mobile phone. 
Contact details
I dont dispute Mr and Mrs As testimony about what they did when trying to find out 
information about their mobile phone insurance. The screen shot theyve provided us with 
refers to mobile phone insurance, and confirms the website is temporarily unavailable. It also 
provides a list of phone numbers which Mr and Mrs A have told us were unobtainable. This was far from ideal, and undoubtedly caused inconvenience for Mr and Mrs A, who I 
understand needed a working mobile phone urgently. But I can see that Assurant has told us 
its not responsible for the website Mr and Mrs A were directed to. And that all its correct 
contact details  phone number and website address - are up to date and readily available in 
the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs As bank account and on a customers bank card for 
ease of access.  
The screen shot provided by Mr and Mrs A and the terms and conditions which Ive seen 
would suggest to me that Assurants position here is correct. So, whilst I accept that Mr and 
Mrs A were presented with inaccurate and unhelpful information when trying to make their 
claim, I cant say this was because of a mistake by Assurant. In addition, the correct 
information about how to make a claim was readily available.  
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Assurant has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here, and I wont be asking it to take any action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman