DRN-1892282
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Vitality Health Limiteds decision to decline his claim for 
treatment of anxiety under his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2018, Mr H took out a private medical insurance policy with Vitality. The policy 
was sold to him by a third party, which Ill call B. The policy was subject to a moratorium 
under which cover was excluded for at least the first two years for treatment of any condition 
which existed in the five years before the policy started.
In July 2019, Mr H needed treatment for anxiety. His partner contacted Vitality to make a 
claim on Mr Hs behalf. Vitality said in view of the length of time the policy had been in 
operation, it would need further information from Mr Hs GP before it could confirm whether it 
would accept the claim.
Mr H complained about the fact Vitality wouldnt immediately agree to provide cover. In the 
meantime, he decided to self-fund his private treatment.
In August 2019, Vitality issued a final response letter on Mr Hs complaint about it not 
immediately agreeing to provide cover. It considered that it had acted correctly by seeking 
further information before making a decision as to whether to provide cover. It noted it was 
still waiting for information from Mr Hs GP.
In September 2019, Vitality received the information from Mr Hs GP. It noted that Mr H had 
suffered from anxiety in the five years before the policy started. On this basis, it decided that 
his claim for his current treatment was excluded from cover. It advised Mr H of this.
Mr H complained to Vitality about its decision. He said his current episode of anxiety, as his 
GP had confirmed, was new and distinct from any previous episodes. He said he had 
checked and been assured on taking out the policy that in such a situation the moratorium 
would not apply.
Vitality told Mr H that any complaint concerning wrong information which may have been 
given during the sale of the policy would need to be addressed to B.
In October 2019, Vitality issued its final response letter on Mr Hs complaint about its 
decision to decline the claim. Vitality maintained its decision. It said it was satisfied it had 
acted fairly and in accordance with the terms of the policy.    
Mr H was unhappy at Vitalitys response. In April 2020, he referred his complaint to us. He 
said he had been led to believe his policy would provide cover if he were to need treatment 
for anxiety or depression provided it was unrelated to any previous episode. He said Vitality 
had responded too slowly when he made his claim and by the time it confirmed its decision 
to decline cover he had incurred nearly £10,000 of private medical costs. He wanted Vitality 
to meet these costs, provide him with cover should he need future treatment, and 
compensate him for the distress he had suffered.
Our investigator explained that she could not consider Mr Hs complaint about what he was 
told when he took out the policy because that was nothing to do with Vitality but was a 
matter between him and B. She further said she couldnt consider his complaint about the 
fact Vitality took time before deciding on his claim because he hadnt referred his complaint 
on this point to us within six months of receiving Vitalitys final response letter of August 
2019. She was able to consider his complaint about Vitalitys decision to decline his claim. 
However, she was satisfied that Vitality had acted fairly and she therefore recommended 
that the complaint should not be upheld. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings. He considered that B had been acting as 
Vitalitys agent and that Vitality should therefore be bound by what B had told him at the time 
of sale.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me first clarify that when B sold the policy it was acting not on behalf of Vitality but on 
behalf of Mr H. This means B was not Vitalitys agent and Vitality cannot be held responsible 
for Bs actions. Mr H has now made a complaint to B about the sale and has referred that 
complaint to us which is being dealt with under a separate complaint reference. I cannot 
consider those issues in my decision on this complaint which is against Vitality.
Let me also clarify that the rules under which we operate say that we can normally only 
consider a complaint if it is referred to us within six months of the business issuing its final 
response letter. In this case, Mr H complained to Vitality when it said it had to seek further 
information to enable it to make a decision on his claim. Vitality issued its final response to 
that complaint in August 2019 and Mr H didnt refer his complaint to us until April 2020 which 
was more than six months later. This means I cant consider Mr Hs complaint about Vitalitys 
action in seeking further information before making a decision on his claim.
However, I am able to consider Mr Hs complaint about Vitalitys decision to decline his 
claim.
Mr Hs policy is underwritten on a moratorium basis and started in December 2018. The 
policy states:
If you or your insured dependants have a moratorium underwriting basis:
We will not pay for treatment of any medical condition or related condition which in the five 
years before your cover start date you:
have received medical treatment for
had symptoms of
have asked advice on or
to the best of your knowledge were aware existed.
This is called a 'pre-existing medical condition'.
His GP confirmed that Mr H had suffered anxiety and depression in the past, albeit not since 
2015. However, this would seem to imply that Mr H had suffered from anxiety at some point since December 2013 and indeed Mr H seems to have acknowledged that he had suffered 
symptoms of, and received treatment for, anxiety in the five years before the policy started. 
This meant it was a pre-existing condition for the purposes of the policy. On that basis, 
I consider it was reasonable for Vitality to say treatment of his condition was excluded from 
cover.
Mr H says, and his GP has confirmed, that the current episode is unrelated any previous 
episode. However, I dont consider that this means it was unfair for Vitality to apply the 
moratorium. The policy wording doesnt indicate that exceptions are made for fresh episodes 
of a particular condition and I dont consider that Mr H has reasonably shown that such an 
exception should be made in his case.
It is unfortunate that Mr H incurred significant medical costs while he was waiting for Vitality 
to confirm its decision on his claim. However, I cant see that Vitality ever gave him reason to 
expect his claim was likely to be covered. On the contrary, it drew his attention immediately 
to the moratorium and indicated it was likely the claim would be declined. I therefore 
consider Mr H incurred the costs at his own risk and knowing that Vitality eventually would 
probably not agree to provide cover.
In summary, while I sympathise with Mr H over the position he has found himself in, 
I consider that Vitality has done nothing wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman