DRN-4090011
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc offered them a mortgage, but when they 
asked for a little more lending, said it would no longer lend to them at all. They say theyre 
paying much more on the mortgage they got elsewhere, as mortgage rates rose in this time.
What happened
The facts of this case were set out in full in my provisional decision, so I shall simply 
summarise below. And, as most of our dealings have been with Mr M whilst handling this 
complaint, Ill mainly refer to it being his complaint throughout this decision, although its 
actually a complaint on behalf of both Mr and Mrs M as joint mortgage applicants.
Mr and Mrs M applied for a mortgage with HSBC. Mr M submitted the application.
Mr M told us about the sources of Mrs Ms income. Some of this income could, arguably, be 
said to fall into a category which HSBC disregards for lending purposes. Mr M said that hed 
discussed this with HSBC before applying, and been directed on how to declare Mrs Ms 
income. He and Mrs M then received a mortgage offer from HSBC.
Mr M and Mrs M then decided they wanted to borrow a little more, and also needed to 
amend part of their previous application. So they applied again, and were then told that 
HSBC wouldnt lend to them at all.
Mr M said this was entirely contrary to what hed been told at the outset. And he said 
because of all the time this took to resolve, when he and Mrs M got a different mortgage 
elsewhere, they were paying more each month. Mortgage rates had since risen.
HSBC denied that Mr M had been directed to declare Mrs Ms income in this particular way. 
It accepted it had made a mistake in making the first offer to Mr and Mrs M, but it said that it 
wouldnt honour that offer now. It thought Mr M knew, or ought to have known, that the first 
application was outside of HSBCs lending policy before he applied.
HSBC offered to pay Mr and Mrs M £300 in compensation for its mistake in making the first
offer, but it wouldnt pay the additional costs that Mr M said he and Mrs M were incurring on
the mortgage they eventually got elsewhere.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that it was fair for 
HSBC to decline the second application, and it had made a mistake in making an offer in 
response to the first application. But she didnt think it had taken an unreasonable time to 
reach its decision. She said she couldnt tell what rate Mr and Mrs M might have got, if 
HSBC had said no sooner. And she said it wasnt HSBCs fault that interest rates went up 
in this time. She didnt ask HSBC to pay more than the £300 it had offered.
Mr M disagreed. He said he had double checked that what he was doing was correct, before 
applying. But now he and Mrs M were paying thousands a year more in interest because of 
HSBCs mistake. He said £300 couldnt possibly be adequate compensation for that. Mr M 
wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final 
decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt think HSBC had 
to pay more than it had already offered. The below summarises what I said then: 
I was satisfied that HSBCs policy on income for mortgage lending purposes did set out 
that some income types would be disregarded, and that this is a commercial decision it 
was entitled to take. 
HSBC declined Mr and Mrs Ms second mortgage application because, by then, it 
understood that some of Mrs Ms income fell into a category it disregards. I think that 
was a reasonable decision for HSBC to have reached, in line with its published policy. 
And I dont think it was obliged to lend outside of its lending criteria solely because it had 
mistakenly issued an offer originally.
However, Mr and Mrs M had already received a mortgage offer from HSBC. And when it
refused the second application, it also decided not to honour the first offer. Id set out 
that I thought HSBC was entitled to decline the second application. So, I then turned to 
the question of whether HSBC was entitled to withdraw the original mortgage offer.
HSBCs position on this appeared to be that it considered Mr M withdrew the first 
application, when he made his second application. I hadnt been able to see that it 
would have been clear to Mr M that submitting a second application would invalidate the 
first offer. Nor that Mr and Mrs M technically withdrew or cancelled the initial application. 
So, I thought about whether HSBC was entitled to withdraw the first application.
I understood there was a dispute about whether Mr M was directed to declare Mrs Ms 
income in a particular way. I set that aside, and looked at the conditions applicable to 
the first offer HSBC made. And I explained that I considered there were inaccuracies in 
the first application, which meant, under the conditions of the first mortgage offer, HSBC 
could reasonably have withdrawn that offer. I said that meant I couldnt fairly and 
reasonably require HSBC to honour the first mortgage offer it made, or to compensate 
Mr and Mrs M for the additional costs that they now say they face, because they later 
had to make a different mortgage application elsewhere.
Like our investigator, I thought the offer HSBC made, of £300 in compensation for 
incorrectly issuing a mortgage offer, did provide a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
very specific circumstances of this case. I knew Mr and Mrs M would be disappointed, 
but I didnt think HSBC had to pay them more than that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have replied to my provisional decision, but neither side has offered any further 
evidence or argument in this case. Mr M said he and Mrs M accepted the decision, and 
HSBC simply said it would pay the amount it had previously offered.Having reconsidered the issues in this case, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the 
decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr and Mrs M the sum of £300 which 
it previously offered as compensation for this complaint, if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman