DRN-1300576
complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr P took out a credit card in June 1992. At the same time he bought a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover the repayments on his credit card for up to 12 months at a time if he 
couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. It also provided life cover for 
the outstanding balance.
Mr P says he didnt ask for the PPI. He say it wasnt explained to him and he didnt realise 
he had it until after he received the card. He says he thought it must have been compulsory.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagrees, so his case 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr P applied for the credit card by postal application. Halifax has provided a copy of Mr Ps 
original application form and this shows that Mr P ticked a box to say he wanted the PPI. 
The preceding wording recommended the cover, but made it clear it was optional. He 
couldve left this box blank if he didnt want it.
After Mr P was sent our initial view, he replied that he applied for the card in a branch of 
Halifax and he had been told that if he took out PPI his credit application would definitely be 
accepted. This is very different to Mr Ps original complaint, which indicated he had no 
knowledge of the PPI being applied to his card and that he only discovered it later when he 
saw it applied to his account.
Im not satisfied I can rely on Mr Ps recall of events here. On balance, on the information I 
have, I think its likely Mr P chose to take the PPI knowing he didnt have to.
Halifax didnt provide personal advice to Mr P about the PPI, so it didnt have to take 
reasonable steps to make sure it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr P had all 
the information about the PPI to make his own decision.
The application form doesnt provide much information about the policy, so I think its likely 
Mr P didnt have all the information he shouldve done. But this doesnt mean I should 
automatically uphold Mr Ps complaint. I need to think about whether Mr P wouldve acted 
differently if hed had all the information he needed.I dont think more, or better, information wouldve changed Mr Ps mind about the policy. I 
say this because:
Mr P was eligible for the policy, and he wasnt affected by any of the terms which 
mightve made it more difficult to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr P wouldve received some sick pay from his employer. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for much longer than his full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. So it provided an additional benefit;
Mr P wouldve likely received some redundancy pay, but again  the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to this and for up to a year at a time. So any redundancy pay Mr 
P received from the government or his employer couldve been used for other 
uninsured expenses;
Mr P says that he had a small amount of savings which could have been used to help 
meet his repayments. But the savings wouldnt have lasted long and Mr P would still 
have had other expenses hed need to have covered if he wasnt able to work;
The cost of the policy was comparable with other similar policies on the market at the 
same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty.
 
So I dont think Mr P lost out as a result of Halifax not providing all the information it 
shouldve done in relation to the terms and exclusions of the policy.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint, so it follows that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
dont have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman