DRN-2784017
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Paysafe Financial Services Limited (trading as Neteller) wont refund 
money he lost to a fraudster.
  
What happened
Mr Y needed to change the name on his Neteller account. He contacted the business on 
social media to ask how he might go about doing so. Mr Y didnt realise at the time, but he 
had actually contacted a fraudster posing as Neteller. 
The fraudster asked Mr Y for some information including his email address, date of birth and 
a copy of his photo ID. Mr Y provided this information as requested. He also logged into his 
account and sent a screenshot when prompted to do so by the fraudster.
Around 20 minutes then passed without Mr Y hearing much more from the fraudster. He 
logged back on to his Neteller account and discovered transactions had been made without 
him knowing, totalling $3,150 USD. Mr Y initially questioned this with the fraudster, asking 
what had happened, as he still believed he was genuinely speaking with a Neteller 
representative. As the conversation progressed, Mr Y became more suspicious until he 
realised all was not as it seemed.
He then contacted Neteller using legitimate details and the deception was fully revealed. 
Mr Y asked that his money be refunded but, following an investigation, Neteller declined to 
do so.
It said in its final response to Mr Y both that there was insufficient evidence that the 
payments were unauthorised, and that Mr Ys details were possibly compromised outside of 
Netellers systems. That was on the basis the transactions had been made using Mr Ys 
security information. It declined to refund any of the payments and so Mr Y brought his 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened and thought the complaint should be 
upheld, with Neteller refunding Mr Y in full. He also suggested an interest award of 8% 
simple from the date the transfers took place. It disagreed and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Broadly speaking, a customer can only be held liable for payments out of their Neteller 
account if theyve authorised them themselves or if theyve acted with gross negligence in 
failing o keep their security information safe. 
Neteller has been somewhat unclear as to its exact reasons for not refunding Mr Y. It seems 
to have said that the transactions were both authorised (with Mr Y having carried them out 
himself) and that they were unauthorised (in that he acted with gross negligence and 
disclosed his security information). Im not persuaded there is evidence to support either 
position, and so responsibility on Mr Ys part isnt established. 
Mr Y has provided evidence which shows his conversation with the fraudster. Theres 
nothing about the evidence provided that makes me question its legitimacy and theres 
nothing to suggest its been altered in any way. I note, for example, that the timing of the 
conversation matches up with when the transactions take place and some changes to Mr Ys 
account, which Ill come on to.
This evidence persuades me that events unfolded as Mr Y described and that he didnt 
make the payments himself. The position is further supported by the fact that Mr Ys secure 
ID (one of the three things required to make a payment) was reset prior to the payments 
being made. This points to someone changing the details without Mr Ys knowledge in order 
to be able to transact on his account. 
Im unsure as to why, but Neteller has erroneously maintained that none of Mr Ys security 
information was changed or reset. But the evidence its provided clearly shows that isnt the 
case. And given the change comes when Mr Y is discussing his account with a fraudster, I 
believe its more likely than not that it was that person that changed the secure ID. 
Having established that I believe its more likely than not Mr Y didnt auhtorise the payments, 
the question is then whether he has acted with gross negligence. There isnt a strict 
definition of gross negligence established in the industry. But I take it to mean actions that 
are significantly beyond ordinary carelessness.
There are several details within the circumstances of Mr Ys case that need to be considered 
here:
Mr Y contacted Neteller on social media;
Neteller says there is a warning on its website stating it wont ask for personal or 
sensitive information on social media;
Mr Y did disclose some personal details on social media.
I have thought about each of these points and I dont find they individually or severally 
establish gross negligence on Mr Ys part. I believe, generally speaking, many customers will 
contact businesses on social media, and many will legitimately reply. Theres nothing to 
suggest Mr Y saw the warning on Netellers website before engaging in the conversation he 
did. And, in any case, the information he did share was quite limited. Its likely that the 
sharing of his email address, date or birth and the copy of his ID did contribute to his loss. 
But I dont think he has been so careless in sharing such details that he can be said to have 
been grossly negligent. Indeed, at one point, the fraudster does ask Mr Y for his new 
password  once hes changed it following the discovery of the transaction  and he refuses 
to supply it. That suggests an awareness on limiting whats shared online.
Im conscious here that there isnt a complete explanation as to how a third-party fraudster 
was able to carry out these transactions. Mr Y doesnt appear to have shared sufficient 
information for someone to have done so. But it will often be the case that there isnt a 
complete picture and yet someone like Mr Y has still been an innocent and blameless victim. 
Neteller itself recognises, in its response to Mr Y and this service, that there are many ways 
that fraudsters obtain enough information to steal a victims money. Given all of the 
circumstances, as Ive summarised them here, Im persuaded its more likely than not this is whats happened to Mr Y, and without him having acted with gross negligence. So Neteller 
ought to now compensate him for his loss.  
Putting things right
Neteller should now:
refund the $3,150 USD Mr Y lost to the fraud; and
pay interest at 8% simple per year on that amount from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement as hes been deprived of the use of those funds for all that time, and 
where he had clear intentions for the money.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Paysafe Financial Services Limited.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman