DRN-2800800
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Britannia didnt treat 
them fairly when the term of their interest only mortgage expired.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a residential mortgage in 1991 with Britannia. It gave them consent to 
let the property in 2009. This consent expired in 2010. 
The mortgage is on an interest only basis. While Mr and Mrs S made some overpayments, 
the mortgage term expired in May 2016 with an unpaid balance of about £26,000.
After the term expired, Britannia found out the property had been let out since 2010 without 
consent. Britannia said as the term had expired it wouldnt give consent to let. And as Mr and 
Mrs S didnt live in the property it wouldnt extend the term. Mr S made repayment proposals 
which Britannia didnt accept.
Mr S told Britannia the tenants would leave in mid-2018 and the property would be sold. 
Britannia gave Mr and Mrs S until February 2019 for the sale to complete. However, it then 
found that the property was still tenanted and hadnt been marketed for sale. Britannia 
started legal proceedings.
A court hearing was adjourned in late 2019 after agreement was reached for monthly 
payments over 18 months to clear the balance. However, Mr S then said this wasnt 
affordable as he had tax payments he hadnt included in his income and expenditure. He 
asked to make reduced monthly payments. Britannia declined, saying its income and 
expenditure calculation showed the agreed payments were still affordable, and Mr S hadnt 
provided evidence of his tax payments.
Mr and Mrs S stopped making payments. They say theyre worried that Britannia will take 
action for possession, and this matter has caused them stress and sleepless nights.
Our investigator said Britannia allowed Mr and Mrs S reasonable time to repay the debt 
before starting legal action. It didnt have to agree to them repaying the debt over a further 
18 months, or agree to extend this further when Mr S asked to reduce the agreed monthly 
payments. Britannia didnt have to agree to take £20,000 in full and final settlement. Our 
investigator said Britannia had treated Mr and Mrs S fairly.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. Mr S said they couldnt afford the amount Britannia asked for and 
Mrs S has health conditions and disabilities. He said if Britannia had agreed to his proposals 
the balance would have been paid by now. He also said it was unreasonable it didnt accept 
£20,000 to settle the debt, which a family member had offered to lend them.
Mr S said they applied for a buy to let mortgage and cant understand how this changed. He 
also said they took out a repayment mortgage with permission to let and Britannia later 
approached them and advised them to switch to interest only, for which it charged a fee. He 
said they paid a fee for consent to let and this didnt have a time limit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S borrowed the money from Britannia and they do have to pay it back. It was 
reasonable for Britannia to expect them to repay the money when the term expired in mid-
2016. 
I think Britannia gave Mr and Mrs S reasonable time look into their options to repay the 
mortgage. When Mr S said they intended to sell the property, Britannia allowed them six 
months to market and sell the property. The mortgage term expired in 2016 and Britannia 
didnt start legal proceedings until 2019. Britannia then agreed to monthly repayments over 
18 months. It assessed the amount to be paid each month as affordable based on the 
income and expenditure information provided by Mr and Mrs S. It says it still assessed this 
as affordable after Mr S said he had tax payments to make.
Mr S says had Britannia agreed to his proposals the mortgage would have been repaid by 
now. If Mr and Mrs S have access to £20,000, as Mr S says they do, there was nothing to 
stop them using this to reduce the mortgage balance. And, even without a formal agreement 
in place, there was nothing to stop them making higher monthly payments to reduce their 
mortgage balance if they had the means to do so. 
Britannia valued the property. Based on this and Mr Ss comments about the loan to value 
its likely the sale of the property would raise more than enough funds to repay the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs S do have means to repay the mortgage, by selling the property if need be. That 
might mean having to give the tenants notice to leave the property. Mr and Mrs S could 
consider taking independent financial advice about other options that might be available to 
them, such as re-mortgaging with a buy to let mortgage. 
Its five years since the term of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage expired. I think Britannia treated Mr 
and Mrs S fairly: it gave them time to look into their options and agreed a repayment plan 
with them. Mr S has described the health issues Mrs S is dealing with, and Im very sorry for 
this. However, Mr and Mrs S dont live at the property, and while I sympathise with Mrs S I 
dont think its fair to require Britannia to hold possession action due to Mrs Ss health issues.
Mr S made various repayment proposals to Britannia which it didnt accept. The debt owed 
to Britannia is secured by a charge on the property. It doesnt have to accept a payment of 
part of the outstanding debt in full and final settlement. And it doesnt have to accept monthly 
repayments over a period that it says is unreasonably long. In the circumstances, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to require Britannia to accept the repayment proposals put 
forward by Mr and Mrs S.
Mr S commented about the type of mortgage they took out, how and when it was on interest 
only terms and whether its residential or a buy to let. As these issues werent part of the 
complaint brought to us I wont look into them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman