DRN-2475557
The complaint
Mrs B complains that TSB Bank plc stopped paying interest on her account.
What happened
Mr B brings this complaint on behalf of Mrs B. He told us that he opened a TSB classic plus
account in around November 2014 for Mrs B. This complaint deals with that account. Further
decisions will deal other complaints on similar issues that he has brought to our service.
Mr B said that he tried to log on to this account for Mrs B in July 2019 and wasnt able to
access her online banking. Mrs B would have to go into a branch to get this access
reinstated. I understand that she hasnt yet been able to do this.
Mr B brought this complaint after complaining about problems with interest on other
accounts he holds with TSB. He hasnt yet been able to access this account on Mrs Bs
behalf, but he presumes this account isnt receiving interest either.
TSB said this account stopped receiving interest after July 2016. Interest hasnt resumed.
Interest on these accounts is longer payable.
TSB said that there was a problem with Mrs Bs address, so it said that it wasnt writing to
her at the address it currently holds. It would like Mrs B to confirm her current address.
TSB said that this problem with the address wasnt the reason that Mrs B wasnt getting
statements. She was still signed up for paperless statements. But she was no longer signed
up for paperless correspondence. So she wouldnt receive interest on this account.
TSB said that there are conditions for the payment of interest on this account. It hadnt
applied those conditions before 31 January 2015. It said that after this it did so. Before it
applied the conditions, it started to remind customers to register for internet banking, sign up
for paperless correspondence and pay £500 per month. It said that for customers who didnt
do this, the account stopped accruing interest after June 2016, with the last payment made
in July 2016.
TSB has also told us that when it checked the account for Mrs B, she wasnt registered for
internet banking. TSB has suggested that Mrs B has changed her registration for online
banking.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Ive not set out his detailed
reasoning, as I havent adopted it.
Mr B disagreed. He wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to
me for decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr B has provided very detailed observations on this complaint. I have not set out 
above all of those points, but I have considered everything that he has supplied to us.
Mr B said he set up this account on Mrs Bs behalf. He logged in a few times in 2014-
15 to make sure that the monthly payment of £500 was going into each account. But 
he said once he was happy that was working, he logged in very little after that. He 
said he may not have logged in after July 2015.
Before I start to look at what happened that resulted in interest being stopped on this
account, and whose fault that may have been, I want to set out that our service does 
expect customers to monitor their own accounts. As background, Mr B and Mrs B 
may wish to be aware that our service will usually expect that people will check their 
accounts regularly, and much more frequently than once every twelve months. So, if 
interest should be paid on an account, and it isnt paid for several years, even if I 
thought the bank was at fault initially, I wouldnt necessarily say that a bank has to 
pay back all the missed interest. I would expect a customer to notice this, and to alert 
the bank to this.
Mr B was managing this account for Mrs B, and he didnt monitor the account after 
August 2016. Interest stopped being paid after July 2019, and Mr B didnt realise this
until he found he couldnt log in, during summer 2019.
That means we now have to look back some time to see what happened, to result in 
interest not being paid from July 2016.
Its worth mentioning at this point that TSB experienced a significant IT failure in 
2018. Although I dont think that failure is the reason why interest stopped being paid 
in this case, I have been conscious in addressing this complaint that TSB might not 
have complete customer records for Mrs B for everything that happened before 2018. 
I dont think it would be fair to uphold this case solely because TSB later experienced 
this IT failure, and cant always show the full details of what happened.
Ill now turn to the conditions for receiving interest, whether I think these were met or 
not, and why. 
I dont think weve yet established why interest stopped being paid on this account. 
Although we may not be able to tell for sure now what happened in 2016, I think we 
can consider what is most likely to have happened.
I can see that Mr B has concentrated on whether paper statements were issued. Mrs 
B says she hasnt been receiving these. And I think thats likely to be right. I dont 
think that TBS switched off paperless statements in July 2016 when the interest 
stopped, or started sending paper statements.
Mrs B did not move in this period. But TSB said it received a change of address form 
for her in early 2015. It wasnt able to update her address then, and it hasnt been 
able to do so since.
It has stopped sending her post, although it has also said it is still able to send her a 
new bank card. But TSB has also confirmed that Mrs B is still registered for 
paperless statements.So I dont think that is key. 
TSB says that it thinks Mrs B cancelled her internet banking. 
I dont think thats what happened in this case either.
I think its worth setting out a little background to these accounts here, before I set 
out what I do think happened.
The documents given to Mrs B when this account was opened make clear that the 
payment of interest on these accounts is subject to certain conditions. Those 
conditions are that she must 
- pay into your account at least £500 during the calendar month: and
- have registered for paperless statements and paperless correspondence, if
available.
Mr B says he registered for Mrs B, so thats it. Her account should get interest. But 
this isnt all that the document he sent us says. It also goes on to say If you do not 
meet both of the Plus conditions you will not earn interest on the amount in your 
account.  Further details on the Plus conditions and what happens if you do not 
meet the Plus criteria can be found in the account literature. So its clear that the 
document Mr B has shown us doesnt contain all the conditions of this account.
TSB has explained to our service that it didnt enforce the account conditions before 
2015. It didnt do anything about customers who werent using their online banking 
before then. But in 2015, it started to issue warnings for customers who werent 
complying with the conditions, as it understood them. In July 2016, it stopped paying 
interest to a number of account holders who werent reading their online 
correspondence. TSB considers that reading those messages is a condition for 
receiving interest on these accounts.
I understand that when TSB first discussed the problems on his accounts with Mr B 
in the branch, it said it thought this was probably what had gone wrong. But its since 
said it thought that Mr B and Mrs B must have removed their online banking.
But we know that Mr B received an email in July 2015, which does warn him about 
the consequences of not reading his electronic correspondence. That contained the 
following warning about not reading online correspondence 
Personal Current Account and Savings Account
Correspondence
If you do not log onto Internet Banking for three consecutive months we will 
send you an email asking you to look at your correspondence online. We will 
also send you additional reminders by e-mail after six months and then again 
at nine months. 
If you do not log on for twelve consecutive months we will start sending you 
paper correspondence again.
So I think that what is likely to have happened in this case, is that TSB stopped 
sending Mrs B important documents by electronic correspondence, because it could 
see that she wasnt reading this correspondence. And I think that in turn is why she 
stopped getting interest. Because she had stopped complying with the condition of 
this account that requires her to receive all her correspondence online.
If TSB switched that electronic correspondence off, then that raises two very closely 
linked questions  is it a term of the account, that electronic correspondence has to be read to get interest? And is it reasonable for TSB to switch off electronic 
correspondence, if its not being read?
The terms of these accounts dont expressly state that reading online messages is a
condition for receiving interest. But receiving electronic correspondence is.
Mrs B agreed to receive her correspondence electronically, including very important
documents like notification of charges. So I think it is reasonable to expect, if Mrs B 
agreed to receive all her important communications online, that she would realise 
that she needed to read these communications, or at least have someone do this on 
her behalf. I think the strong implication, when someone signs up for online 
communications, is that they are going to make arrangements to read those 
communications, and that they will do so reasonably frequently. I think that is so 
strongly implied, that I dont think it needs to be a separate term.
And Ive already mentioned that the correspondence Mrs B agreed to receive online 
included very important documents. So I think that it is reasonable for TSB to be 
concerned if Mrs B wasnt reading those letters. Although I know TSB cant evidence 
this now, the email Mr B has sent us, and the evidence Ive seen of what happened 
on this account, makes me think its most likely that TSB did switch off electronic 
correspondence. I think thats reasonable.
Unfortunately, Mrs B wont have received paper documents, because of the pre-
existing address problem on her account. But I dont think thats TSBs fault.
Once electronic documents are switched off, then interest stops. I think thats clear 
from the terms of the account. I think thats likely to be why interest stopped being 
paid in this case.
But some other things have gone wrong with this account too.
I note that this account is supposed to revert to paper statements if no one logs in for 
a year. 
Mrs B says she has never received paper statements for this account, and TSB says 
this account is still set to paperless. So I think that the account didnt revert to paper 
statements. 
I still think that the primary responsibility for keeping an eye on her accounts rests 
with Mrs B. Although TSB has failed to switch this account to paper statements, that 
wouldnt have made any difference in this case, because Mrs Bs address had 
already been blocked after her address change failed in 2015.
I also note that Mr B found that Mrs B was blocked from online banking in summer 
2019. I dont know exactly why this happened. TSB said this shouldnt happen just 
because of the length of time since online banking was used. TSB said to Mr B that 
Mrs B must have switched off her online banking. I dont think thats likely. I think it 
could possibly be related to TSBs IT failure. But I think what TSB has said here has 
added to the confusion in this case, and delayed a resolution. So Ill bear that in mind 
when I think about compensation in this case.
Ive explained what I think is likely to have caused interest to stop being paid on this 
account  the paperless correspondence wasnt being read. Ive also explained that 
TSB seems to have me to have caused some confusion in the resolution of this 
complaint.I dont think TSB has to pay for missed interest. But I do think it should pay £100 in
compensation for this complaint, for confusion in resolving this complaint. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both TSB and Mr B have sent us further representations, and TSB has now sent our service 
new evidence, but I dont think thats relevant to this case. I havent changed my mind on the 
appropriate award in this case. Ill explain why Ive reached that decision.
Mr B commented on the final response letter, which he hadnt received at the time. But he 
said that he thought wed moved beyond that now. He was happy that I had acknowledged
failures on TSB's part, and decided he and Mrs B should be paid some compensation. 
Mr B wanted us to consider that hed been deprived, in his view, of the opportunity to 
complain earlier on this case, because hed been told that his other two complaints (for the 
accounts he is party to) would be resolved within eight weeks. He said that if hed known this 
process would take well over a year, he wouldve made this complaint sooner. 
I dont think that TSB has prevented Mr B from bringing this complaint to our service earlier. 
And I know our service wrote to Mr B when he first made his other complaints, to apologise 
for delays we were experiencing in being able to focus on new cases. Mr B hasnt told us 
about anything that prevented him and Mrs B from going to a branch then, if they wished to 
do so.
Mr B has pointed to a number of what he considers to be contradictions in TSBs evidence. I 
have noted in my decision that TSB has changed its explanation for what has gone wrong in 
these cases. Mr B also said that TSB had now accepted that internet banking for him and 
Mrs B should not have been blocked. For clarity, it hasnt accepted that. It still maintains that 
Mr B must have deleted internet banking for himself and for Mrs B. As Mr B will see from this 
decision, I didnt think that was likely.
Mr B also said that he didnt think the compensation accounts for the time, effort, frustration 
and stress he and Mrs B had experienced in dealing with this. And he thought much of this 
would not have been necessary if they had received honest and timely responses.
I understand Mr Bs frustrations in trying to find out what has gone wrong here. And Im 
seeking to provide answers on that for him and for Mrs B. But its important to note that Ive 
not been able to see that TSB did anything wrong when it ended the payment of interest to 
this account. 
Mr B might like to note that, when a third party brings a case on someone elses behalf, our 
service can compensate the person whose account is being complained about, but were not 
able to pay compensation for any distress or inconvenience that the third party has suffered 
in bringing the complaint. Thats the effect of the legislation which allows us to make awards. 
That issue does affect this case, where Mr B has brought this complaint on behalf of Mrs B. I 
dont think I can fairly increase the payment of compensation I have suggested for whats 
gone wrong in this case.TSB wanted me to reconsider, and it has offered new evidence in support of part of its 
argument. It said that, although it was previously a term of the account that it would revert to 
paper statements if no one logged in for a year, that had then changed. It didnt think that it 
shouldve sent Mrs B paper statements. But as TSB stopped sending Mrs B post in May 
2015, I dont think thats relevant here. 
TSB has also said that it did start to send paper statements to customers after its IT failure in 
July 2018. But we know that Mrs B already wasnt receiving correspondence at this time. So, 
whilst this isnt TSBs fault, Mrs B didnt get these statements.
TSB also wanted to point out what it said were inaccuracies in the provisional decision. It 
mentioned a notification sent in 2014, and said that this didnt say interest would stop after 
June 2016, it said interest wouldnt be paid from February 2015. TSB has already sent us 
this 2014 notification, but I dont think its relevant here. Mrs B was getting interest until July 
2016, and an email Mr B sent us, referred to above, mentions no payments after that date if 
electronic correspondence wasnt read. 
TSB said that my view suggests Mr B had admitted not having logged on after July 2015, so 
TSB thought Mr B didnt monitor this account, on Mrs Bs behalf, prior to the August 2016 
date Id mentioned. Mr B didnt admit this, and I dont think my decision suggests otherwise. 
Mr B said has said he may not have logged on after this. So we dont know when he last 
logged on. It seems most likely that Mr B simply doesnt remember. My decision mentioned 
August 2016, because Mrs B had stopped receiving interest on this account then. So it 
seemed to me very likely that Mr B didnt log on from August 2016 onwards, because 
otherwise he wouldve noticed the missing interest.
TSB said Id found that Mrs B was blocked from online banking in Summer 2019. But TSB 
said she wasnt blocked. She (or Mr B on her behalf) was unable to log on because no 
online banking existed in her name at that time - it had been cancelled previously. And TSB 
felt that because there was no history of any bank error that would remove the internet 
banking access of two separate parties (either before or after the IT update) it was 
unreasonable for me to suggest this was a TSB error.
I know that TSB has maintained that it didnt remove Mr Bs and Mrs Bs internet access, 
either deliberately or accidentally. But the alternative explanation it has put forward just 
doesnt seem to me to be plausible. It seems particularly unlikely that Mr B would delete both 
his and Mrs Bs internet access (especially as he seems to have been well aware that 
banking electronically was required to operate this account) and then complain some years 
later that he and Mrs B were no longer getting interest across three separate accounts. 
Although TSB has firmly resisted this suggestion, I think its simply more likely that 
something has happened, over the years that Mrs B didnt access the account, to mean that 
she was no longer able to do so in 2019.
TSB said its branch gave Mr B the common explanation for customers who found they had 
not been receiving interest on the account for some time. And TSB said I was presumably 
aware that several customers have in the past had their paper correspondence setting 
reverted back to paper which stopped interest being paid. I also note that TSB told Mr B, 
shortly afterwards, that this explanation was wrong. 
TSB said Id suggested it had added confusion and delayed a resolution and this was 
reflected in the redress sum suggested. It didnt agree. But this issue has been ongoing for 
some time, and it has taken some time to resolve the details in this case. It took TSB some 
time, for example, to set out when Mrs B had stopped receiving post. So I do still think that TSB is partly responsible for the length of time its taken for this matter to come to a 
conclusion. And I still think a payment of £100 provides a fair and reasonable resolution to 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mrs B £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman