DRN-3147944
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as H, has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was 
forced to close due to Covid-19. 
Mr L and Mr B, who are partners of H, have brought the complaint on Hs behalf. Mr L has 
been the main correspondent.
What happened
H held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. H claimed on its policy after Hs 
business was impacted by Covid-19.
RSA said the policy did not cover Hs claim. It said the policy provided cover for loss due to 
closure or restrictions of Hs premises only if the notifiable human disease manifested itself 
at the premises. But RSA thought that Hs business had been impacted by the Governments 
imposed restrictions rather than because someone at its premises had Covid-19 and turned 
down its claim. 
RSA also said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance 
test case did not impact the outcome of the claim under Hs policy wording. 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr L brought Hs complaint to this service. Mr L said, in 
summary, that there was very limited testing for Covid-19 in March 2020, when H had been 
forced to close because of a communicable pandemic disease. It was unfair for RSA to 
require H to show there had been disease at the premises. He had anecdotal evidence that 
both patients and staff felt unwell in February and March 2020, but it was impossible to 
prove this was Covid-19 due to the lack of readily available testing at the time. 
Our investigator looked into Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
H had shown it was most likely that there was a case of Covid-19 at its business premises.
Mr L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said that H had not qualified 
for any Government support, which is why business interruption cover was so important. He 
wanted only what was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Hs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Hs claim.
The relevant part of the extension within Hs policy covers loss as a result of:
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Hs claim, the 
closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. For a case to have manifested itself at the 
premises, I think that someone would either need to have been diagnosed with Covid-19 or 
have displayed symptoms while at the premises. 
As Mr L says, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic. Also, 
the Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying 
symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able 
to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 manifested at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
Mr L says that he has anecdotal evidence that staff and patients felt unwell in February and 
March 2020. However, I havent seen anything except for his testimony to support this or 
that they felt unwell due to Covid-19. In this particular case, there is not enough evidence for 
me to conclude that it was more likely than not that a case of Covid-19 manifested itself at 
the premises. So, I dont think the extension provides cover in the circumstances of Hs claim 
and RSA was fairly entitled to turn down the claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr L was hoping for. But, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Hs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman