DRN-3731283
The complaint
Mr Ms representative has complained, on his behalf, that Periscope Wealth Ltd (PWL), an 
appointed representative of Sterling Wealth Ltd (SWL) unsuitably advised him to transfer his 
existing personal pension policy (PPP) to a self invested personal pension (SIPP). 
The representative has said that, during a review of his pension arrangements, Mr M had 
made it clear that he didnt wish to take unnecessary risk with his pension funds, but he now 
considered this to be the case  and that he has lost out financially.
What happened
The investigator who considered the complaint set out the background in her assessment 
dated 30 August 2022. Neither party appears to disagree with that background, and so Ive 
broadly set it out below, with some amendments for the purposes of this decision.
PWL completed a fact find in January 2017 to determine Mr Ms personal and financial
circumstances. Following this, it produced a recommendation letter on 15 February 2017.
These documents confirmed the following about Mr M:
He was 53 and married
He had two children, both of whom were financially independent
The income from his business was in excess of monthly expenditure
He owned his home which was mortgage free
He had an emergency fund to take care of unforeseen expenses
He was a basic rate taxpayer
He was seeking to save for a retirement fund
He had no plans to retire but might reduce his working hours at 67
He wanted to review his existing pension arrangements as he was concerned 
that the performance was poor, that there was a lack of fund choice, and that 
there could be a lack of flexibility when deciding to take benefits
He hadnt considered the level of income he would need in retirement.
The adviser also carried out a pension switching report and a full review of the existing PPP 
which was held with Abbey Life, and had a fund value of just under £44,000. They 
considered the following options:
1. Leave the existing scheme untouched
2. Leave the existing schemes but switch investment funds
3. Set up a new pension plan into which he could move his existing arrangements 
The adviser noted the outcome of the review of Mr Ms existing arrangements was as 
follows:
Poor overall performance
Lack of flexibility
Abbey Life didnt offer any income drawdown facility
Limited access to alternative Abbey Life funds and no access to other companies 
funds
Open market option to buy an annuity from any other provider
No guarantees linked to current pension
The adviser said that, after carrying out a full review, their advice was to switch the Abbey 
Life PPP into a SIPP with Novia. The adviser said this was because Novia offered an 
investment platform which allowed users to hold one or a number of different investment 
vehicles in once place and that it had access to a significant number of investment funds 
from different fund managers to allow a diversified portfolio. It also allowed the ability to 
switch funds at any time.
Mr Ms attitude towards investment risk was also detailed in the letter. It was confirmed
following completion of a risk profiling questionnaire that his risk profile was agreed as 5 on 
a scale of 1 to 10 (where 1 was the lowest risk and 10 the highest)  meaning he was 
recorded as a balanced investor.
Mr M scored a total of 26 based on his answers to the questions. A score of 26-29 equated 
to a risk level of 5, so it confirmed that he would be classed as a balanced investor - and 
Mr M agreed with this.
The adviser recommended that Mr Ms investment be managed by Organic Investment 
Management (OIM), as a discretionary fund manager (DFM). The letter explained that the 
DFM would manage the investment portfolio based on the level of risk Mr M was prepared to 
take and, as such, the investments would be directly managed by OIM within their Balanced 
Model Portfolio.
The adviser said that theyd recommended the services of a DFM as it would ensure Mr M 
had a team of investment professionals constantly monitoring the underlying portfolio on an 
active basis.
The letter confirmed that, although Mr M hadnt selected a particular retirement age, he
could take benefits at any time from age 55 without penalty.
The adviser also gave consideration to stakeholder suitability. It was noted that stakeholder
pensions had been designed to offer low charges. They also had a low minimum contribution
level and didnt penalise policyholders if they needed to stop contributions or move funds to
another provider. The adviser said they werent recommending a stakeholder plan as the 
SIPP offered greater flexibility when Mr M would be thinking about taking the benefits from 
his pension fund.
The letter confirmed that Mr M would pay PWL a fee of £1,539.80, which was 3.5% of the
amount invested for recommending and arranging the pension. They stated Mr M should 
also take advantage of the ongoing advisory service offered which would cost 0.75% per 
annum.
The annual cost for using Novia as the SIPP provider was detailed as 0.38%. The charges 
for using OIM as a DFM were recorded as 1.06% of the investment per annum.
The letter said that, although the overall costs and charges associated with the 
recommended plan would be higher than the existing Abbey Life plan, the returns from the 
new investments only needed to improve on the performance of the Abbey Life pension by 
1.5% per annum to increase the value of the pension fund at retirement.Mr Ms representative complained to SWL in July 2021, but dissatisfied with the response, it 
then referred the matter to this service.
In her assessment of the complaint, the investigator set out her reasons as to why she 
considered it should be upheld, summarised as follows:
The recommendation letter confirmed that the charges for the new plan would be 
higher, due to those levied by the platform provider, the DFM and the adviser fees.
The available evidence didnt support the position that Mr M wished to switch his 
pension. PWL had contacted Mr M and hed followed the advice it had given him.
But it didnt appear as if Mr M had wanted or needed to switch his pension 
arrangements.
Although one of the main stated reasons for the switch was that the existing PPP 
offered a limited range of investment funds, there was nothing to suggest that Mr M 
had an interest in being able to access a range of different funds.
Mr M hadnt made any fund switches in the time that hed held his PPP, or queried 
what funds were available.
Mr M had no particular investment experience, holding only cash ISAs in addition to 
his pension arrangements. He confirmed this limited knowledge/experience in the 
fact find.
Mr M held his funds in his existing PPP as follows: Abbey European Pension Fund 
(5%); Abbey International Pension Fund (40%); and Abbey Security Pension Fund 
(55%).
The first two of those funds appeared to suit a balanced investor, the third  in which 
the majority of the pension funds were invested  was a lower risk fund.
There seemed to be no need for Mr M to use a DFM  he hadnt previously been 
regularly switching funds or wanting access to a variety of investments. It seemed to 
be something he accepted because it had been recommended as the best way for 
him to achieve a better return on his pension.
Mr M had to pay additional charges for the DFM service, but his pension fund was 
quite modest, at just under £44,000. Consideration should have been given to a more 
basic arrangement, or one with access to a range of funds which were reviewed 
periodically.
Whilst Mr M didnt have a retirement age in mind, he was approaching 55, at which 
point his pension benefits would have been available to him if he wished to access 
them. And so the projected growth might not have been able to offset the impact of 
the additional costs incurred through the transfer.
At that age, it might also have been reasonable for Mr M to gradually begin reducing 
his exposure to investment risk, but the switch did the opposite  along with incurring 
higher charges which could potentially erode capital.
A further reason given for Mr M to transfer was that the existing PPP didnt offer an 
income drawdown facility. But there didnt appear to be any indication that this was what Mr M wanted to do. Consideration could in any case have been given to the 
manner of Mr M accessing his pension benefits when he came to retire.
The investigator recommended that SWL compare the value of Mr Ms current pension 
arrangements with the notional value of his PPP, had it remained in place. The latter value 
should also take account of any additional pension contributions Mr M may have made since 
the switch, the investigator said.
If any of the investments were illiquid, or could not be attributed a value, then their value 
should be assumed to be nil, but SWL could arrange for Mr M to pay any distributions he 
received from them in the future.
Any loss should in the first instance be paid into Mr Ms SIPP, but if this wasnt possible or 
would conflict with his annual allowance or any lifetime allowance protections in place, then 
the loss amount should be paid directly to him, with a notional deduction for the basic rate 
tax the investigator assumed Mr M would pay on his pension benefits in retirement.
SWL disagreed with the investigators conclusions, however, saying the following in 
summary:
PWL provided full details of the switch to Mr M, which included the charges, through 
the suitability reports, client meetings and the Pension Switch report.
PWL could only recommend a DFM as it was a restricted adviser. It could only 
choose from the risk rated portfolios managed by the DFM and this was clearly 
disclosed and discussed with Mr M.
The advice to switch was good, and it was only the wrongdoing at the DFM - which 
was beyond its control  which had meant that the investment hadnt worked.
It couldnt have predicted this, and it tried to do the best for Mr M, such as ceasing 
ongoing management charges whilst continuing to assist him.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator and for 
similar reasons. For ease of reference, Ill call the business complained of SWL in this 
section.
I think there would need to be a compelling rationale for someone in Mr Ms position, with a 
pension pot of just under £44,000, approaching his mid-fifties, and who had little investment 
knowledge or experience, to be moved to a higher risk plan which was subject to higher 
overall charges.
And I cant see that such a rationale existed here. Mr M may have been keen to secure 
better returns on his pension funds, which is perfectly understandable, but I dont think a 
suitable way of doing so was to subject his funds to an overall higher charging structure, with 
a limited number of years to recoup such additional costs. And this is quite amply demonstrated by the comparisons in the switching report between 
the existing plan and the Novia SIPP, which indicated the additional rates of growth required 
to age 65 by the Novia SIPP (at around 1.5% pa for all three bands of projected growth) to 
match the benefits which would be produced by the existing plan, and the effect on the 
overall fund value if the switch occurred and the anticipated levels of growth remained the 
same  which was estimated to be at around 15% less.
If Mr M was seeking better returns, then I think the range of funds  as indicated by the 
current offering from Phoenix Life, which took over Abbey Life - offered within his existing 
plan ought to have been sufficient for his purposes. Again, I dont think the size of Mr Ms 
pension fund warranted access to a wider array of pension funds than would already have 
been available to him, or that, as noted by the investigator, he had in any case demonstrated 
any particular desire to be invested in a more diverse fashion. 
And I also agree with the investigator that Mr M would have been receptive to the 
information and recommendation provided by SWL, and that, if he was being told that he 
could obtain better returns through implementing the advice, its likely that he would trust the 
professional party and accept the recommendation. 
It was of course up to SWL, as the professional party, to provide suitable advice, irrespective 
of the amount of information it may have provided to Mr M, or the risk warnings it provided. 
And as with the investigator, I dont think it did so in this instance. I note that SWL has said 
that its appointed representative could only recommend a DFM. This wasnt, however, the 
only option available. Having reviewed Mr Ms circumstances and objectives, including his 
limited knowledge and experience of investments, his age, and the size of his pension pot, 
the appointed representative could, of course, and should, in my view, have recommended 
that Mr M remain in his existing pension arrangement. 
As Ive said above, Mr M may have quite understandably wanted to maximise the returns om 
his pension funds, but I dont think that placing him into a higher charging arrangement, at 
his time of life, was the suitable course of action here. If anything, given the size of his 
pension funds, and that he would be unlikely to need the kind of (more expensive) active 
management associated with DFM, keeping costs to a minimum would in my view have 
been the suitable course of action. And if Mr M had wanted to explore higher risk options 
within the existing arrangement, he could have considered an internal fund switch.
Ive further noted SWLs comment that the investment strategy could have worked, had it not 
been for what its described as the wrongdoings of the DFM. And I understand the point 
being made. However, but for what I consider to have been the unnecessary and unsuitable 
recommendation given to Mr M to switch into the SIPP and invest via the DFM, Mr M would 
not have been exposed to the possibility of financial losses beyond those which might have 
been incurred through the day to day market movements within the fairly mainstream 
existing pension funds in his PPP. 
And I dont think the resulting financial losses from the switch are so far removed from the 
initial advice as to consider any actions of the DFM to be sufficiently intervening. I think 
losses within the SIPP, and through the actions of an additional third party which didnt 
previously exist - the DFM - beyond those which might have been incurred in the PPP would 
fall within a range of reasonably foreseeable outcomes when the advice was given. That 
these may have been in large part a result of, according to SWL, inappropriate investment 
activity on behalf of the DFM, wouldnt in my view mean that SWL wasnt primarily 
responsible for Mr Ms losses by effectively placing him in harms way in the first place.
And so it follows, for the reasons given, that I think the complaint should be upheld.Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr M as closely into the position he would have been but for the unsuitable 
advice.
As with the investigator, my view is that Sterling Wealth Ltd should undertake a comparison, 
as at the date of this final decision, between the notional value of the existing PPP (taking 
into account any additional contributions or withdrawals which Mr M has made since the 
switch) and the actual value of the SIPP.
If any of the SIPP funds are illiquid, cannot be bought by Sterling Wealth Ltd, or cannot 
otherwise be attributed a value, then they should be judged to have nil value. Sterling Wealth 
Ltd may wish to enter it an agreement (at its own cost) with Mr M to pay it any future 
distributions he may receive from such investments.
If the notional value of the PPP would have been higher, then there is a loss. Sterling Wealth 
Ltd should in the first instance pay this to Mr Ms SIPP, taking account of any charges and 
unused tax relief, but if this isnt possible or there are annual allowance or lifetime allowance 
protection issues, then the loss should be paid directly to Mr M, with the notional deduction 
outlined by the investigator to account for Mr M taking tax free cash at retirement, but being 
a basic rate taxpayer on his pension benefits  so an overall notional deduction of 15%.
If any of the investments are illiquid, Mr M may not be able to wind up the SIPP, which only 
exists due to the unsuitable advice. As such, Sterling Wealth Ltd should also pay Mr M five 
years SIPP fees (using those which were charged for the last year) to allow enough time for 
the SIPP to be wound up. 
Payment of any loss should be made within 28 days of Sterling Wealth Ltd being notified of 
Mr Ms acceptance of this decision. If it isnt, interest at 8% simple pa should be added to the 
loss from the date of this decision to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Sterling 
Wealth Ltd to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman