DRN-3876562
The complaint
Mr R is complaining Barclays Bank UK PLC applied a default on his credit file after he 
missed a repayment on his fixed sum loan agreement.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr R entered into a fixed sum loan agreement provided by Barclays to borrow 
£18,800. However, in November 2021 Mr Rs monthly repayment bounced, so Barclays 
wrote to him to say it would reattempt the payment in 7-10 days. This letter was returned to 
Barclays to say that Mr R had moved away. Barclays second attempt at making the payment 
also failed.
Barclays attempted to trace Mr R but werent able to do so. In January 2022 Barclays issued 
two default notices to the address it had on file advising him that he needed to make contact. 
As the account remained in arrears, Barclays placed a default on Mr Rs credit file. Shortly 
after, Mr R called Barclays to say hed noticed his February 2022 payment hadnt gone 
through. And he paid his February payment and also the missed payment from November.
In June 2022 Mr R complained that there was a default on his record as hed applied for a 
mortgage but had been declined. And he wanted Barclays to remove the default. Barclays 
didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint, so he referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint as she didnt think Barclays had done enough to 
contact Mr R to advise him he was in arrears. And she highlighted that it had only made one 
attempt to call him and had been writing to an address it knew Mr R didnt reside at.
Barclays didnt agree with the investigator as it said it had followed the Principles for the 
Reporting of Arrears Arrangements & Defaults (PRAAD). And it said Mr R was in the 
situation he was in because he didnt advise it of his change of address.
As Barclays didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I acknowledge Barclays comments that its followed the PRAAD. However the issue is that it 
was writing to an address it knew  Mr R wasnt residing at. Firstly, I think its arguable that 
sending default letters to an address that it knows Mr R wasnt residing at is a breach of the 
General Data Protection Regulation. But that isnt the issue that Im being asked to decide. 
So Im not going to comment any further on this. The issue for me to consider is whether 
Barclays took sufficient and reasonable steps to notify Mr R that his account was in arrears. I 
dont think it did. 
Once the initial letter it sent was returned, I would have expected Barclays to use other 
reasonable methods of communication to contact Mr R  e.g. telephone or email. However, 
it seems Barclays only made one attempt to telephone Mr R in January 2022  two months 
after it became aware it had a wrong address for him. I dont think this was fair and 
reasonable and I would have expected Barclays to have called him sooner. It could also 
have sent an SMS message advising him of the missed payment.
Barclays has also confirmed that Mr R provided it with an email address when he first 
applied for the loan, so it could have also emailed him to advise him of the issues. 
Im not saying that Barclays should have done all of these, but its clear that there were 
numerous options available to it to contact Mr R to advise him of the arrears other than 
continually writing to an address it knew Mr R did not live at. And Im satisfied that, had it 
taken further and more reasonable steps to notify Mr R of the issue, he would have made 
the payment and the default wouldnt have been applied. So it follows that I think Barclays 
should remove the default marker.
That said, I do agree that Mr R has to take some responsibility for what happens. It was his 
responsibility to ensure Barclays had accurate information about him  i.e. he should have 
updated his address when he moved house  and also ensure that there were sufficient 
funds in his account for the monthly payments to go through. So Im not requiring Barclays to 
compensate him for any losses that he may have incurred as a result of any adverse 
markers on his credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Barclays Bank UK PLC to remove the default from Mr Rs credit file. I make no 
further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman