DRN-3439613
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard hasnt refunded an 
amount he paid on his credit card for a modelling shoot for his daughter. He brings the claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75).
What happened
In November 2019 Mr H paid £1,515 on his Barclays credit card for a modelling contract for 
his daughter. He says he was promised his daughter would receive the following: 
High definition modelling photoshoot;
A portfolio on the supplier and their sister companys website; and
Promise of a modelling contract with the suppliers sister company.
However, Mr H later complained to the supplier that the photographs provided were of poor 
quality. He also said the portfolio was never uploaded onto the websites, nor did his 
daughter get offered a modelling contract.
Mr H says the supplier later offered to refund £740 of the contract, but Mr H didnt accept 
that as he didnt think £775 was a fair price for what he considered to be poor quality photos. 
So he contacted Barclays to dispute the transaction. 
Barclays initially processed a chargeback claim, but the supplier defended the claim on the 
basis that Mr Hs daughter had signed the contract. Barclays explained this to Mr H and also 
said it couldnt process a S75 claim because the contract was in his daughters name. So it 
said it wasnt able to refund the amount Mr H had paid. 
Mr H complained that Barclays wouldnt refund the amount hed paid. He said he had 
deputyship over his daughters affairs so he didnt think it was fair to not refund the amount 
paid because the contract was in his daughters name. Barclays still didnt uphold Mr Hs 
claim as it said the court appointed the deputyship after the contract was entered into. It also 
said there wasnt any evidence to support that there was a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.
Mr H still didnt agree with Barclayss decision so he referred his complaint to this service for 
a final decision. He also stopped paying his credit card balance because he maintained he 
didnt owe the £1,515.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Mr H paid for his daughters modelling contract on his Barclaycard credit card. S75 sets out 
that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Barclays is jointly liable for any breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making the 
supplier the agent of Barclays during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr H 
entering into the loan agreement, starting from when he and his daughter were first 
approached by the supplier. Essentially, this means Barclays is responsible for the acts or 
omissions of the supplier in relation to the sale of the loan to Mr H. In other words, Barclays 
has to stand behind the things the supplier said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the sales 
process.
Barclays has since agreed to refund the £1,515 Mr H has paid. And this is what I would have 
awarded for the suppliers misrepresentation. So I dont intend to comment any further on 
the merits of this complaint, other than to say I agree with what the investigator said. 
In this decision, Ive thought about whether Barclays should refund anything in addition to 
the £1,515 Mr H paid and also whether it should remove any adverse markers from his credit 
file. Barclays doesnt think it should have to do so because it says it was Mr Hs choice to not 
pay his credit card bill and it says it advised him of the implications of not doing so. 
I recognise Mr H didnt agree he should have to pay the £1,515, but his credit card account 
was a different contract to the modelling contract his daughter entered into. It wasnt 
Barclays who breached the terms of the contract or misrepresented it to Mr H. Mr H was 
contractually required to pay at least the minimum payment towards the credit card, but he 
didnt do so. I recognise Mr H felt strongly about what had happened, but I dont think this 
gave him fair grounds to choose to not pay his credit card account. Im also conscious Mr H 
paid off the balance on his credit card account in December 2019  thereby paying off the 
£1,515. Mr H stopped paying the card around August 2020 at which point the balance was 
around £1,650 which were regarding different transactions  i.e. didnt include the payment 
he made to the supplier.
I can see Barclays wrote to Mr H to advise him that, not paying his credit card account may 
result in adverse markers being placed on his credit file. Ultimately, I cant say it was unfair 
for Barclays to record the markers on his credit file and I cant reasonably require it to 
remove them.
However, as I said above, S75 gives Mr H a like claim against Barclays if there has been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. So, I must give consideration to 
what losses Mr H would likely be able to recover in court against the supplier when 
considering what the like claim might look like. Im mindful when doing this that courts dont 
typically tend to make awards for non-financial losses such as distress and inconvenience 
for breach of contract apart from in limited circumstances (which I dont think would be likely 
to apply here).
However, Mr H is out of pocket as a result of the suppliers breach of contract and 
misrepresentation. As I said above, Mr H paid off his credit card account in December 2019 
so I dont think Barclays charged him interest on this transaction. Im conscious courts 
typically award 8% simple interest where a consumer is out of pocket and I think thats fair in 
these circumstances. So I think Barclays should also pay 8% simple interest on the £1,515 
he paid from the date he paid it (18 November 2019) until he gets it back.
I acknowledge Barclays comments that it asked Mr H to provide evidence the deputyship 
started before his daughter entered into the modelling contract. And I do agree that he could 
have provided this evidence sooner. However, its doesnt make a difference to the outcome 
of this complaint for the reasons Ive set out above. So Im not going to comment on this 
further.
Barclays responded to accept my provisional decision. Mr H responded to say he accepts 
what I said in respect to the interest being paid. However, he said he still wanted the adverse 
markers removed and for Barclays to reinstate his credit card. He also said there wasnt any 
mention of the additional transactions incurred.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Hs additional comments, but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in 
my provisional decision.
I note Mr H is unhappy I havent required Barclays to remove the adverse markers from his 
credit file. But my provisional decision sets out why I havent required it do to so. His credit 
card account contract was a separate contract to the one he had with the modelling 
company. I appreciate he didnt think he should have to pay for the modelling contract, but 
that didnt give him grounds to not pay his credit card bill. Further to this, as I also set out in 
my provisional decision, the balance on his credit card was regarding different transactions  
i.e. not in respect to the modelling transaction. So the transactions on the card were 
unrelated to the modelling contract.
It was ultimately Mr Hs decision to not pay the credit card, but in doing so he was breaching 
the terms of the contract he had with Barclays. So I cant say Barclays acted unfairly in 
reporting the missed payments on his credit file and I cant reasonably require it to remove 
any adverse markers. I also note Mr H wants Barclays to reinstate his credit card account, 
but that would be a decision for Barclays and Mr H would need to contact Barclays directly if 
he wants his account reinstated.
Mr H has said hes not had a response to his queries regarding transactions on his account 
after he paid for the modelling contract. He says hes asked Barclays a number of times 
what the transactions were for and what the amounts charged are, but it hasnt responded. 
However, I dont think this issue formed part of his complaint with Barclays. This complaint 
relates to Barclays handling of Mr Hs S75 complaint. Mr H will need to raise a new 
complaint with Barclays if he wishes to take this issue further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and 
require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
1. refund the £1,515 Mr H paid for his daughters modelling contract; and
2. pay 8% simple interest on the £1,515 he paid from the date he paid it (18 November 
2019) until he gets it back*.
If Barclays thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
I dont award anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman