DRN-4219747
The complaint
Mr S complains that Crowdcube Capital Limited provided misleading information about an 
investment opportunity it promoted on its crowdfunding platform. He says there were failings 
in the due diligence carried out and as a result has now suffered a financial loss.  
What happened
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about a business
and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before deciding whether to
invest. In return for their investment they receive shares in the business.
Mr S made an investment in a food takeaway company, which I shall refer to as Company
A, via Crowdcubes crowdfunding platform in 2016. The pitch for the crowdfunding
campaign explained that:
We have 2 units in North London which together generated £1.05m of net turnover last 
year. We are currently raising equity finance to fund the next stages of our store roll out plan. 
[] We are looking to raise a minimum of £350,000 for a new store in East and/or West 
London and other exciting business improvements. 
Company A went on to open two new stores before it launched another fundraising round 
through Crowdcubes platform in 2017. Company A contacted its investors in 2018 and 2019 
explaining that it had decided to pivot its business model away from branded high street 
stores to an online delivery model via dark kitchens. Company A then entered into a 
creditors voluntary liquidation, following a winding up resolution being passed by Company 
As members in May 2020.
After this Mr S raised concerns with Crowdcube and requested he was compensated for 
losses he had suffered.
 
In January 2023, Crowdcube responded to the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary it 
said:
- Crowdcube conducted appropriate due diligence when verifying the investment 
opportunity and presenting the information, so that it complied with its obligations to 
ensure a financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading.
- Whilst there are potentially large returns to be made, the nature of early stage equity 
investment is that it is high risk and businesses do fail frequently and it made this 
clear.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr S responded to 
the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to reach decision.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023  and didnt propose to uphold the complaint. 
This is what I said:
At the time of promoting Company As 2016 investment opportunity, Crowdcube was 
authorised and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated 
firms are required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are:
-PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
-PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
-PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
-COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
-COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the
information contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company A,
it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the pitch, Crowdcube would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based.
The FCA also said that:
In relation to statements about future commercial success, this should include at
least a basic plausibility check. For example, if a borrower says it is going to build a
block of flats within 6 months but it does not have the relevant construction
permissions, it would seem reasonable for a platform to question the plausibility of
the project.
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November
2019 which explained that firms should:analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion
before approving its content for communication by an unauthorised person. The
extent and substance of the analysis and diligence needed to be able confirm that a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case and will
depend on the form and content of the promotion. When assessing whether a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading, a firm may need to consider (among other
things):
-The authenticity of the proposition described in the relevant promotion.
Whilst I appreciate Mr S had invested prior to the publication of these consultation papers
and guidance, I still feel they are relevant as they provide clarity as to the interpretation and 
application of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at the
time.
The FCAs website provides consumers with useful information on crowdfunding. This
includes a section on how consumers should protect themselves before investing and says
they should first understand what due diligence a platform preforms on investee companies.
Looking at Crowdcubes website, it makes it clear what due diligence it performs in its due
diligence charter. It explains:
The following due diligence is carried on each company before the pitch is open to
investment: []
-fact check all statements and claims made in the pitch text to ensure it is fair, clear 
and not misleading by obtaining, where possible, independent evidence.
Taking into account the above, its clear that Crowdcubes due diligence needed to be 
sufficient to satisfy itself on the essential information on which the promotion of Company A 
was based. Crowdcube also needed to check that the claims made in the pitch were 
authentic by way of a basic plausibility test. Further, Crowdcube needed to make Mr S aware 
of the extent of which it performed due diligence on Company A, let him know the outcome 
of this and for it to be sufficiently detailed to allow him to weigh up the risks and benefits of 
investing in Company A. 
Mr S hasnt provided much detail regarding why hes unhappy with the 2016 promotion 
beyond the due diligence performed by Crowdcube. His complaint seems to refer to 
information that has been highlighted from a previous decision made by one of our 
ombudsmans in relation to a 2017 promotion Crowdcube completed for Company A. I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr S participated in this investment round  and Crowdcube 
has also confirmed that Mr S only invested in the 2016 campaign. So, any information 
relating to the content of 2017 promotion, I dont find relevant to my considerations about this 
complaint. I note the investigators findings also appeared to refer to failings in the 2017 
promotion. But for the same reasons mentioned above, none of this is relevant to the 2016 
campaign that Mr S took part in. 
My decision will focus solely on the due diligence Crowdcube performed on the 2016 
promotion. The 2016 promotion made it clear that Company A was looking to raise funds for 
a new store in East and/or West London other exciting business improvements. It didnt 
specify a location for these new stores and didnt confirm if one or two stores would be 
opened. Crowdcube has provided the due diligence which it performed prior to approving the 
promotion. This included Company As business plan, full financials, and management notes 
giving details of the companys forecast, plans and assumptions for the proposed roll-out of 
its stores. Having reviewed this documentation, Im satisfied that Crowdcube performed 
sufficient due diligence on the detail contained within the pitch. Whilst the pitch went into a lot of detail regarding the overall aim of Company A and its business plan, considering it all 
as a whole, I think its clear that the plans were at an early stage. Im also aware that 
investors, such as Mr S were provided with updates in 2016 which explained that, having 
received the investment funds, Company A was starting its search for the new store to open. 
Ive not seen any evidence of Mr S raising any concerns regarding the store not already 
been secured prior to the fundraise and Ive not seen anything in the pitch which would 
suggest that this was the case at the time Mr S decided to invest. And in any case Company 
A did go on to open two new stores in 2017, which supports what it said in the 2016 
promotion. Whilst I appreciate Mr S is unhappy he has lost money from his investment, I 
dont think Crowdcube acted unfairly and ultimately, the stores opened which was the 
purpose of this fundraising round.
Mr S didnt agree with the provisional decision and provided further submissions for me to 
consider. In summary he said:
- He was concerned that the FCA consultation and guidance referred to may narrow 
the obligations on Crowdcube  despite them postdating his investment.   
- He doesnt recall seeing the due diligence charter - but regardless the principle in 
COBS 4.2.1R that financial promotions must be "fair, clear and not misleading" must 
have precedence here. 
- Crowdcubes website for the 2016 promotion included the following statement: "New 
site openings  we have put together a very realistic growth plan of 1 new store in 
2016, 3 new stores in 2017 and 4 per annum thereafter." He expected Crowdcube to 
have completed due diligence on this key promotional statement.
- It is Crowdcube's job to make sure the promotion was presented to him was "fair, 
clear and not misleading". He is allowed to be a passive investor and still benefit from 
the protection afforded by the FCA's rules. It's not appropriate, therefore, to draw a 
negative inference from the fact he was a passive investor.
- Although he didnt correspond with the business post investment, he was unhappy 
that the 2016 promotion did not meet his expectations in terms of the promised 
opening of new sites according to the advertised timeframe.
Crowdcube didnt provide any further submissions for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further comments made by Mr S, but Ive not found reason to change the 
outcome I set out in my provisional decision. While I understand his disappointment with 
what happened with his investment, I havent found that Crowdcube is at fault for this. 
I note the comments from Mr S about my reference to the FCA consultation and guidance. 
He questions whether this may narrow the obligations on Crowdcube  despite them 
postdating his investment.  While these sources were published after Mr Ss investment, I 
have explained the purpose of referring to them was because they provide clarity as to the 
interpretation and application of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to 
Crowdcube at the time Mr S invested. Id like to reassure Mr S it wasnt in any way to narrow 
the scope of Crowdcubes obligations or lessen them 
Mr S doesnt recall seeing the due diligence charter, so doesnt believe it has relevance to 
his complaint. He says the principle in COBS 4.2.1R that financial promotions must be "fair, 
clear and not misleading" must have precedence here. Whether a due diligence charter was 
made available to him or not, I agree that the FCA principles would take precedent when considering whether Crowdcubes obligations towards him were met when this investment 
was arranged. So, I have reached my decision with this in mind. 
Ive reviewed the further comments Mr S has made in relation to the information that was 
provided to him before investing. He says his understanding was that he was investing in a 
business that would be opening multiple new sites and that Crowdcube would have 
conducted due diligence to substantiate the statement that it would be "very realistic" for 
eight new stores to be opened in the next three years. He expected Crowdcube to have 
completed due diligence to the same degree of specificity as the promises about the new 
site in 2016 and the three new sites in 2017.
Ive again reviewed the 2016 pitch which Crowdcube presented to investors on its website. 
The purpose of the crowdfund for a new store is clear. As previously mentioned, it didnt 
specify a precise location and didnt confirm if one or two stores would be opened. And a 
new store was opened following the raise. There is information in the key sales/profitability 
drivers section about a growth plan to open more stores over the coming years  but I find 
this to relate to early stage plans. This is a key factor when thinking about the level of due 
diligence needed as this is determined by the statements within the pitch. As I explained in 
my provisional findings, Im satisfied that Crowdcube performed sufficient due diligence on 
the detail contained within the pitch. I dont agree with Mr Ss comments about there being 
promises made about the number of stores that would open in 2016 and 2017.  I think Mr Ss 
expectation of the required due diligence goes beyond the factual statements given in the 
pitch. So, it remains the position that I dont find that the pitch was misleading or there were 
failings in the due diligence. 
I also acknowledge the comments Mr S makes about being a passive investor and that this 
shouldnt be used as negative inference or remove the protection he receives from 
regulation. Id like to reassure him that this isnt the case. But ultimately these comments do 
not change my overall thinking on the outcome of his complaint. 
 
For the reason given in my provisional decision and those above, I dont find that Mr S has 
been treated unfairly in the circumstances, so I dont require Crowdcube to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman