DRN-2933285
The complaint
Ms S and Mr G are unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim made on 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
At the end of January 2020 Ms S booked and paid for a town house abroad for 14 nights 
from 5 April 2020, via an online provider (the accommodation). She separately purchased 
the flights for herself, Mr G and another family member - and a further three nights hotel 
accommodation via a tour operator. They were due to travel on 2 April 2020 and return to 
the UK on 21 April 2020 (the trip). 
Around 7 February 2020, Ms S took out a deluxe, single trip, worldwide travel insurance 
policy (including USA, Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean), underwritten by ERGO (the 
policy) to cover her familys trip abroad.
The trip was cancelled by the tour operator due to international travel restrictions as a result 
of Covid-19 pandemic. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel on 17 March 2020. That guidance remained in place at the time the trip was 
cancelled - and when Ms S, Mr G and another family member were due to travel abroad.
Ms S and Mr G werent able to recover the amount theyd paid for the accommodation as 
this was a non-refundable booking. So, they made a claim on the policy for that loss  
around £1,700 (the claim).
ERGO declined the claim because the reason which led to their trip being cancelled wasnt 
covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. It said the cancellation section of the 
policy listed specific reasons for which ERGO would provide cover, and the circumstances 
surrounding Ms S and Mr Gs claim didnt fall within those reasons. 
Ms S and Mr G didnt think that was fair, so complained to our Service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. Although, the trip was cancelled for a reason not listed in the 
cancellation section of the policy terms, there was also an exclusion in the policy limiting 
cover if theyd travelled against the advice of the FCO. So, our investigator didnt think it was 
fair and reasonable for ERGO to decline the claim for the reason it did. She concluded that it 
would be fair and reasonable for ERGO to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy. And she recommended ERGO to assess the claim under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
ERGO didnt agree. It said the specific insured perils for which a claim may be considered 
are clearly set out in the policy terms. As the circumstance giving rise to the claim made by 
Ms S and Mr G fell outside of those insured perils, it said it was unable to consider the claim. 
It also provided comments from its underwriter.
This complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
I uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by our investigator in her view 
dated 16 July 2021. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
The IPID provided to us by ERGO says at the top of page 1 that:
This Insurance Product Information Document is only intended to provide a 
summary of the main coverage and exclusions, and is not personalised to your 
specific individual needs in any way. Complete pre-contractual and contractual 
information on the product is provided in your policy documentation
Under the heading What is insured? on page 1 of the IPID, it says: 
Cancellation  up to £5,000
And, under the heading, Where am I covered? on page 2 of the IPID it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For 
further details, visit gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
The policy terms and conditions:
Page 1 of the policy terms and conditions says:
Please read this policy wording in full to understand what is and what is not covered 
and make sure that you and the insured persons are happy with the cover provided.
Pages 15 and 16 of the policy terms and conditions set out the policy cancellation terms. 
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, there is cover for:
All irrecoverable deposits and payments for unused travel and accommodation 
charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay before the trip departure date, 
for which you are necessarily required to cancel
We will provide this cover in the following necessary circumstances:
-Your death, accidental bodily injury or illness, that of a Close Relative, or friend 
with whom You have arranged to travel or stay, or a Business Associate, certified 
by the relevant General Practitioner
-You or any person with whom You have arranged to travel or stay being subject 
to compulsory quarantine or being summoned for Jury Service or as a witness in 
a Court of Law (except as an expert witness in a professional capacity)
-Your redundancy provided that You have been employed for 2 continuous years 
(and/or that You qualify for redundancy payment) with the same employer at the 
time of being made redundant and at the time of purchasing this Insurance, You 
had no reason to believe that You would be made redundant-You being unexpectedly required for emergency and unavoidable duty as a 
member of the armed forces including the Territorial Army and Reservists, police, 
fire, nursing, ambulance or coastguard services as certified by Your Senior 
Officer or Manager This cover IS subject to General Exclusion 5 and extends to 
holiday (or other additional cover purchased) cancellation or curtailment only
-Your private dwelling becoming uninhabitable following fire, storm or flood, or 
Your presence certified as being required by the Police following a burglary 
during the week immediately prior to Your departure
-Your pregnancy
Pages 14 and 15 of the policy set out the general exclusions which apply to the policy.  
And page 14, clause 6, says the policy doesnt cover: 
any claim arising out of or increased by your failure to follow advice, or 
recommendations from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and any advice 
against all or non-essential travel to country or part of it.
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion.
Was it unreasonable for ERGO to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for ERGO to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy in this particular case because: 
The trip was effectively cancelled because of the global impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic. Thats not something that is covered under the terms and conditions of the 
policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. However, taking into account the 
relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
If Ms S, Mr G and the other family member insured under the policy had travelled 
abroad, they wouldnt have followed FCO advice. And because of the FCO exclusion 
they wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the 
terms and conditions of the policy, changes in FCO guidance also arent covered by 
the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Ms S and Mr G in this case. 
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about 
the policy in a way thats easy to understand. I dont think the FCO exclusion is 
prominent in the IPID, and cancellation claims due to FCO advice against all but 
essential travel arent included in the What is not insured section of the IPID. The 
IPID only contains the general exclusion that policyholders wont be covered if they 
travel against FCO advice. 
Ms S and Mr G wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order 
to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that 
this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. 
Ms S and Mr G wouldve needed to go further into the detail of the policy wording to 
establish whether they were able to claim if they had to cancel their trip because of 
changes to FCO guidance after theyd bought their policy. And even when they 
reached pages 15 and 16 of the policys terms and conditions - which sets out the 
available cover if their trip is cancelled  a claim arising from a change in FCO advice 
isnt specifically listed as an exclusion. Instead, this section is silent on whether this is 
something which is covered under the cancellation section of the policy. The section of the policy explaining what will be covered if theyre unable to travel, on 
page 15, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt presented in the same place 
or specifically mentioned in the cancellation exclusion  although the general 
exclusions are referred to. But the general exclusions are earlier in the policy 
document at pages 14 and 15. And the consumer would need to cross refer these 
sections of the policy to comprehend how these terms all interrelated to one another, 
and to understand the effect of the FCO exclusion. Whats more confusing in this 
particular case is the cancellation section refers to the general exclusions being at 
pages 13 to14 of the policy document, but theyre at pages 14 and 15.
Overall, I dont think it would be obvious to a consumer that there would be no cover 
under the policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their destination after they 
purchased their policy. And even with a cooling-off period, I think a consumer might 
not be able to easily understand the full effect of the policy. I think the way the 
cancellation section of cover and the FCO exclusion under the other sections of the 
policy are presented separately means their combined effect isnt clear in this case. 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Ms S and 
Mr G and ERGO, shifting the rights and obligations under the policy significantly in 
ERGOs favour. I think its unlikely they wouldve purchased the policy if Ms S and Mr 
G realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCO guidance changed 
after theyd bought the policy. 
When making this finding, I accept that its not practical for the terms and conditions of a 
policy  or an IPID  to list every possible insured peril and/or every possible exclusion. Ive 
also considered that its common for the cancellation section of travel insurance policies to 
list the specific insured perils that are covered. However, the issue Im considering in this 
case is whether the specific exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from a 
change in FCO travel advice was clearly sign-posted to Ms S and Mr G in this particular 
case based on the policy documentation. And, for the reasons set out above, I dont think it 
was. 
Ive also taken into account ERGOs point that if someone should be covered when their 
holiday is cancelled due to a reason listed as a general exclusion then theres a suggestion 
that ERGO should be covering an insured person if their holiday was cancelled as a result of 
another general exclusion. I dont agree that the reasons for me upholding this complaint do 
suggest that. Ive considered the individual merits of this complaint based on the reason put 
forward by ERGO to decline the claim. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think 
ERGO has fairly and reasonably declined the claim on the basis that, together with the 
content and format of the IPID, the reason why the trip was cancelled wasnt listed as a 
specific insured peril under the cancellation section of the policy. Thats based on the 
circumstances of this particular case. 
In summary, Im satisfied the combined effect of the policy terms and IPID in this case 
means it wasnt made reasonably clear or obvious to a reasonable policyholder that theyd 
have no cover under the policy if they travelled against FCO advice. And nor was it made 
reasonably clear that theres no cover in place if Ms S and Mr Gs travel plans were 
cancelled on the basis of FCO advice changing in between buying the policy and their 
intended departure date, as is what happened here.
 
Putting things right
I direct ERGO to assess the claim as if it is covered as an insured peril under the 
cancellation section the policy, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  
including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the policy, and the applicable excess. My final decision
I uphold Ms S and Mr Gs complaint. I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman