DRN-3247037
The complaint
Mr S complains about the poor service he got from Lloyds Bank PLC when he requested 
that it waive or discount the outstanding balance on his account and its failure to provide him 
with a redemption figure.
What happened
Mr S has a capital repayment mortgage which he took out in 2008 for 16 years for £50,000 
and an arrangement fee of £1,250. Mr S paid his contractual monthly payment (CMP) 
every month.
In February 2021 Mr S wrote to the bank to say that he was a vulnerable person and was in 
isolation and asked the bank to waive or discount his remaining payments. The bank says 
that it wrote back the following that day refusing that request although Mr S didnt receive 
that reply. At the end of February Mr S requested a redemption figure but sent the request to 
a no reply email at the bank which the bank didnt receive and didnt reply to it.
As Mr S hadnt heard from the bank, he contacted it in May for a redemption figure. Mr S 
was given the remaining term of the mortgage rather than the outstanding balance. Mr S 
says he was given different figures, but the bank says that happens as the balance changes 
day to day.
The bank accepted that it hadnt responded to one of the call backs requested and offered 
compensation of £100. Our investigator thought this was fair compensation and didnt 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the correspondence from Mr S and note that he is sadly is suffering from an illness 
which must be very debilitating, and Id like to express my sympathy to him. 
During the course of this complaint, Lloyds has provided to us the annual mortgage 
statements from 2015 which show the monthly payments being paid every month and no 
additional charges being added to the account. Mr S has made his payments on time and 
has been able to reduce the outstanding balance on the mortgage significantly over the 
period.
Mr Ss recent interactions with the bank began in February last year when he asked the bank 
to waive or discount the remaining balance on the mortgage. Mr S has been isolating during 
lockdown and felt himself under a degree of mental pressure which he feels the bank could 
have eased by doing that. The bank wasnt agreeable. It had a mortgage contract with Mr S 
which it felt Mr S should stick to. I note at the time Mr S was still making the monthly 
payments regularly and on time so there was no indication that the mortgage was 
unaffordable to him. Indeed, he was also thinking of paying off the mortgage from money 
available to him, so I cant say that Lloyds was acting unfairly by refusing that request.
Mr S then asked for a redemption statement. Lloyds has explained why it didnt receive that 
request and so didnt respond as the request went to a no reply email address at the bank 
which it didnt receive. That would be an understandable reason for not replying. In any case 
I would have thought that if Mr S was anxious to pay off his balance at that time and hadnt 
got a reply, he could have followed this up and got one. I dont consider that I can 
reasonably require Lloyds to forego the interest charged on this account from February 
because Mr S didnt get the mortgage redemption figure that he requested at that time.
Mr S complains that he got different figures for his outstanding balance with the bank. Given 
that the balance changes day to day that wouldnt be unusual. But Ive nothing to indicate 
that Mr S was given the wrong balance. In any case as I say Mr S had annual mortgage 
statements showing him how the mortgage balance was coming down through the CMPs 
which were reducing both the capital and the interest that was charged each month. I note in 
his email of 11 January 20122 that he feels bank has been evasive and that hes overpaid 
but theres no evidence of that.
Mr S sent us his annual statement for 2021 showing the outstanding balance due at the end 
of December 2021.I note that this differs from the redemption figure which our investigator 
passed on to him which showed a higher figure. Our investigator asked for a redemption 
figure and Lloyds commissioned one on the 15 December for the end of December. But Mr 
S made a further payment on the 31 December which is reflected in his annual statement 
but would not have been on the redemption figure which was asked for before that payment 
was made. Im content that the annual statement shows the correct figure of the mortgage 
balance as of the 31 December 2021, but that figure will of course have changed since then. 
My view of this complaint is that Lloyds has maintained proper accounts of this mortgage 
and not overcharged Mr S. But these accounts ae always changing and Mr S will have got 
different figures at different times. I dont find Lloyds service to be unreasonable but that 
there were elements of poor service and I believe that the amount afforded by Lloyds is 
appropriate compensation for that. So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman