DRN-4524568
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, didnt treat her 
fairly when she was experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
Mrs L had a credit card account with Tesco. Following a change in circumstances she asked 
to repay the debt through a reduced settlement. She complains Tesco didnt do enough to 
help her with this, and that its action led to the account defaulting when it shouldnt have. 
Tesco didnt agree it had done anything significantly wrong, so Mrs L asked our Service for 
an independent review. Our Investigator thought that Mrs Ls complaint had merit and 
recommended it be upheld. In summary, he thought Tesco should remove the default and 
pay some compensation.
Mrs L accepted the Investigators recommendation. Tesco didnt. It remained of the view it 
had treated Mrs L fairly and asked for the complaint to be considered further. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. I enquired with 
Tesco about whether it wanted to do something different here for Mrs L, given her difficult 
personal circumstances, however it declined to do so. I then went on to make a formal 
determination on the matter.
I issued a provisional decision where I explained I couldnt look at part of the complaint Mrs L 
raised because it had been raised too late under the rules I must follow. In relation to the 
part of the complaint I could look into, I didnt find that Tesco had treated Mrs L unfairly. In 
summary, I acknowledged there had been a misunderstanding about Mrs Ls finances that 
likely led to her settlement offer being declined. However, I noted Tesco was unable to 
contact Mrs L for some time following this despite reaching out. So, I didnt think it had an 
opportunity to clarify matters with Mrs L and, therefore, it wasnt unreasonable to decline her 
offer overall.
I also noted that Mrs L was unhappy that Tesco wouldnt allow her to complete a balance 
transfer on the account for the outstanding amount. However, as the account was closed, I 
didnt think it was unreasonable that Tesco said this wasnt possible.
Tesco didnt respond to the provisional decision, or this services reminder to it sent 
afterwards, by the deadline set. Mrs L responded to say she disagreed with the decision. In 
summary, she repeated some of her previous points and also outlined that Tescos only 
option to resolve matters was to apply a default, when she had clearly reached out to avoid 
that. Mrs L also said this advice led to her being in more debt, and this could have been 
avoided had Tesco sympathised with her difficult situation. Mrs L said she wasnt thinking 
clearly at the time, otherwise she would have questioned Tescos advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. Ive 
explained my reasoning below. But before I do so, I want to say that I have taken on board 
all of the additional comments raised in response to the provisional decision.
I want to start by saying this has clearly been an incredibly difficult time for Mrs L and her 
partner, and I was very sorry to hear about all that theyve been through. I must, however, 
approach this matter objectively. And having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mrs L had a contractual relationship with Tesco. It would provide credit, up to a certain limit, 
and would expect repayment of the credit that Mrs L used plus interest. In return for this 
facility, Mrs L would pay said interest, and make at least minimum monthly repayments. 
Following a change in Mrs Ls circumstances she asked Tesco to agree to something 
different  she would only pay back about half of what she owed it. 
Tesco was open to considering a partial settlement of what Mrs L owed. But it said it would 
only do so once the account had been closed as defaulted. Mrs L doesnt think this was fair. 
Mrs L complained about this and received a final response in March 2020. I dont have the 
power to consider this complaint because it wasnt referred to our service within six months 
of the final response being issued  see DISP 2.8.2(R).
Following this, Mrs L continued to seek a partial settlement with Tesco and ultimately, in line 
with the information set out in the final response letter, the account was defaulted. This was 
because Mrs L felt she needed to stop making repayments and allow the account to default 
so that her partial settlement offer could be considered. And Tesco did then go on to 
consider her offer. 
Upon considering the offer from Mrs L, Tesco then declined it. It seems that this was more 
likely than not in part due to a misunderstanding about Mrs Ls finances, which was certainly 
unfortunate. That being said, Ive considered that Tescos contact notes suggest it tried to 
contact Mrs L several times in the months that followed this period but was unable to discuss 
matters with her. So, whilst Tesco may have made a mistake here, given that it didnt have a 
chance to clarify matters with Mrs L, I think it was reasonable for it not to accept her offer.
Tescos notes suggest that it did have the opportunity to speak with Mrs L in 
December 2020. It agreed to place a 30-day hold on the account and arranged to check how 
Mrs L was doing in the new year. As I understand it, Tesco also asked Mrs L to provide 
updated income and expenditure information, however I cant see that this was provided. So, 
Im not persuaded that Tesco had the opportunity to recognise the error here. I therefore 
think it was reasonable for it not to accept her offer here either. 
The contact notes suggest several more months passed until 2022 when Mrs L asked to 
complete a balance transfer for the outstanding amount. Tesco said this wasnt possible due 
to the fact that the account was closed. Overall, I dont consider this to be unreasonable and 
can understand why the action couldnt be processed on an account that had been 
terminated some time ago.
Therefore, whilst I certainly empathise with Mrs Ls situation, overall, I dont think that Tesco 
has treated her unfairly here. I note it has recently agreed to accept a reduced settlement of 
£2,000 towards the debt  Ill leave this matter to the parties to discuss further between 
them. But, overall, I dont find that Tesco has treated Mrs L unfairly here. It follows that I 
dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman