DRN-2335399
The complaint
Ms B and Mr Y complain that British Gas Services Limited failed to attend their call out within 
a reasonable time. 
What happened
Ms B and Mr Y had a Home Care policy with British Gas. In December 2019 they 
experienced a problem with their boiler which meant they had no central heating. They 
called British Gas and asked for someone to attend under the call out cover in their policy.
British Gas advised that due to high demand for their engineers, the first available 
appointment was in ten days. However it said that due to this, Ms B and Mr Y could arrange 
a local engineer to attend and British Gas would reimburse any costs covered under the 
policy.
Ms B and Mr Y didnt think this was fair. They said that the policy is sold to suggest that an 
engineer will attend a call out within a reasonable time. And they didnt think it was fair for 
them to be without heating for 10 days. They made a complaint.
British Gas didnt uphold their complaint. It said that during December there was high 
demand for its engineers, and it had to prioritise its most vulnerable customers and those 
without hot water. However it recognised the inconvenience caused and offered £60 and a 
gesture of goodwill to make up for this.
Ms B and Mr Y didnt think this was fair as they said British Gas hadnt fulfilled its 
requirements under the policy so should refund their annual fee. They brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that it was reasonable for British Gas to prioritise its most vulnerable customers and he 
was satisfied that it had offered an alternative option so they could get a visit earlier. So he 
didnt think it was fair to ask British Gas to refund the premiums paid.
Ms B and Mr Y didnt agree. They said that they felt the policy had been mis-sold as they 
expected call outs to be fulfilled within a more reasonable time scale. They asked for their 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B and Mr Y feel that British Gas hasnt fulfilled the service they believed they were 
getting when they brought the policy with it. So I have considered whether British Gas has 
acted fairly and reasonably when handling their call out request.
I can see that Ms B and Mr Y have a policy that includes call outs for repairs to their boiler. It 
says in the policy terms:
Well carry out any repair or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit
Ms B and Mr Y have said that they dont think ten days is a reasonable time and is much 
longer than they were led to believe when they took out the policy.
British Gas has said that in December 2019 it was experiencing increased demand for call 
outs so it didnt have an engineer available. Although it wasnt at the time of heavy snow or a 
storm, it was during winter months, so at a time when more people are using their central 
heating. So I can understand there may have been increased demand.
Further it said that because of this, it had to prioritise its most vulnerable customers, or those 
in the greatest need. Where there is limited resource, I think this is a fair approach. Also, 
under the terms and conditions British Gas says that where there are circumstances that are 
out of its control that mean it isnt possible to visit quickly, it will provide a time when it can. 
And this is what it did here. So I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
I can also see from the notes provided that British Gas checked with Ms B whether she was 
vulnerable and if there were any other vulnerable household members. She confirmed there 
were not. It also assessed the impact of the problem and could see that the hot water was 
still working and there was fire heating in one of the rooms. 
So although I can understand it would be inconvenient to be without heating for ten days, I 
think it was fair for British Gas to prioritise cases where there were vulnerable household 
members or those who didnt have hot water. 
Further, British Gas provided an alternative to try and ensure Ms B and Mr Y didnt have to 
wait to get their boiler fixed. It said they could arrange a visit from a local engineer, and it 
would reimburse costs incurred that are covered by the policy. So this gave them the 
opportunity to get a repair sooner than ten days at no additional cost to them.
Ms B and Mr Y have said that this would involve sourcing their own engineer and they have 
the policy with British Gas in order to avoid this. While I appreciate this isnt the service they 
pay for as part of their policy, British Gas were offering this as an alternative as it wasnt able 
to fulfil the call out straight away. And I think as an alternative in a time of increased demand, 
this is a fair offer.
I have considered Ms B and Mr Ys request for a refund of their premiums for the year as 
they havent received the service they paid for, but I dont think this would be fair. Although I 
agree ten days is a long time to wait for a repair, British Gas has been able to provide the 
service Ms B and Mr Y paid for, just not straight away. It also provided am alternative option 
that may have allowed them to get a fix sooner.
Further the policy Ms B and Mr Y have with British Gas provides more than just a call out 
service. For example, it includes an annual service. So they had the potential benefit of all 
services for the period of the policy.So although I understand Ms B and Mr Y were disappointed that British Gas werent able to 
provide the same level of service it usually would, it has acted in line with the terms of the 
policy. So I dont agree that British Gas has treated Ms B and Mr Y unfairly. 
British Gas has offered £60 as a good will gesture to recognise the inconvenience they have 
suffered, and I think thats fair in the circumstances. So I wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require British Gas Services Limited to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman