DRN-3045113
The complaint
X is complaining that Close Brothers Limited is chasing him for an amount it says he owes 
on his running account credit agreement.
What happened
In May 2020 X took out a car insurance policy through a broker  who I shall refer to as P. 
The insurer required X to pay an annual premium and he needed to pay this at the start of 
the policy. X wanted to pay for the policy through monthly instalments. To enable him to do 
so, he took out a finance agreement through Close Brothers. Close Brothers paid the annual 
premium on Xs behalf and X agreed in return to repay this in line with the terms of the 
finance agreement. 
In October 2020 the insurer charged an additional premium which X wasnt willing to pay so 
he cancelled the insurance policy. P then contacted Close Brothers to cancel the linked 
finance agreement. Following this Close Brothers contacted X to say he still owed £376.76.
X didnt think it was fair he was still being asked to pay the full annual premium, even though 
hed cancelled early. He also didnt think Close Brothers could require him to pay anything 
because he didnt sign the credit agreement. So he thinks the agreement is null and void.
Close Brothers didnt uphold Xs complaint. It said X would have consented to taking out the 
credit agreement as part of the online application. And it said it didnt require consumers to 
sign the credit agreement before it provided the finance. It maintained it was entitled to 
chase X for the outstanding balance on the finance agreement.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said, not signing the credit agreement 
doesnt render it null and void. She said shed looked at whether X had derived any benefit 
from the contract and she was satisfied he had done so in being able to pay the policy 
through monthly instalments. And she was satisfied it was fair for Close Brothers to require X 
to pay what it says he owes.
X didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said the finance agreement specifically said 
that it was to be considered that he wasnt happy to proceed with the agreement if he didnt 
sign it. So he maintained this meant the agreement wasnt enforceable against him as it 
should be considered null and void.
As X didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first state that Im only looking at the actions of Close Brothers in this decision. X 
has also complained about P and this is being considered in a separate complaint  namely 
in regards to whether P made it clear to X that he was taking out a credit agreement to pay 
for the annual premium. So I havent commented on anything P did or didnt do in this 
decision.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Im also conscious Ive summarised Xs complaint in less detail than hes presented. 
However, I assure both parties Ive read and considered everything that theyve provided. 
Ive not commented on each and every point thats been raised. I dont mean any 
discourtesy by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. In this decision, 
Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points X has raised.
X says that the agreement should be considered null and void as he didnt sign it. But I dont 
agree. 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) says that a regulated credit agreement isnt 
properly executed if the borrower doesnt sign it. And it further sets out that an 
improperly-executed regulated agreement is enforceable against the debtor or hirer on an 
order of the court only. However, not signing the agreement doesnt render it null and 
void. Further to this Im conscious S127 CCA also sets out that where a creditor is looking 
to enforce a contract:
 the court shall dismiss the application if, but only if, it considers it just to do so having 
regard to (i) the prejudice caused by any person by the contravention in question, and the 
degree of culpability for it  
Im conscious that the courts have considered this issue previously and its important to note 
that enforcement as referred to in the CCA only relates to specific circumstances. Courts 
have ruled that simply requiring a borrower to pay what they owe under the terms of the 
contract isnt enforcement in the required sense. Im ultimately not persuaded Close 
Brothers has looked to enforce the agreement in the strictest sense at this moment in time.
However, Ive also thought about what the court has previously decided regarding this issue. 
Courts have concluded that not signing the credit agreement doesnt render it null and void  
which is in line with the wording of the CCA. But Ive also thought about whether Close 
Brothers can rely on the terms of the contract to charge the fees and charges it has done  
namely the interest. 
When considering the wording of S127 CCA and previous court rulings, I think the crux of 
this matter is whether X has been prejudiced by Close Brothers not insisting on him signing 
the credit agreement. In considering this, Ive thought about whether X has benefited from 
the contract.
It seems X was keen to pay for the insurance premium in monthly instalments. Its standard 
industry practice that, to pay for an insurance policy in monthly instalments, consumers take 
out a finance agreement. Its unlikely X would have been able to arrange a monthly payment 
programme through other means. Taking out the finance agreement through Close Brothers 
has enabled him to pay the policy in monthly instalments  the alternative would have been 
hed have had to pay the premium in full upfront. So I think he has had a benefit from the 
finance agreement and Ive not seen anything to show hes lost out because he didnt sign it 
 i.e. I think hed still be in the same position hed be in now if he had signed it. 
Ive also thought about what Close Brothers could have done and what the situation would 
be if it had insisted X signed the credit agreement  as it should have done. If X had said he 
wasnt willing to sign the agreement, its likely Close Brothers would have terminated the 
agreement. Had it done so, X would have had to pay the full annual premium at that point. As he was keen to pay the insurance policy in monthly instalments, I dont think hes lost out 
by the finance agreement continuing. And I think its fair for Close Brothers to rely on the 
terms of the contract in charging what it has.
I also note X is also unhappy with the amount Close Brothers is asking him to pay. He thinks 
its wrong that hes being asked to pay the full annual premium. As I said above, Close 
Brothers paid the annual premium on Xs behalf when he took out the insurance policy. The 
balance on the finance agreement at the start was around £810. Xs monthly payments went 
towards reducing the balance on the finance agreement. At the point the finance agreement 
was cancelled, there was a remaining balance of £469.54. I understand Close Brothers 
received a refund of £92.78 from P which was used to reduce the outstanding balance, 
leaving an amount due of £376.76. Im satisfied Close Brothers has calculated the amount 
payable under the terms of the finance agreement fairly and its entitled to require X to pay 
this under the terms of the finance agreement.
I think the key issue in this matter is that X is unhappy with the amount the insurer has 
refunded off the annual premium and the amount hes been charged to cancel the insurance 
policy. But Close Brothers isnt responsible for that. And, as I said, this service has 
considered the complaint against P under a separate reference number.
Ultimately, having taken everything into consideration, I dont think X has lost out because of 
anything Close Brothers may have done wrong. And I dont think its acting unfairly in saying 
X owes what it says he does.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman