DRN-4267115
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to warn her that her account had 
gone into unarranged overdraft due to her son making unauthorised payments from his 
tablet. She is unhappy that this has had a negative impact on her credit file. 
What happened
Mrs C held a bank account with Lloyds. Although the account didnt come with an arranged 
overdraft facility the terms and conditions of the account say that:
If you dont have enough money in your account or available arranged overdraft to make a 
payment, we may either let you borrow through an unarranged overdraft or refuse to make 
the payment. Missing payments and using an unarranged overdraft can damage your credit 
score.
 
In late 2022 Mrs Cs son made several unauthorised payments from his tablet which put Mrs 
Cs account in unarranged overdraft on 3 January 2023. Lloyds records show that it sent Mrs 
C a text message about this on the same day advising she had payments due to debit her 
account which may take her into unarranged overdraft and to please pay cleared funds in for 
these payments. 
Lloyds wrote to Mrs C on 28 January advising about the position of the account and that a 
payment of £43.72 needed to be made as soon as possible to bring the account out of 
unarranged overdraft. The letter also advised that her credit score could be affected.
As no payment was received by 8 February Lloyds reported this to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs). 
Mrs C says she didnt realise her account was in unarranged overdraft until finding out her 
credit file had been updated to show she had missed payments.
Mrs C complained to Lloyds that it failed to notify her about going into unarranged overdraft 
and that it would be making a report to the CRAs. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. It says it had to make a report to the CRAs as it is 
obliged to give a true reflection of how the account is managed  and in Mrs Cs case her 
account was in unarranged overdraft for 35 consecutive days. Lloyds did however agree that 
the service she received when she made her complaint wasnt good enough and offered her 
£20 for this failing. 
Mrs C was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. She says she 
never received the letter from Lloyds notifying her about the status of the account and says 
Lloyds should never have allowed the payments from her son to put her account into 
unarranged overdraft. She believes it was unfair to report this on her credit file which has 
resulted in her being unable to transfer her credit card to a more favourable one. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Cs concerns but didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. From what theyd seen Lloyds had attempted to notify Mrs C about the 
status of her account and what she needed to do and as Mrs C had failed to respond 
reported this on her credit file.
Mrs C disagreed, she doesnt believe it fair that her credit history has been damaged 
because her young son made unauthorised payments from her account. She says this 
account is a secondary account and not checked very often so didnt notice it was in 
unarranged overdraft and she never received the letter from Lloyds about this. Mrs C has 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mrs C has experienced and see if Lloyds has done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs C unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mrs C 
back in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mrs Cs main complaint point is that she didnt know she was in unarranged overdraft and 
that it is unfair that this has impacted her credit file. She says Lloyds failed to notify her about 
this and only found out when her credit file was updated. 
Firstly, as outlined above the terms and conditions of the account do say if there are 
insufficient funds in the account to cover payments than Lloyds may agree an unarranged 
overdraft and that this can negatively impact your credit file. 
Allowing a customer to go into unarranged overdraft is one way to ensure that important 
payments and direct debits arent missed - such as insurance renewals  and is allowed 
under the terms and conditions of the account. Lloyds werent to know that the payments 
from her sons tablet werent made by or authorised by her, so I dont think it was unfair that 
Lloyds allowed the payments to go through. 
Lloyds records show it sent Mrs C a text warning her that a direct debit due to leave her 
account could take her account into unarranged overdraft should she not have cleared funds 
in the account to meet these payments. This alone shouldve been enough to prompt Mrs C 
to check her account. Unfortunately, this didnt happen and Mrs C went into unarranged 
overdraft and remained this way for 35 days. 
I accept that Mrs C may well have not received the text alert, but this is not due to an error 
on Lloydss behalf. And even without receiving the text message as Im sure Mrs C is aware 
having a bank account comes with responsibilities  one of which is ensuring you have 
enough money in your account to meet the payments you wish to make. Mrs C was 
registered for online banking so I would expect that she would be reviewing her statements 
regularly. 
And I dont think that Lloyds made a mistake when it reported the status of her account being 
in unauthorised overdraft on her credit file as it notified Mrs C this could happen if her 
account wasnt brought up to date and this was also allowed under the terms and conditions 
of the account. Mrs C says that she never received Lloyds letter about this. But I can see the 
letter was correctly addressed to her and Ive not been made aware of any postal issues at 
the time  indeed most post is delivered correctly. So again I cant say Lloyds made a 
mistake or treated Mrs C unfairly.I understand that Mrs C is concerned about the impact this has had on her credit file, but 
Lloyds has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
CRAs it subscribes to is factually accurate  and I think its reasonable to assume if you let 
your account go into unarranged overdraft and you do nothing about it that this will be 
reflected on your credit file. 
It might assist Mrs C to know that she can place a Notice of Correction on her credit record. 
The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any explanatory 
circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending decisions. If she wishes to do this, she should contact the CRAs directly. 
So I dont think Lloyds have done anything wrong or treated Mrs C unfairly. It acted within 
the terms and conditions of the account and alerted Mrs C to the status of her account when 
it went into unarranged overdraft.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman