DRN-3111049
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Mr H says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The insurance gave Mr H protection against accident, sickness and unemployment and he 
paid a monthly amount for the cover.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should not be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 15 September 2021, a copy 
of which is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional 
decision I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr Hs complaint that the 
policy was miss-sold. I did think the non-disclosure of commission and profit share meant 
that Capital One should pay Mr H an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost, if it hadnt already done so.  
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 15 October 2021. Mr H has acknowledged receiving the decision 
and has no further submissions he wished to make. At the time of writing Capital One has 
not responded but has had sufficient time to do so had they wished to. So, I am proceeding 
to my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
In my provisional decision I explained that,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered 
all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; a
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Hs 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered 
the issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Capital One should have 
disclosed the commission it received - but that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the 
cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below.
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Capital One made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because to get the cover Mr H had to tick a box for it on 
the application form for his credit. The box is ticked on the copy of the form Capital 
One has provided from the sale. And Mr H signed that form which suggests his 
agreement to its contents. Mr H also signed his signature for the cover, and this was 
separate to his signature for the credit.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H - so it didnt have to check that the 
PPI was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr H enough clear and 
timely information so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr H. Mr H was eligible 
for the benefits of the cover and it would have paid out in addition to any sick pay he 
may have received. And Mr H told us he had no other means he could have relied on  
so I think the policy could have been useful to Mr H. And although Mr H says he had a 
medical condition many years before the policy was taken out, I dont think better 
information about the existing medical exclusion wouldve caused him to change his 
mind about taking out the policy. I say this because the condition occurred in 1979, 
some 30 years before the sale. And Mr H has provided no detailed testimony about the 
condition and no testimony that it caused him ongoing issues or that it cost him any 
time off work in the intervening years before the sale. It also looks like it was affordable 
 so it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because 
of this I dont think Mr H would have declined the cover had Capital One done anything 
more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back or mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So, I think he 
would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr H would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.Mr Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Capital One should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont intend 
to uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint.
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, 
including whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to 
remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Capital One should have disclosed the commission it 
received and that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for 
the unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Capital One didnt tell Mr H about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So, taking into account:
-The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non- disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Capital One and Mr H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Capital One didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
I dont think Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H because 
it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to 
remedy the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr H should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Capital One failed to tell Mr H about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr H wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and he should 
receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether 
the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had 
the commission been disclosed;
-A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy 
the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow 
that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or 
conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the 
commission been disclosed; and
-The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy 
caused by it should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr H in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Capital One not disclosing the high 
level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account:
-The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of 
commission;
-refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr Hs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Capital Ones failure to disclose the level of commission 
for the reasons Ive given above.I think it was fair for Capital One to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Mr H paid for his PPI policy.
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr H 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if Capital One had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So, I consider that Capital Ones payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
If Capital One has already paid Mr H compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should 
do anything further.
My provisional decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I 
have set out above, I dont intend to uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Hs complaint or 
make any award in favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Capital One (Europe) plc should pay Mr H an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) if it hasnt already done so. If Capital One (Europe) plc has already paid 
compensation on this basis, I do not consider that Capital One (Europe) plc should do 
anything more.
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence of any 
further points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold the mis-
sale element of Mr Hs complaint or make any award in favour of them for this part of the 
complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Capital One (Europe) plc 
should pay Mr H an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 
50% of the policy cost, if it hasnt already done so.  If Capital One (Europe) plc has already 
paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that Capital One (Europe) plc should do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman