DRN-4492183
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that Unum Ltd (Unum) unfairly declined a 
claim under its Group Life Policy. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill provide a 
brief overview of some of the key events here. 
F took out a Group Life Policy with Unum in June 2019. The cover renewed annually. During 
the period of the June 2022 policy cover, F made a claim with Unum following the 
unfortunate death of its employee. 
Unum declined the claim. Although the member had been on the policy since 2019, at the 
time of his death he had already reached the cover cease age (70) and therefore Unum said 
there was no cover under the policy.  
F didnt agree with Unums reasoning. In summary, it said the policy wasnt clear and it was 
misleading. F said in line with how the policy was worded, Unum should provide cover until 
the age of 71 and therefore they should meet the claim in question. 
Our investigator considered Fs complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. He 
thought that based on the information in the insurance schedule, it was reasonable for F to 
think that the policy provided cover for a member at the age of 70 as the entry age went up 
to 70. He said that given Unum drafted the policy in the way they did, the reading of the age 
most favourable to the complainant should be used and therefore he said Unum should 
reconsider Fs claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Unum didnt agree with our investigator and therefore the complaint was referred to me to 
consider. 
In my provisional decision I said 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the passing of Fs employee. I know this will be very 
disappointing for F, but Im not intending to uphold this complaint, Ill explain why.
Both parties have provided detailed submissions to support their position. I want to assure 
them Ive read and carefully considered everything theyve said, but I wont comment on 
everything. 
The issue for me to decide in this instance is whether or not it is fair and reasonable for
Unum to decline Fs claim on the basis they have set out in their final response to Fs 
complaint. 
The insurance schedule included the following eligibility for cover:
Entry ages
Category 1 18 to 70
Cover cease age
Category 1 70 years 
Policy opens to newly eligible employees
Category 1      Daily
The schedule also stated that the cover is based upon terms set out in Unums user guide.
The relevant user guide stated the following: 
2. When will cover for a member end?
Cover for a member will end in the circumstances shown in the general terms.
General terms
Cover for a member ending
Cover for a member will end when they:
Reach the cease age
Unum said that at the time of the members death, he had reached the age of 70 (the cover 
cease age) and therefore the cover had ceased midterm on his 70th birthday. As the event 
being claimed for was after the member had reached the cover cease age, there was no 
cover in place. 
F disputes Unums interpretation of how it defines eligibility in terms of age.
F says the policy terms are unclear and misleading. It maintains that because the entry age 
is stated as 18-70, a fair reading of the policy terms would be that anyone under the age of 
71 is eligible. It argues that the terms do not state under the age of 70 and therefore if a 
member is 70 years old at the time of passing, the claim should be considered.
Unum explained that the entry age didnt impact the outcome of this claim because the 
member had been on cover since age 66. The claim decline was based on the cover cease 
age. In any event, Unum explained that if the entry age was set at 18-69 it wouldnt be able 
to cover anyone a day over 69 and therefore its set at 70 but cover ceases as soon as the 
person turns 70. I think Unums explanation on this is fair and reasonable. It also reflects 
what is said in the policy wording.  
F suggested that because the member turned 70 during a policy term, the cover should have 
ceased at the renewal following their 70th birthday and not midterm. Im not persuaded that 
Unum has acted incorrectly by ceasing cover midterm. I say this because the cover allows 
new members to join daily and therefore its reasonable that cover can also cease in the 
same way. In any event, the policy states the cover ceases when a member reaches the 
cease age.  I have considered the policy terms very carefully and Im satisfied that the policy is clear in 
stating that there is no cover when a member reaches the cover cease age. The cover 
cease age chosen by F when taking out the policy was 70 and therefore when a member 
reaches this age, there is no cover.  
Furthermore, as F was involved in choosing the cover cease age, I think it ought to have 
known that the cover would end when reaching that age. Im not persuaded that F has been 
misled by Unum on this or that Unum have acted incorrectly. 
Having considered everything very carefully, I think that Unum have acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining Fs claim in line with the policy terms. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to F, but I simply cant ask Unum to take any further action in this matter.   
Responses to my provisional decision 
Unum responded to say that they accepted the provisional decision.
F responded to say that it was disappointed with the provisional decision. 
In summary F said that the provisional decision didnt address that Unums wording was 
unclear and therefore unfair and potentially misleading. F said that it didnt say the cover 
should be in place until the age of 71, but that Unum was unclear the cover would cease on 
the members 70th birthday and therefore it was entitled to think the cover would be in place 
until the next renewal date. F said that it would have sought alternative cover at the renewal 
after cover ceasing. 
F maintained that the entry age was misleading and it also said that it would have been 
reasonable for F to expect that after entering a member for annual cover, Unum would notify 
F if the member was no longer eligible. F referred to Consumer Duty and said that in line 
with this Unum should inform its client of the difference in cover to every previous year. 
F also said that it didnt receive a schedule or any details regarding the calculation of the 
payment. It didnt agree that because it chose the cover cease to be 70 that it ought to have 
known the cover would cease when the member turned 70 rather than at the next renewal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Suitability and policy information  
F raised concerns about the suitability of the product and also that it did not receive the 
policy schedule or an explanation of the how the premiums were calculated. I note the policy 
was taken out through an Independent Financial Advisor (IFA). The IFA would be 
responsible for the advice on suitability as well as providing information and advice on how 
the product operates. Any concerns in relation to this would need to be raised separately 
with the IFA. 
Unum has explained that the policy schedule is issued through the IFA when the schedule 
requires updating. As no alternations were made in 2022 and 2023, the schedule did not 
require updating and therefore the schedule from 2021 would apply until any updates to the 
policy are made. In any event, Unum did continue issuing yearly accounts to the IFA. 
Unum also explained that the cost of the policy is based on membership data at renewal. As membership fluctuates during a policy year for example with members going on or coming 
off the policy, adjustments are made at renewal, taking into consideration any changes in the 
previous year and calculating the difference in premium. Ive seen evidence which 
demonstrates that F was not a charged a premium for the member from the date cover 
ceased.   
Consumer duty 
F made reference to Unums obligations under the Consumer Duty. This was introduced on 
31 July 2023 and isnt retrospective so it doesnt apply to this complaint as the event 
complained about happened before the Consumer Duty was introduced. However, I will 
consider the rules and standards that were in place at the time instead. The relevant rules 
say an insurer shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably and should handle clams promptly and 
fairly.
When does cover cease 
In my provisional decision, I referred to the age 71. F said that it didnt ever say 71 but felt 
that Unum was unclear that the cover would cease on the members 70th birthday as 
opposed to the next renewal date and that Unum didnt do enough to make it aware the 
cover was ceasing. 
I apologise for my error in stating that F expected the cover to be in place until the member 
reached 71, however this doesnt change my decision. In my provisional decision I referred 
to the general terms of Fs policy which state that the cover will end when the member 
reaches the cover cease age. Im satisfied that based on this wording the cover ends on the 
members birthday because thats when they reach the cover cease age. I dont agree that 
this could be interpreted to mean at the next renewal.
There isnt anything in the terms about continuation of cover until renewal. While I 
understand that F may have thought the cover would continue until renewal, I cant see that 
Unum have led F to believe that this was the case. 
F says that it wasnt aware that the cover could cease mid-term. Im satisfied that the 
wording of the policy allows for daily changes. So, in the same a new member can join 
midterm, members can also come off the policy in the same way. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that changes can only be made on renewal. 
In my opinion, the terms are very clear in that the cover ceases when a member reaches 
age 70. Im therefore satisfied that Unum has acted fairly and reasonably in declining the 
claim on this basis.
Entry age
F says that the entry age was misleading because it went up to age 70. While I appreciate 
why F thinks this, ultimately it doesnt change when the cover ceases. Also, the member had 
been on the policy for a number of years and had the benefit of the cover until age 70. 
Unums responsibility to inform F cover was ceasing 
F said Unum should have made it aware that the cover was ceasing mid-term. Im satisfied 
the policy wording was clear on when cover ceased and I cant agree that Unum was 
required to do anything more. I say this because it would be unreasonable to expect an 
insurer to monitor each customers policy in this way. In my opinion, it was Fs responsibility 
to be aware when cover ceased and ensure it had the right level of cover in place. It was also open to F to ask for further information such as a policy schedule if that information was 
important to it.  
Overall, whilst I recognise that F will be disappointed with my decision, Im satisfied that 
Unum has acted fairly and reasonably when declining Fs claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman