DRN-1405987
 
complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr F took out a credit card with BoS in 1999. At the same time he bought a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover the repayments on his card for up to 12 months at a time if he wasnt 
able to work. 
Mr F says that he wasnt told the PPI was optional. He says he wasnt given enough 
information about it and he felt pressured to buy it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. Mr F disagrees, although he 
hasnt explained why, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Fs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr F applied for his credit card by post. BoS has provided a copy of the application form. I 
can see that there is a separate section for PPI which makes it clear its optional. Mr F has 
signed specifically to say he wanted the PPI  and hes also signed the completed form. 
Mr F says he felt pressured to buy the PPI. He hasnt said what happened to make him feel 
that way. The transaction didnt involve Mr F speaking to anyone from BoS. Without further 
information about why Mr F felt pressured I cant uphold his complaint on this basis.
On balance, I think Mr F chose to buy the PPI knowing he didnt have to, although I 
understand why he doesnt remember doing so over 20 years later.
BoS didnt personally advise Mr F to buy the PPI, so it didnt have to check it was right for 
him. But it did need to make sure Mr F had enough information to make his own mind up 
about buying it. 
Its possible Mr F didnt receive all that information. Indeed, the application form is very short 
of detail about the policy. But looking at Mr Fs circumstances at the time I dont think it 
wouldve made a difference to his decision to buy it. 
Mr F chose to buy the policy, so it looks like he wanted this type  of cover. Mr F wasnt 
negatively affected by any of the terms which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim  such as those related to existing medical conditions or self-
employment. 
Mr F didnt have any contractual sick pay or savings, so if hed been too ill to work I think 
hed have found the policy useful in covering his credit card repayments. If he had been 
made redundant the policy would have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay he 
received, leaving any redundancy pay to cover other uninsured expenses.
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market around the 
same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without financial penalty. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mr F. 
So although I think its possible Mr F didnt get all the information he shouldve done in 
relation to the policy, I dont think he lost out as a result
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay 
compensation to Mr F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman