DRN-3251443
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs O are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined their 
building insurance claim for damage to their pond following adverse weather. They say 
theyve received poor customer service from Lloyds in the process. 
What happened
Mr K and Mrs O have a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Lloyds. 
On 15 February 2021, they noticed the water level in their garden pond looked low 
and that the pond liner had lifted, causing water to become trapped underneath it. 
A few days later and having noticed the water level had continued to drop, Mr K and 
Mrs O contacted two landscape gardeners for quotes to repair the pond. 
Mrs O says she contacted Lloyds prior to any repair work commencing. Lloyds 
initially said the claim may be considered storm damage, but this subsequently 
changed as Lloyds said the weather conditions at the time did not amount to a storm.
Mr K and Mrs O instructed their own contractor to complete the repairs to the pond. 
The contractor explained the liner had pulled away from under the paving slabs  
some of which had lifted and loosened due to prolonged freezing weather conditions. 
The liner had also torn and the pipe between the filter and pump had cracked.
Mrs O says that both landscape gardeners and a local aquatic centre considered the 
damage to have been caused by the excessive rainfall, freezing conditions and 
heavy snow which was experienced in their area. 
Mrs O shared these findings with Lloyds. Lloyds arranged for a surveyor to attend. 
The surveyor attended and concluded that the damage was not attributable to storm 
damage, but instead due to poor workmanship.
Mrs O raised concerns about the surveyors expertise and their decision to decline 
the claim. She said the surveyor was unprepared, lacked the relevant experience and 
was discourteous. 
The surveyors decision was reviewed by another surveyor at Lloyds who also 
concluded the damage wasnt attributable to a storm, and so, was not covered. 
Mrs O remained unhappy and so complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds maintained its decision to decline the claim was fair but offered £50 
compensation for the poor service it had provided  namely, delays and loss of 
expectation. 
Mrs O wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response and so brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator considered it and said weather reports from around the time didnt 
show that storm conditions were present. She added that even if storm conditions 
were present, the surveyors reports state there wasnt any physical damage which 
could be attributable to a single incident such as a storm. 
She said the surveyors findings identified a slight deterioration to the mortar between 
some of the flagstones which the pond liner was laid under, and that the pond had 
been poorly constructed  both of which are excluded under the policy.
She was satisfied Lloyds offer of £50 compensation was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs O remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. The first consideration 
is whether storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened. The starting point in deciding this is the policy document, which says:
We consider a storm to be strong winds of 55mph or more, and/or heavy snow or 
hail that caused damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Having looked at the weather reports around this time, there were no winds over 55mph.
However, it seems a snowstorm without accompanying winds can be covered under the 
policy, but the snow would need to be heavy enough to damage hard surfaces or break 
glass. So, Id expect a snowstorm of this description to be particularly intense or unusual. 
Ive looked at the weather conditions in the weeks preceding the damage being discovered. 
Whilst reports show temperatures fell below freezing and there was snow and rainfall, Im 
not persuaded this was unusually intense. From what Ive seen, the snow fell consistently 
across the period, but the levels were relatively low (often less then 5cm per day). Its 
possible the gradual build-up of snow may have a similar effective to a snowstorm, but by its 
nature it is simply different to a storm.
I have considered the information Mrs O has provided, including that about Storm Darcy 
which occurred in the same month. But this doesnt change the weather conditions shown 
around their property at the time. So, this hasnt changed my mind. 
Having determined that storm conditions werent present, I ordinarily wouldnt need to 
consider whether the damage was consistent with that caused by a storm and if the storm 
was the main cause. But, in this case, I think it would be helpful to explain my reasoning 
further. 
Ive looked at the evidence Mrs O has provided, in particular, what her contractor considered 
the cause of the damage to be, having inspected it  and it does seem plausible that a 
combination of built up snow and the subsequent thawing of it could cause the damage seen 
to Mrs Os pond. 
But, even if I considered the damage to be in-keeping with that caused by a storm, Lloyds 
has provided evidence from its surveyors which says the pond had been poorly constructed 
and that there was a slight deterioration to the mortar - which in their opinion allowed the 
paving slabs to lift up and the pond lining to fall down. The second surveyor added that if the 
pond had been properly constructed, thermal movement and poor weather wouldnt have 
impacted it. I appreciate Mrs O has concerns about the adequacy of the surveyors inspections, but I havent been provided with information which persuades me their findings 
shouldnt be relied upon. 
With this in mind and taking into account the pond is only a few years old, Im satisfied 
Lloyds comments about the workmanship being the main cause of damage and occurring 
over time with the deteriorated mortar to be fair. 
Customer service
Mrs O has raised concerns about the customer service she and Mr K received from Lloyds. I 
understand that Mrs O would have preferred the second surveyor to visit her property, but as 
the repair works had been completed by that point and he was able to refer to photographs 
of the damage, I think it was reasonable for the surveyor to make a finding without visiting. 
Lloyds has offered £50 compensation to recognise that it could have handled things better 
and managed Mr K and Mrs Os expectations. From what Ive seen, I think thats a fair 
amount, and so I wont be recommending it pay more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman