DRN-3408536
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants £1,500 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
 
What happened
Mr Ms car was stolen, and he made a claim on his policy. And he asked for a courtesy car, 
but he wasnt provided with one. Aviva investigated the claim and then validated it six weeks 
after receiving the investigators report. It then paid the claim a month later. Mr M was 
unhappy that he wasnt provided with a courtesy car, that there were delays in the claim, and 
that he was kept on hold for long periods. 
Aviva agreed there had been errors in the claim handling. It said Mr M was entitled to a 
courtesy car from the date the claim was validated. And it offered him £15 a day for 30 days 
loss of use. It agreed that the claim should have been paid sooner, so it added £5.26 interest 
to the settlement. And it agreed that Mr M should be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. And it offered him £144.74 for this. But Mr M remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr M was 
entitled by an additional benefit bought with his policy to a courtesy car from the date the 
claim was validated. And she thought Avivas offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. 
But she thought that the claim should have been validated when Aviva received the 
investigation report and it didnt explain the delay. She thought this had caused Mr M 
significant trouble and upset. And so she thought Aviva should increase its offer of 
compensation to £500. 
Mr M accepted this. But Aviva didnt reply to the Investigators view and so the complaint 
was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M was left feeling frustrated and angry by Avivas handling of his claim. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Aviva accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Aviva agreed that Mr M was entitled to a courtesy car from the date his claim was validated. 
I can see that on page 8 of Mr Ms policy booklet it states that a car wont be provided until 
the claim is accepted and cover is confirmed. 
But Aviva didnt provide a car when the claim was validated and so I agree that Mr M is 
entitled to a loss of use payment from this point until the claim was settled. Aviva calculated 
a loss of use payment of £450 from the date the claim was validated until the date of 
settlement at an enhanced rate of £15 a day. I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Aviva also agreed that it hadnt assessed the cars value correctly and this had to be 
reviewed and increased. It offered Mr M £5.26 for the interest on his settlement due to this 
30 days delay in settling his claim. I think that was fair and reasonable as it restores Mr Ms 
position. 
Aviva thought the claim hadnt been validated as quickly as it thought it should have been. 
And I think Aviva is required by the relevant regulations to deal with claims promptly. 
Our Investigator asked Aviva to explain how long a claim usually took to validate once it had 
received the investigation report. But it didnt respond. But I agree with the Investigator that 
40 days from receiving the report to validation is excessive. 
So Ive considered the impact this and the other delays in the claim had on Mr M: 
Mr M told Aviva that he lived in an isolated spot, far from the shops with a pregnant 
partner and small child. And I can see that he told Aviva that he needed a car and didnt 
have the funds to buy a replacement. 
Mr M has explained that he had to make alternative arrangements for his transport by 
paying a friend to borrow his car, and this caused him inconvenience.
The delay in the validation caused an additional loss and much upset and inconvenience 
for Mr M. 
Aviva didnt offer Mr M a courtesy car, that he was entitled to, even after the claim had 
been validated and Mr M twice raised the issue. 
So I agree with the Investigator that Avivas poor service caused Mr M prolonged and 
significant trouble and upset. Aviva offered Mr M £144.74 compensation for this. But I dont 
think that is sufficient recognition for the impact of its poor service and delays in these 
circumstances. I agree that Aviva should increase its award to £500. I think this amount is in 
keeping with our published guidance and so it is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr M £955.26 compensation in total for his loss of 
use and for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delays and poor handling of his 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman