DRN-4110590
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have failed to refund over £5,000 he 
says he lost to an investment scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Its no longer in dispute that Mr A authorised the disputed payments he made to his 
crypto wallet with CRO using his Santander debit card (where his funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammers from those platforms). The payments were 
requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by Santander, and 
the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Santander should have done more to prevent Mr A 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
I appreciate that overall, Mr A has lost over £5,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over several smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not have 
appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mr As spending 
history, such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that he 
might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. The payments were not of such an 
amount, for example, that they would represent a significant deviation from the way 
Mr As account was normally run. 
I also acknowledge there were occasions where more than one payment was made in 
the same day to CRO, such as three payments being made on 1 November 2021. 
However, by this point, Mr A had previously already made payments to the crypto 
platform a few days before. So, by the time he came to make these payments, CRO was 
already established on his account as an existing payee, which was also a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange platform. The three payments he made on 1 November 2021 
also only totalled around £3,200, which cumulatively wouldnt have appeared overly 
unusual as an amount to be spent in one day from Mr As account. 
So, having considered the payments Mr A made to CRO, Im not persuaded there was 
anything that ought reasonably to have triggered Santanders fraud monitoring systems, 
or that would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed. 
I understand that Mr A is also unhappy with the way Santander handled his claim, as it 
closed his investigation and didnt respond when he provided further information. I can 
see that Santanders communication could have been better, and I appreciate the 
service Mr A received would have been frustrating. However, Santander has offered £50 
compensation in recognition of its poor handling of Mr As claim which, overall, Im 
satisfied is fair and in line with the sort of award our service would make in these 
circumstances. So, I wont be asking Santander to pay any further compensation.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr A, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Santander liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman