DRN-2570394
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA declined his refund request.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr K bought an item from an online retailer and paid using PayPal. The item 
cost £639.25 and was due to be delivered by a company that Ill refer to as D.
When the item was due to be delivered, Mr K says he stayed indoors all day because he 
was expecting to receive it. Mr K resides in a small block of flats, without a lobby or 
dedicated space for deliveries. The only way to enter the building is by using the intercom, 
and this is how Mr K has received other deliveries. But, on this occasion, hes said nobody 
came to deliver the item hed ordered.
 
Mr K said he was monitoring Ds website to track his item throughout the day. When he saw 
the delivery status of the item had changed to delivered he immediately looked around his 
property, but he couldnt see the parcel anywhere. He went outside, checked the porch 
entrance and his neighbours doors, but still found nothing. Mr K says he contacted D 
straight away to find out what had happened, and it told him to raise the issue with the online 
retailer whod sold him the item.
 
On 21 May, after several phone calls with D, Mr K received an email. D said it had raised the 
issue with the driver who was on duty at the time, but they couldnt recall which property the 
item had been delivered to. Mr K continued to speak with D and, on 29 May, it sent him a 
second email to let him know the delivery status of the item had been changed. The email 
set out that the online retailer from whom Mr K bought the item could now raise a claim.
Mr K did attempt to contact the online retailer, but he wasnt able to resolve the matter with 
them directly. So he took his dispute to PayPal and requested a refund through its 
Buyer Protection scheme. He told PayPal the item wasnt delivered to his address, and he 
provided copies of his correspondence with D, so he asked that it refund what hed paid for 
the undelivered item. But PayPal said information provided by D showed the item had been 
delivered. So it didnt agree to refund Mr K.
 
When Mr K complained PayPal didnt change its position, so he brought his complaint to our 
service. He reiterated that he hadnt received the item, and there was nothing to prove D had 
ever delivered it. He said he wanted PayPal to refund him the amount hed paid for it, and to 
compensate him for the time hed had to spend on the dispute. He said PayPal had been 
difficult to deal with and it hadnt investigated thoroughly enough.
 
Our investigator thought Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded there 
was enough evidence to prove the item had been delivered, and she thought PayPal hadnt 
carried out a thorough enough investigation or done enough to assist Mr K. She said the 
evidence Mr K had provided cast doubt over whether D had delivered the item. So she said 
PayPal should find in favour of Mr K and refund what hed paid. She also thought PayPal 
should compensate Mr K £50 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused.
  
PayPal didnt agree with our investigator, it said it had addressed Mr Ks dispute in line with 
its terms. It considered the delivery information provided by D enough to rely on to show the 
item had been delivered.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at PayPals Buyer Protection scheme which sets out whats required as proof of 
delivery. Among other requirements, the scheme explains that the recipient address 
provided by D in its delivery information must match the shipping address from PayPals 
Transaction Details page. But, from what Ive seen, the delivery address provided by D 
doesnt match.
 
The address shown in Ds tracking information only displays Mr Ks name, his post-code and 
his district. There are no specifics, like a door number or a building or a street name. Having 
seen the Transaction Details page for Mr Ks item, I can see that when he bought it, Mr K did 
provide a full address; including his flat number, his street and so on.
On that basis, I dont think PayPal has acted in line with its own Buyer Protection scheme. 
And whilst I accept it isnt responsible for Ds actions, Im satisfied that Mr K ought to have 
been covered under PayPals Buyer Protection scheme in these circumstances.
Besides, even putting what Ive set out above to one side, PayPal has a duty to treat its 
customers fairly and  on balance  Im not persuaded its done so here.
Mr K has consistently explained why he was sure the item hadnt been delivered to his 
address. Theres no supporting evidence provided by D, such as photographs, to show the 
item was delivered to the correct address. Nor is there any record to show the item was 
signed for by Mr K.
Moreover, I dont think its likely that  if D could be certain it had delivered the item  it 
wouldve agreed to change the delivery status and encouraged Mr K to contact the online 
retailer so they could make a claim. Rather, I think the email D sent to Mr K on 29 May 
accepts the item cant be shown to have been delivered.
So, taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded PayPal has treated Mr K fairly.
Mr K is unhappy with how PayPal dealt with the dispute. And, from what Ive seen, I think it 
couldve handled things better. PayPal seems to have taken things on face value, without 
investigating further or considering the evidence Mr K provided. So Im satisfied Mr K has 
been caused some distress and inconvenience. Overall, I think the fairest way to resolve this matter would be for PayPal to refund Mr K the 
cost of the item. And, considering the circumstances, I think £50 compensation  as 
recommended by the investigator  is a fair and reasonable amount to acknowledge the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to:
refund Mr K £639.25 for the item;
pay 8% simple interest* on that amount from the date of transaction to the date of 
settlement; and
pay Mr K £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to take off tax from this 
interest. PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman