DRN-2022829
The complaint
At the time Santander was trading as National & Provincial - but to keep things simpler Ill 
just refer to Santander as the seller from now on.
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr D took out a mortgage with PPI in 1989. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr D mainly said that he was railroaded into taking out PPI and it wasnt ever explained to 
him that having PPI was optional.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Heres why I say this.
After all this time, it would be unreasonable to expect Mr D to be able to recall precisely what 
was said when the mortgage was arranged and the policy was taken out. And where theres 
only limited information and its unclear what happened I have to look at everything Ive been 
told and sent and decide what I think is most likely.
This means that what Mr D says about the way he was sold the PPI isnt enough on its own 
for me to be able to uphold his complaint on the basis that it wasnt made clear that the 
policy was optional.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr D is sure about what hes told us. But in order to uphold his 
complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr D wasnt given a fair choice about PPI or that 
it was added to the mortgage account without his consent. And I cant fairly say this based 
on the limited information Ive got. 
Looking at the PPI part of the mortgage application Mr D signed, I dont think that theres 
anything written on that form which wouldve reasonably caused Mr D to think that the 
mortgage was only available if he also took out PPI. I say this because I can see theres a 
section that deals with a range of optional features  including PPI. So although I dont know 
what was said about PPI, Mr D wouldve been able to see that he needed to tick a box in 
order to take it out. So I think he wouldve understood at the time that PPI was optional and it 
was up to him to say if he wanted to have it.
I can see also that, despite what Mr D says about being pressured into thinking he had to 
have it, Mr D didnt actually fill in the PPI part of the mortgage application -  these boxes are 
left blank. But its clear he had PPI with his mortgage. So Mr D must have applied for the PPI 
separately. Santander says he wouldve had to fill in a separate application and set up 
separate payment arrangements at his bank if he wanted to take out the policy. 
So, taking all this information into account, I cant fairly say that I've seen enough to be able 
to say that Santander didnt make it clear that it was open to Mr D not to choose PPI if he 
didnt want to have it. 
On balance, I think that Santander did do enough to make Mr D aware that the PPI was 
optional and it was added to the mortgage at his request.
Santander told us the mortgage was arranged during a meeting and says it wouldve 
recommended the PPI to Mr D. This means it had to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
cover was suitable for him. 
The policy in use when Mr D arranged his mortgage isnt available - but Santander has 
provided an example of a policy in use shortly after Mr D took out PPI. So I think its likely 
that in all main respects the policy that Mr D took out wouldve had similar terms and 
conditions.
It looks like Mr D was eligible for the policy and it protected him in the event of 
unemployment for at least 12 months per claim  it could possibly have paid out for up to 
18 months or even 24 months per claim depending on the amount of cover Mr D chose. 
I've taken into account what Mr D told us about his sick pay entitlement from his employer. 
The policy couldve paid out the monthly benefit hed selected on top of any sick pay 
received through work. This couldve been useful  particularly if he had extra costs as a 
result of illness or disability. 
And, as well as this, it wouldve paid out if he lost his job unexpectedly and became 
unemployed. 
Mr D told us that he had nothing else to fall back on and no other ways to pay the mortgage 
if he wasnt able to work. So I think that the policy was suitable for Mr D. 
Its possible some of the information Mr D was given about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if that 
wouldve affected Mr D. So I dont think having more information about things the policy 
didnt cover wouldve put him off taking it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr D when he bought the policy. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that paying for it caused him any money problems. And as Mr D paid for 
the policy each month, he couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if he no longer wanted to 
pay for it or keep the policy running.  
Mr Ds mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. His home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI 
provided dependable protection  and better cover than he had otherwise. So, I can see why 
Mr D mightve felt PPI was useful to have.  Its possible there mightve been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think its likely that Mr D still wouldve decided to buy the 
policy if hed been better informed as it gave him useful protection in his particular situation.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr D paid on the PPI  and whether Santander 
treated him unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr Ds PPI was less than half of what he paid 
for each premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ds commission was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. 
As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell Mr D about the commission  so I dont think 
Santander treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr D paid for the PPI. 
I appreciate that Mr D feels strongly that he was mis-sold PPI and he will be disappointed at 
the outcome. But I hope that setting things out as I've done will help explain how I've 
reached my final decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman