DRN-2838425
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the delays and handling of a claim he made under his 
commercial property insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc.
What happened
In June 2020 a property Mr P was letting was broken into twice and the property was 
damaged. Mr P made a claim to the insurer, AXA. The claims were treated as two claims as 
two incidents had occurred. Mr Ps claims have been settled to his satisfaction. However, he 
is very unhappy with the delay and the handling of the claim by AXA and raised a complaint. 
Mr P felt some of the enquiries AXA and its agents made were unnecessary. Mr P said the 
experience of having to deal with the claims was worse than dealing with the break ins.
In November 2020 AXA said that it was necessary to make the enquiries it did in order to 
validate the claims. But it said its underwriter could have dealt with matters sooner  and it 
said it caused a delay in telling Mr P the outcome of the claims. For this, AXA offered Mr P a 
total of £275 (£250 for its underwriters delay and £25 for the outcome delay). 
Mr P rejected AXAs offer and asked us to look at his complaint. He said the compensation 
amount didnt reflect the poor handling of the claim by AXA or the impact this had on his 
health. 
Our investigator thought that AXAs compensation offer was reasonable for the delay 
caused. 
Mr P didnt agree. He has reiterated his concerns as to the enquiries AXA and its agents 
made. He doesnt feel we have properly considered the impact of AXAs handling on him. 
So Mr P wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P reported an incident from 2 June 2020 to AXA on 9 June 2020. While this claim was 
being considered, a second incident occurred on 23 June 2020. 
The first incident was a break in whereby the tenant was assaulted and the property was 
damaged. The second incident was a further break in and the property was extensively 
damaged. 
Mr P says he wants us to listen to the calls between him, the agent and AXA and to explain 
why it took months to establish if the claim was covered and what the excesses would be. Mr 
P says he didnt appoint the agent  AXA did -  and different people handled his claim. 
We dont always ask for recordings of calls as we consider each case on its own merits and 
whether we have enough information in other correspondence to reach a decision. All 
parties have provided detailed timelines and copy email exchanges in this case. And it isnt 
in dispute that AXA caused a delay. I dont think its unusual for an insurer to appoint an 
agent to handle a claim on its behalf. I cant criticise a business for having more than one 
person involved in the handling of a claim.
Ive looked at the timeline of events since Mr P reported the incident. AXA instructed an 
agent to manage the claim. Unfortunately, a video meeting planned on 15 July 2020 at the 
property with Mr P was unsuccessful due to technology issues. 
Mr P says the whole claim was handled unprofessionally and if the agent hadnt made 
assumptions from the outset, it would have been settled much sooner. He says the agent is 
responsible for the video meeting failing.
I can see that in exchanges between the agent and Mr P on 20 and 21 July 2020, Mr P 
clearly set out what he intended to include in his claim and what he didnt wanted to claim 
for. However, the agent in their reply told Mr P he wouldnt be covered for the same items he 
didnt intend to claim for. And I can see that in one of their emails, the agent acknowledges 
that perhaps they hadnt been clear enough in explaining what the next steps were and what 
they wanted from Mr P in order to progress his claim. But I can see that by 21 July 2020 this 
had been clarified with Mr P. 
Between 20 July 2020 and 5 August 2020 the agent asked for further information, and Mr P 
asked for clarification about the claims process. A telephone interview was arranged with Mr 
P on 11 August 2020 and on 12 August 2020 the agent asked Mr P for further information: 
including a witness statement, evidence of rent payments, council tax and quotes for the 
damage, which Mr P promptly provided. 
Due to the complexity of the claim, the agent needed to request further information from the 
police. In August 2020 AXAs underwriters asked Mr P to provide further details about the 
tenant due to an occupancy term under the policy. The agent explained to Mr P that AXA 
needed to establish the excess payable when considering validating the claim(s) due to two 
incidents occurring close together. 
In the complaints Mr P raised in August 2020, he was unhappy that the agent asked him to 
have his mother sign his witness statement. I cant see that AXA replied to this complaint 
point. And having looked at the file provided by AXA, I cant see why the agent on AXAs 
behalf asked Mr P to do this. In any event, Mr P asked his wife to sign his witness statement 
and it seems this was accepted by AXA.
Mr P says that photos he sent to the agent were ignored for many weeks. Hes unhappy that 
the agent he was dealing with was on annual leave on different occasions for the duration of 
his claim. 
I cant see that the photos not being reviewed sooner had any impact on the handling of the 
claim. I note that due to the video meeting not being successful, Mr P sent photos to the 
agent. But in August the agent requested a police report  and AXAs underwriter looked into 
the tenancy occupancy issue and the excess. There wasnt a tenancy agreement in place 
with the tenant. This added to the validation process AXA went through. I think a delay was 
caused by AXAs underwriters. But I dont think the agents annual leave had an additional 
impact. I appreciate Mr P believes the claims were straight forward, but I can understand why further 
enquiries were made given the circumstances of both events. Ultimately it is for a customer 
to prove their claim. An insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries in order to validate it. 
And when a claim is made, I think its reasonable for a customer to expect a degree of 
inconvenience. Unfortunately I think this is inevitable. In this case, the circumstances of the 
claims were that there were two events involving damage that happened within a month. So 
I think it was reasonable for AXA  and its agent  to investigate and ask for necessary 
information before it could validate Mr Ps claims. This meant that the claims took longer to 
settle. 
However, I think AXA caused unnecessary delay over and above what was reasonable in 
this case. I think AXA is responsible for a delay of three months between August 2020 and 
November 2020 over its enquiries about the tenants occupancy. 
Our awards for compensation are generally modest and are not to be compared with 
damages that a court might award. I sympathise with Mr P for what hes been through but 
having considered the circumstances I think the compensation offered by AXA is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that the complaint is upheld. I think the 
compensation of £275 offered by AXA Insurance UK Plc is fair to resolve the complaint and 
that AXA should pay that sum (if it hasnt already) to Mr P. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman