DRN-3497224
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Santander UK Plc caused delays with their mortgage application 
and then unfairly applied an early repayment charge (ERC) when they moved to another 
lender. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with Santander which was taken out in October 2014. They 
borrowed £385,995 over a term of 13 years and 6 months, on a capital repayment basis. 
Mr and Mrs H were on a fixed rate which they took out in November 2018 and this rate was 
due to expire in November 2024. Mrs H explained to Santander that they wanted to 
purchase a second property because it was nearer to her work and they required this as a 
second home. Mrs H explained that their broker told them that borrowing additional funds on 
their existing mortgage was the best way to do it. 
Mrs H first contacted Santander on 14 May 2020 to explain what she wanted to do, but 
Santander explained that it wouldnt be possible to proceed with the remortgage application 
due to the restrictions that were in place. They said because of the value of Mr and Mrs Hs 
property, they would need a physical valuation carried out and because of covid-19, it wasnt 
possible to get a surveyor out because of the lockdown that the country was in at that 
moment in time. Mrs H called again in June 2020 and she said she was told the same.
Mrs H contacted Santander again on 14 July 2020 to start the mortgage application, but 
Santander explained there was a unauthorised let marker on the system. Mrs H explained 
that she spoke to Santander in 2018 about the possibility of letting out the property, but they 
had chosen not to do so. Santander at the time, sent out a letter to Mr and Mrs H and said 
they could proceed with the let if they paid a fee  and as they didnt hear back from Mr and 
Mrs H, they applied the marker on the system. Santander removed the marker on the 
following day, on 15 July and Santander offered £100 to Mr and Mrs H for the error. 
Santander then proceeded with the application. 
The application was then approved by the underwriters on 28 July 2020 subject to a 
valuation, but Mr and Mrs H said they never heard anything, so Mrs H called Santander on 
14 August 2020 to find out what was going on. Mrs H said she told Santander on this call 
that there had been delays and she was under pressure to complete on the other property  
and was considering going to another lender to get things moving. Santander explained that 
on this call, they made it clear that Mr and Mrs H would incur an ERC if they moved their 
mortgage. 
Santander instructed the surveyor on 19 August and on 20 August, the mortgage was 
redeemed which meant that Mr and Mrs H incurred an ERC of £10,432.34. 
Santander accepted that there was a three-week delay and offered £250 to Mr and Mrs H 
because of this. Mr and Mrs H wanted the ERC refunded due to the delays, but Santander 
explained the ERC was charged in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage so 
didnt agree to refund it.
Mrs H then asked if she could port the mortgage over to the new property in order to get the 
ERC refunded, but Santander said this was not possible as porting a mortgage (transferring 
the product from one property to another), is not possible if the property is already owned, as 
it must be done simultaneously.
Mr and Mrs H were not happy with this, so they brought their complaint to our service where 
it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
acknowledged the delay that had been caused by Santander but said due to covid 
restrictions in place, and the delays in general, there was no guarantee that the mortgage 
would have completed in time. And he also said it was Mr and Mrs Hs choice to redeem the 
mortgage and move to another lender. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with this. They made the following comments:
There was no guarantee that the mortgage wouldnt have completed in time and the 
mortgage only progressed because she raised a complaint
Their application was sitting around for three weeks and when she called in August, 
the surveyor was instructed the following day with an appointment made within one 
day. Mrs H believes had this of happened sooner, they would not be in this position
They believe that Santander should let them return to them by porting the mortgage 
to the new property, because it is all down to their errors
They have suffered significant loss by paying the ERC as a direct result of the errors 
caused by Santander
As Mr and Mrs H disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 23 February 2022. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H have paid a substantial ERC so I can understand why they are 
unhappy about it. Having looked at everything, I think that Santander have acted 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H wanted to purchase another property so that it was closer to Mrs Hs 
work. She first contacted Santander on the 14 May 2020 and was told it wasnt 
possible as a physical valuation needed to be carried out on the property because of 
its value  before any application could take place. 
Mrs H said she called again in June 2020 and she was told the same thing, but 
Santander have not been able to locate any of these calls  and the contact notes I 
have been provided with dont reflect any calls either. It wasnt until Mrs H called 
again on 14 July 2020, then an application was made. The issue with the 
unauthorised let market was resolved the following day, so I this didnt cause any 
delays. And Santander offered Mr and Mrs H £100 as compensation for this, which I 
think is reasonable.
Mr and Mrs H then proceeded with the application which was approved on 28 July 
2020, but Mr and Mrs H didnt hear anything until Mrs H called Santander on 14 
August 2020 to find out what was going on. I have listened to this call and Mrs H 
explains that they are under pressure to complete on the property. Santander 
explained that their application was marked as an internal training case in error 
which meant it didnt proceed to the next stage automatically. Santander apologised 
for this. A valuation was then instructed on 19 August 2020, but Mr and Mrs H 
redeemed the mortgage on 20 August 2020 after arranging a mortgage with another 
lender. I accept that Santander acted quickly as soon as they found out the error that had 
occurred with the application and offered Mr and Mrs H £250 for inconvenience 
caused. But I think there is more that needs to be considered. 
Santander told us that physical valuations were allowed to resume in Scotland on 29 
June 2020 and as they had a backlog of cases, they worked through in date order. 
I have listened to the telephone call that Mrs H initially had with Santander on 14 May 
2020. The adviser at Santander explained that it wasnt possible for Mr and Mrs H to 
continue with the mortgage application, for the reasons that have already been 
explained. The adviser told Mrs H that they would keep Mrs Hs case on file, and they 
would be in contact to let her know when they were able to proceed. Later, in the 
same call, the adviser said they are not able to proceed so what they are doing, is 
keeping an eye and when they have changes in their ability to process applications, 
they are calling customers back if they are able to proceed. This didnt happen.
Had Santander of contacted Mrs H when they were ready to proceed with the 
application, this would have given Mr and Mrs H an additional two weeks which is in 
addition to the three week delay that Santander caused by delaying the application  
to complete on their property. Its therefore more likely that things would have moved 
along quicker so that Mr and Mrs H could have completed on their mortgage by the 
end of August 2020. Santander would have been aware that physical valuations were 
able to go ahead prior to it happening from 29 June so the reasonable thing for them 
to have done here, was to let Mr and Mrs H know this  so that they could proceed 
with their application. Its also fair to say that Mr and Mrs H may have called back 
sooner to find out about the valuations starting sooner had they not have been told 
theyd get a call back.
Mr and Mrs H managed to get a mortgage with another lender very quickly and they 
ended up completing on time. It doesnt appear they were subject to any chain so its 
more likely than not, had it not been for the five week or so delays caused by 
Santander, Mr and Mrs H wouldve been able to complete on their property purchase 
on time. 
Santander explained to us that they would not proactively contact a consumer when 
an application was not in progress but that isnt what Mrs H was told on the 
telephone call. The adviser made it clear that Santander would contact customers to 
let them know when they could proceed.  I think had Santander of done this, this 
would have made a difference to Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H were under considerable pressure to complete on their purchase and 
the contact notes I have seen, reflect that. In the end, they felt that they had no 
choice but to find another lender in order to try and complete their purchase on time.  
This left Mr and Mrs H with an additional financial burden during what was already a 
difficult and stressful period. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H were told on the call in August 2020 that they would 
be charged an ERC if they went to another lender, but due to the pressure that they 
were under, I feel Santander left Mr and Mrs H no choice as they would have lost the 
property they were trying to buy. 
I think that in order to put things right, Santander should refund the ERC to Mr and 
Mrs H. I think the compensation that has been offered for £250 and £100 for the 
initial errors that occurred is fair and reasonable, however the ERC should also be 
refunded. 
My provisional decision
My intention is to uphold this complaint and I required Santander to:Refund the ERC plus 8% simple interest from the date the ERC was paid until 
the date of settlement
If Santander UK Plc deducts the tax from any interest it pays to Mr and Mrs H as 
above, they should provide Mr and Mrs H with a tax deduction certificate, so they can 
reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate. 
Developments
Mr and Mrs H and Santander both responded to the provisional decision. Mr and Mrs H 
accepted it and had nothing further to add. Santander said they dont dispute that there were 
delays and poor service during the application process, but they are unable to agree with the 
outcome which has been reached regarding the ERC. 
They said after reviewing the complaint and the movement on the mortgage and current 
account, they are uncertain as to why Mr and Mrs H made the decision to redeem their 
mortgage. Santander said Mr and Mrs H wanted to borrow £200,000 against their mortgage 
to purchase another property. They said the application indicated that Mr and Mrs H had 
access to the remainder of the funds required. After the delays they encountered, Mr and 
Mrs H made the decision to pay off their mortgage with a transfer from their current account. 
They transferred £219,508.98. 
Santander said that as Mr and Mrs H clearly had access to these funds and the mortgage 
account was not repaid with funds being received from a solicitor, they dont understand why 
Mr and Mrs H didnt use these funds to purchase the property they were buying  but instead 
redeemed their mortgage. Santander said that had they of done this, they wouldnt have 
incurred the ERC. They said it seems that Mr and Mrs H made the choice of their own 
volition to end their mortgage with Santander when it was not necessary. Santander also 
provided information which shows that Mr and Mrs Hs property hasnt been sold and asked 
that we reconsider the position regarding the ERC. 
My second provisional findings
I issued a second provisional decision dated 27 April 2022. I said:
Having considered the information that has been provided, I have departed from my 
provisional decision and now set out what I think in my second provisional decision.
Ill firstly comment on the information that Santander have provided regarding the fact 
that Mr and Mrs H havent sold their property. 
It was never Mr and Mrs Hs intention to sell their property. They wanted to purchase 
a second property nearer to Mrs Hs work as it would be easier for her in terms of 
travel. Mr and Mrs H wanted to borrow £200,000 for the purchase of their second 
home. 
The purchase price of the second property that Mr and Mrs H were buying was 
£485,000. They wanted to borrow £200,000 from Santander against their existing 
mortgage, to purchase the property. Mr and Mrs H have told us they always intended 
on using some of their own funds to cover the deposit and other associated costs. So 
this does explain the savings they already held. 
However, having re-considered the information that Santander provided us and some 
further information from Mr and Mrs H, it seems that Mrs H already owned a second 
property which was based in the same area which was closer to her work. Based on 
the information provided to Santander, it appears that this property was possibly let 
out. And this mortgage was held with the same lender that Mr and Mrs H took out the 
new mortgage with. 
We asked that third party lender to provide us with copies of the mortgage application 
form and the mortgage offer and it shows that Mrs H applied for this mortgage (in her sole name) in March 2020  which was before Mr and Mrs H approached Santander. 
We also asked Santander to provide the mortgage application that Mr and Mrs H 
completed with them, and the application was made on 15 July 2020. Having looked 
at this application, Mr and Mrs H did declare that they held another mortgage, so this 
wasnt something that they kept from Santander. And the other lender also knew that 
Mrs H held another mortgage with Santander too.
I do understand that Mr and Mrs H wanted to try and stay with Santander but due to 
the delays it wasnt possible, so they went with the other lender. The information that 
has now come to light does show that Mrs H had already approached the other 
lender before contacting Santander, and she said she wanted to ensure things were 
moving as she didnt want to lose the new property she had found close to work, and 
ideally, still wanted to stay with Santander.  
Having looked at the mortgage offer provided by the other lender; it shows that Mrs H 
was already tied into a mortgage deal so it seems like she would have had to pay an 
ERC to the other lender if she redeemed that mortgage. And the mortgage 
application that she made with them shows that she wanted to port that mortgage to 
the new property she wanted to purchase. A condition of that offer was that the 
mortgage held with Santander had to be paid off  because Mrs H couldnt afford to 
keep both. 
So it now seems that Mrs H would have had to pay an ERC regardless, either with 
Santander if she redeemed that mortgage, or with the other lender if she redeemed 
that one. The other lender has told us that Mrs H redeemed that mortgage on 13 
March 2020 and paid an ERC of £5,937.81 but she completed on the new property 
(the same one she was trying to buy when she applied for the mortgage with 
Santander), on 26 August 2020. The mortgage with Santander was redeemed on 20 
August 2020. Because Mrs H completed within a specific period of time, the other 
lender refunded part of the ERC to Mrs H - £5,699.74.
I accept the ERC with Santander was for much more, so I do understand why Mr and 
Mrs H wanted to stay with Santander, but because of the delays, they felt they had 
no option but to go with the other lender. But knowing now that Mrs H would have 
had to pay an ERC with the other lender if the Santander mortgage application had 
gone through, I dont think its fair that Santander refund the entire ERC that Mr and 
Mrs H were charged. 
I still think that Santander caused delays and as Ive already explained, the initial 
adviser that Mrs H spoke to said she would call Mrs H back when applications were 
proceeding again. I still believe that had this of happened, the application with 
Santander would have gone through much quicker so Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
had to redeem their mortgage with Santander. They would have however, of had to 
redeem their mortgage with the other lender. 
I therefore intend on asking Santander to pay the difference in both ERCs. Mr and 
Mrs H paid an ERC of £10,432.34 with Santander and had a partial ERC refund from 
the other lender of £5,699.74. So based on this, I think that Santander should refund 
£4,732.60 which is the difference in both ERCs. 
My second provisional decision
For the reasons given above and in my original provisional decision, I intend to 
uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to:
Refund £4,732.60 plus 8% simple interest from the date the Santander ERC 
was paid until the date of settlementIf Santander UK Plc deducts the tax from any interest it pays to Mr and Mrs H as 
above, they should provide Mr and Mrs H with a tax deduction certificate, so they can 
reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate. 
Developments
Santander responded to the provisional decision and accepted what I had said. Mr and Mrs 
H responded to it also and said they had no further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Santander have accepted the provisional decision and Mr and Mrs H have no further 
comments to make, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my original provisional decisions, I uphold this complaint 
and direct Santander UK Plc to:
Refund £4,732.60 plus 8% simple interest from the date the Santander ERC 
was paid until the date of settlement
If Santander UK Plc deducts the tax from any interest it pays to Mr and Mrs H as above, they 
should provide Mr and Mrs H with a tax deduction certificate, so they can reclaim the tax 
from the tax authorities if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman