DRN-2555281
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) has refused their claim for a 
cancelled trip under their travel insurance policy.
For ease, any reference to Lloyds also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have an annual multi trip travel policy through Mrs Cs employer which is 
insured by Lloyds, and which renews in January each year. 
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs C booked a trip to Asia, departing from the UK on 16 March 
2020. On 12 March 2020, Mr C was advised against travelling on this trip by his GP, due to 
the high risk of coronavirus in the area and his underlying health conditions. As a result, 
Mr and Mrs C cancelled their booking and made a claim under their travel insurance policy.
Lloyds refused the claim. It said the policy excluded cancellation claims arising from 
pandemics and, as the cause of the cancellation was the high risk of coronavirus  which by 
this point had been declared as a pandemic by the World Health Organisation (WHO)  
there was no cover under the policy.
 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs C complained to Lloyds and brought their 
complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter and agreed that there was 
an exclusion under the cancellation section for claims arising from a pandemic. But he also 
found that the policy excluded cover for trips when travelling against the advice of a doctor. 
He said this meant Mr and Mrs C were not covered to cancel the trip but also wouldnt be 
covered if they continued with the trip  he found that this wasnt fair and reasonable. Our 
investigator said the claim should be paid. 
Lloyds disagreed with our investigators view. It said that the GP hadnt advised against all 
travel, but only against travel to a high-risk area which shows that the advice was destination 
and not travel specific. It stated that the cover under the policy is for when Mr and Mrs C are 
unable to travel, not for matters of trip/destination suitability. 
Lloyds also referred to a general exclusion for cancellations claims which relates to trips 
booked against the advice of a GP. It said at the time of booking, Mr C had not received 
advice not to travel and so this general term didnt apply. It said the claim would then be 
subject to the remaining terms of cover applying to the cancellation section  including the 
exclusion relating to the pandemic. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
The policy Mr and Mrs C hold includes terms and conditions relating to the cover provided. 
The relevant parts are as follows:
SECTION 1  CANCELLATION
YOU are covered
up to the amount stated in the Table of Benefits for cancellation charges for which YOU are 
legally liable as a result of the necessary and unavoidable cancellation of YOUR TRIP (in its 
entirety) due to specific, sudden, unforeseen and verifiable circumstances, totally beyond 
YOUR control during the PERIOD OF INSURANCE.
YOU are not covered for
[]
8. any losses arising from an epidemic or pandemic as categorised as such by any
Government and/or the World Health Organisation;
TYPES OF TRIP COVERED
It does NOT cover
TRIPS where YOU are travelling against the advice of YOUR doctor or where YOU 
have failed to consult YOUR doctor and he would in all likelihood have advised 
against travel if consulted;
Im aware that in his review of the complaint, our investigator also referred to policy terms 
about the advice provided by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and restrictions 
on the cover dependent on that advice. However, Im of the opinion that the policy terms 
detailed above are the most relevant and so I wont be referring to the FCO advice term in 
my decision. 
Mr and Mrs C cancelled their trip after being advised by their GP that Mr C shouldnt travel to 
this area as there was a high risk of coronavirus which Mr C should avoid due to his pre-
existing health conditions. Im satisfied that the reason for the cancellation was a specific 
circumstance, verified by their GP and wasnt foreseen by them. So, Im persuaded that they 
have shown they had a claim under the cancellation section of the policy. 
If an insured person can show they have a valid claim, it falls to the insurer to prove there is 
an exclusion that applies. Lloyds has relied upon the exclusion in the cancellation section 
relating to losses arising from pandemics. It says the GP has confirmed the reason for 
advising against travel is the high risk of coronavirus in the area Mr and Mrs C were 
travelling to. As coronavirus (or more specifically Covid 19) had already been declared as a 
pandemic prior to the cancellation of the trip, I can appreciate why Lloyds rejected the claim. 
However, having thought about this case very carefully, I dont think that this produces a fair 
and reasonable outcome here. Ill explain why.
As is commonplace with the majority, if not all, travel insurance policies available on the 
market, the policy includes terms that apply generally to all sections of cover. In respect of 
Mr and Mrs Cs case, the policy excludes trips where you are travelling against the advice of 
your doctor. Mr C was advised not to travel on the planned trip by his doctor. So, if hed done so, it 
seems he wouldnt have been covered due to this general term under the policy. This means 
that effectively, Mr and Mrs C were not covered if they cancelled their trip, but alternatively, if 
they had chosen to travel as planned and not lose out on the costs of the trip, they wouldnt 
have been covered at all. In my view, this isnt fair or reasonable. 
Lloyds has referred to a general exclusion which says cover for cancellation is excluded 
when a trip is booked against the advices of a GP. It said this advice was not in place at the 
time of Mr and Mrs C booking the trip - so this general exclusion doesnt apply. So it says the 
claim is therefore subject to the remaining terms of cover under the cancellation section. I 
agree with Lloyds that this general exclusion doesnt apply in Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances 
 but this isnt the same exclusion. The exclusion Ive referred to states cover will not apply 
for trips taken where an insured person is travelling against medical advice  it doesnt state 
that this is dependent on when that advice is given.  
Ive also noted Lloyds comments regarding cover under the cancellation section being for 
when you are unable to travel, but the advice from the GP was specific to the location they 
were visiting. However, the policy terms detailed above dont support that argument. The 
cancellation section of the policy and the general condition relating to travelling against 
medical advice both refer to the trip  it doesnt stipulate it needs to be all travel. Therefore, 
whether the GP advised against travel in its entirety or for a more localised area, it doesnt 
alter my view that the claim should be paid. 
Putting things right
Lloyds needs to do the following:
pay Mr and Mrs Cs claim for the cancelled holiday  taking into account any 
deduction for policy excesses if applicable;
pay simple interest at 8% a year, from the date of the claim until the date of 
settlement.
If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint.
Society of Lloyds needs to put things right as outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman