DRN-3095891
The complaint
Mr P complains that Inspop.com Ltd trading as Confused.com (Confused) guaranteed to 
beat his home insurance renewal and failed to do so. 
What happened
Mr P used Confuseds online search platform to compare home insurance premiums. The 
company had a promotion running at the time. The promotion was referred to as, Our 
guarantee to beat your home insurance renewal quote. Mr P understood this to mean he 
would be offered a lower premium than he had paid with his previous insurer. 
Mr P says Confused didnt honour the guarantee. The company says his renewal quote was 
no longer valid at the time he used its comparison site. And that he didnt choose the lowest 
base premium. It says the lowest base premium it offered was still lower than he paid his 
previous insurer.   
Mr P says he tried to the follow the terms of the promotion and opt for a like for like policy. 
But the website wouldnt allow him to do this. He says he selected the quote that was the 
closest to his previous policy. This resulted in a higher premium than he had previously paid. 
Confused maintained its view but provided a £20 voucher for the inconvenience and upset 
Mr P had felt. 
Mr P referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He 
thought Confused had fairly applied the terms of its promotion. He said the guarantee was to 
beat a renewal quote, but Mr P didnt have a current policy. His last renewal quote was valid 
until February 2020 and he hadnt tried to renew until July 2020. Our investigator thought the 
£20 voucher Confused offered was fair as its emails could have been clearer.
Mr P didnt agree with this outcome. The complaint has now been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. I understand this will be disappointing for 
Mr P, but I will explain why I think this is fair.
The relevant promotion terms say:
Confused.com guarantees that the price you pay for a new policy purchased through 
www.confused.com during the promotion will be cheaper than the renewal price offered by 
your current insurance provider, or we will refund the difference plus £20.00, subject to the 
following criteria: 
On the day of its inception, the policy must be on a like-for-like basis, including any voluntary 
excess. You must be able to provide evidence of your renewal and new policy including your 
personal details, the property, contents (if applicable) and the level of cover. 
The offer applies only to the original renewal price offered by your current insurer, and 
excludes any price discounts, offers or negotiated rates offered after the original renewal.
Confused accepts there were extenuating circumstances why Mr P didnt renew his policy in 
February 2020, when he received his renewal notice. But by the time he looked for a quote 
five months had elapsed. The company says the start date of the new policy and the date of 
the renewal dont match. It says this cannot be considered, like for like.
Mr P says the terms do not say the renewal date has to coincide with the new policys start 
date. I have thought about whether Confuseds application of the promotion terms is fair, 
given his comments.
Mr P has supplied a letter from his previous insurer that is dated in June 2020. This was four 
months after the renewal date, over which he hadnt paid any premiums. The letter explains 
Mr Ps options on how he could proceed with his policy. He chose to cancel from the renewal 
date in February 2020. This meant he didnt have to pay any premiums from February to 
June 2020. 
So, in July when Mr P went on Confuseds comparison site, he didnt have insurance in 
place. This meant there was no renewal quote to beat because this had expired back in 
February 2020.  
Confused refers to its terms that say the policy must be like for like, and that, the price you 
pay for a new policywill be cheaper than the renewal price offered by your current 
insurance provider.
I understand what Mr P is saying about the policy start date. But its clear the terms apply to 
beating the renewal price offered by the customers current insurer. As above, when Mr P 
selected his new policy in July 2020, he had no insurance policy in place, and the renewal 
price he had been offered was only valid in February 2020. Because of this I think Confused 
acted fairly in determining the promotion didnt apply.
There has been some discussion between the parties about Confuseds website not allowing 
Mr P to select the exact same values as his previous policy. He says this prevented him 
selecting a like for like policy. I dont think these points need consideration here for the 
reasons given above. The promotion doesnt apply in Mr Ps circumstances as there was no 
renewal quote to beat.  
I think it was fair that Confused provided a £20 voucher for the inconvenience and upset Mr 
P experienced. I agree with our investigator that its email explanations could have been 
clearer. But for the reasoning given above, I cant reasonably ask the company to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman