DRN-4295564
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1997.
What happened
Mrs H was sold the PPI at the same time as applying for the store card in a shop.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on a 
balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have happened given the 
evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs H says she has no recollection of the sale, which is not surprising given how long ago it 
took place. But she says she cant see why she would have taken out PPI.
Ive seen a copy of the store card application form that Mrs H signed. There was a separate 
section for PPI with a box that had to be ticked to agree to buy the policy. Mrs H has ticked 
the box.
From what we know of the sales process at the time, the PPI was usually presented as 
optional, and I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that something different 
happened in this case. 
Based on the available evidence, I consider it more likely than not that Mrs H decided to buy 
the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
This was a non-advised sale. So AXA didnt need to ensure that the policy was suitable for 
Mrs H. But it did need to provide sufficient information for her to be able to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the PPI was right for her.
Mrs H would have received some sick pay from her job. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than she would have received full pay for. 
Mrs H says her partner and family would have helped out financially. But having the policy 
would have meant not having to ask her family to pay her store card repayments for her. So, 
I think she had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have 
been a difficult time.
Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much information as it should have about the PPI, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, she didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that would have been 
excluded under the policy. As I think that she had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy 
it, I dont think that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So, Mrs H 
is no worse off as a result of anything AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing that 
AXA needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman