DRN-3739154
The complaint
Mr N has said that Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit is the assignee of an 
unregistered security, which was unlawfully transferred from another lender. He said that the 
debt is uncollectable, and the charge should be removed from the title.
Mr N has been represented in this complaint by Mr N1. Any reference to Mr N1 in this 
decision should be taken to mean him acting on behalf of Mr N.
What happened
Mr N took out the mortgage in 2006 with a lender Ill refer to as K.
In 2017 K changed its loan accounting system and as part of that Mr Ns mortgage was 
allocated a new mortgage account number.
In April 2021 Mr N1 raised a complaint with K about the change in account number. He said 
that as part of the change the old account was redeemed and the new one was opened 
without Mr Ns consent. 
K transferred the mortgage to Engage on 12 March 2022, with K sending a letter to Mr N on 
22 February to let him know about the upcoming change and Engage sending a welcome 
letter on 13 March.
Mr N1 complained to K about the transfer of the mortgage to Engage, and K forwarded the 
complaint to Engage. Engage responded to say that under the terms of the original 
agreement with K the mortgage could be transferred.
Mr N1 didnt accept Engages response and referred the complaint to our service, where it 
was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator said that the conditions of the 
mortgage allowed it to be transferred by K without Mr Ns consent, and that the debt and 
charge still remained.
Mr N1 didnt agree and so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious Ive condensed the events of the complaint into rather less detail than the 
parties have presented them. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. No discourtesy is intended by this; its merely a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service.
My role requires that I make my decision on what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. So whilst the law is a relevant consideration, our service doesnt 
automatically approach a complaint in the same way that a court might.
Im satisfied Mr N received the letter from K which explained the mortgage was being 
transferred to Engage, as Mr N1 referred to this in his complaint to K. Engage sent its 
welcome letter to the same address and so  on balance  Im persuaded that letter was 
more than likely also received by Mr N.
Mr N signed the Standard Security form when he took out the mortgage. That said:
The Borrower acknowledges receipt of the initial Advance and HEREBY 
UNDERTAKES (a) to repay each Advance to the Lender and (b) to pay and discharge 
to the Lender all other money and obligations which the Borrower owes to the Lender 
now or in the future forming any part of the Debt (as described under the heading The 
Main Subject Matter of Your Mortgage in the Conditions), including all interest, costs, 
charges and expenses payable in accordance with the Conditions: And the Borrower 
hereby undertakes to observe and be bound by the provisions of the Conditions and the 
Offer, copies of all of which the Borrower acknowledges to have received and which it is 
agreed shall be deemed to be incorporated in and form part of this Standard Security
The Standard Conditions specified in Schedule 3 to the Conveyancing and Feudal 
Reform (Scotland) Act 1970, as amended and varied by (a) the Redemption of Standard 
Securities (Scotland) Act 1971 and (b) the Conditions and any lawful variation thereof 
operative for the time being shall apply: And the Consentor (if any) consents to the 
Borrower dispensing with or shortening the period of any calling up notice served in 
terms of Section 19 (10) of the Conveyancing and Feudal Reform (Scotland) Act 1970: 
And the Borrower grants warrandice: And the Borrower consents to registration of this 
Standard Security and of any certificate of the amount of the Debt for execution.
It explained by Conditions it was referring to:
the Deed of Variations of Standard Conditions made by the Lender dated the 
23rd September and registered in the Books of Council and Session the 4th October both 
in the year 2004 and any variation or extension thereof, words defined in the Conditions 
having the same meaning in this Standard Security.
The lender was listed as K, and Mr N signed to agree to the statement I understand the 
liabilities and obligations imposed by this Standard Security and the terms of the Conditions 
and the Offer.
Those conditions define Standard Security as the standard security over the Property in 
our favour and the conditions explain we/our/us means lender K. Lender K is defined as [K] 
and any person who has the right now or at any future date to exercise all or any of our 
rights under your Mortgage (including any transferee, assignee or beneficiary of any 
property, assets or funds held by [K] as trustee).Section 54 of the conditions is entitled Our Rights of Transfer and that says:
We may sell or transfer our rights and obligations under your Mortgage, including the 
Debt, and any security for it, to anyone at any time without giving prior notice to you.
If we sell or transfer any or all of our rights, benefits or obligations, your own rights and 
obligations under your Mortgage will stay exactly the same but you will be bound to any 
person or organisation to whom we sell or transfer. That person or organisation will have 
all our rights and powers instead of us including the power to change the Variable Rate.
Upon any such transfer your own rights and obligations under your Mortgage will stay 
exactly the same save that references to the Variable Rate shall be the rate of interest 
determined from time to time by the transferee.
Having considered all this Im satisfied that Mr N signed to agree that hed received the 
conditions, and that he would be bound by them. Im also satisfied that under those 
conditions K was entitled to transfer the mortgage to Engage without needing to seek Mr Ns 
permission and without requiring a new contract and documentation.
The title information shows the charge is still in place securing the debt on the property, and 
the information K sent to Mr N at the time the account was transferred to Engage in March 
2022 said the outstanding debt was over £320,000. A letter from Engage to Mr N in October 
2022 stated that the balance at that time was around £340,000, including arrears and fees of 
just under £70,000. From this it seems Mr N hasnt repaid the debt, and therefore taking into 
account everything Ive set out above, there are no grounds for me to order Engage to 
remove the charge from the property or for me to say Engage shouldnt pursue the debt with 
Mr N.
If Mr N and Mr N1 feel there are legal challenges to be made here then Mr N is free to take 
matters to court or to raise these arguments if Engage takes it to court, but before he does 
so he may wish to seek specialist professional legal advice. As far as the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is concerned, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against Pepper (UK) 
Limited trading as Engage Credit.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman