DRN-2020109
The complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a loan.
What happened
In December 2014, Miss M took out a £25,000 loan with Lloyds over a 72-month term. In 
mid-2017, she told Lloyds she was struggling financially as her hours had been cut at work. 
It found that a repayment plan wasnt affordable for her, but offered a 30-day breathing 
space on her current account plus text alerts. In August 2017, her remaining loan debt was 
passed to another company (which Ill refer to as H). Miss M says that, since then, shes 
been repaying £20 per month.
In early 2020, Miss M complained to Lloyds that it had mis-sold the loan. She explained that 
she has a mental health condition which, as confirmed by her doctor, affects her ability to 
manage her money. She also said shed felt forced to take out the borrowing; her income 
was too risky; and she shouldnt have been lent more than £10,000  as she was charged a 
higher interest rate as a result. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said it hadnt known about her diagnosis at the time of 
sale. But now that it did, it would write off the remaining debt  around £17,000. And it would 
put a block on her account to prevent any further lending for 12 months, which could be 
extended if needed.
Unhappy it hadnt returned all her payments, Miss M referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator was satisfied with how the loan had been sold, given what Lloyds knew at the 
time. She didnt think it was fair to ask it to refund all Miss Ms payments when shed been 
able to use the money shed borrowed. And she thought it had taken appropriate action once 
Miss M told it about her circumstances. 
Miss M didnt accept this view. She was unhappy that Lloyds couldnt confirm what interest 
she would have been charged on a loan under £10,000. She said it knew shed never have 
been able to pay back the loan. And that the borrowing caused severe financial difficulty, 
meaning she had to sell her home and downsize. 
As this didnt change our investigators view, Miss M requested that her complaint be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. So, its now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, so I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached. Ill explain why. 
Ive spoken to Miss M about what happened, and its clear the situation has been very 
upsetting and stressful for her. I want to reassure Miss M that Ive taken the sensitive 
circumstances of her complaint into account. Ultimately, what Im deciding is whether Lloyds 
actions were reasonable in the circumstances  and, if they werent, what Lloyds needs to 
do to redress any resultant loss to Miss M. 
Having considered Miss Ms recollections and Lloyds records of the loan application, Im not 
persuaded Lloyds was  or should have been  aware of her diagnosis at that time. Shes 
told us she didnt disclose her diagnosis to Lloyds until 2020. And based on my contact with 
Miss M about how her diagnosis affected her at the time, I dont think it would have been 
otherwise apparent to Lloyds. So, I dont think it could have reasonably taken Miss Ms 
diagnosis into account when making its lending decision. 
When Miss M did tell Lloyds about her diagnosis, I can see that it reviewed her situation and 
decided to write off all the remaining debt (around £17,000). With Miss Ms agreement, it 
also put in place a 12-month lending restriction  which shes told me shes pleased with. Im 
satisfied this shows Lloyds reacted appropriately and treated Miss M fairly when it became 
aware of her circumstances.
I know Miss M wants Lloyds to return the repayments she made. She says it should have 
known from the start that shed never be able to repay the borrowing  and didnt factor in 
that she might lose her job. But I have to consider what would have been apparent to Lloyds 
at the time. Looking at the income and expenses Miss M disclosed during her application, I 
can see why Lloyds considered the lending affordable. And Im not persuaded that, based on 
the information it had at the time, it should have reasonably anticipated that it would become 
unaffordable due to a change in her circumstances. So Im not persuaded the loan was mis-
sold on this basis either. 
In any event, I agree with our investigator that Lloyds has already offered a fair remedy in 
writing off Miss Ms remaining debt. I know Miss M disagrees. She says that, contrary to 
what our investigator said, she hasnt benefitted from the loan  in fact, its worsened her 
position. For example, shes had to sell and downsized her home. I acknowledge how 
difficult this has been for Miss M, and I dont dispute what shes told us about the impact on 
her. But Ill explain below why I still consider Lloyds response to be fair  given that it wasnt 
aware of her diagnosis until earlier this year (2020). 
If we decide that a loan was mis-sold due to affordability, the financial remedy we normally 
award is a refund of the interest and charges on the borrowing. We generally wouldnt 
expect the lender to also write off or refund the principal borrowing that the customer has 
received and been able to use. 
The notes from the time suggest Miss M intended to use the money for a new car and 
conservatory, various other home improvements, and to pay off her overdraft. Whilst I 
understand she wasnt (for example) able to go ahead with the conservatory, shes told us 
she did use around £7,000 to upgrade her car, and around £6,000 on a new central heating 
system. She also mentioned using some of the money to repay other borrowing. For 
example, I can see she did use it to pay off her £1,000 overdraft  which had a higher 
interest rate than her loan. She says that, in the end, she was using the borrowing to pay 
back the loan. But at the point Lloyds passed the debt on to H, shed only paid back around 
£15,000  compared to the £25,000 shed received. And based on how much was written off 
when she complained, as well as how much shes told us she was paying to H, it seems she 
repaid less than £16,000 in total. So, Miss M received £25,000 from Lloyds  and paid back less than £16,000. That means 
shes been able to use more money than shes paid back. I appreciate the impact the 
monthly repayments had on her. But shes effectively not had to pay any interest on her 
borrowing. And shes received almost £10,000 more than shes paid back. Given this, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to direct Lloyds to refund the money she repaid. 
I note Miss M says she would have paid off the loan by now if Lloyds had lent her less than 
£10,000. But she wouldnt have been able to get the same use from the money, given what 
she received and what shes told us about how she used it. She also says that she would 
have been charged less interest on a smaller loan. That may be true  but it doesnt mean 
Lloyds was wrong to lend her more. Lenders have commercial discretion over the interest 
they charge in exchange for providing the money. The interest rate is generally related to the 
amount of risk the lender perceives. So even if less interest would have been charged on a 
smaller loan, that doesnt mean it cant or shouldnt charge more for higher borrowing. In any 
event, as noted above, I dont consider Miss M to have lost out  as she effectively didnt pay 
any interest on her borrowing. 
Miss M says she didnt contact the bank with a specific amount of borrowing in mind. But the 
notes from the time suggest she did agree to the level of lending based on what she was 
planning on using it for. So overall, Im not persuaded she was forced into taking out the 
lending  or to borrow more than she wanted. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss M and Im very sorry to hear about the impact 
this situation has had on her. Whilst I do acknowledge and empathise with how difficult this 
has been for her, Im not persuaded Lloyds acted incorrectly or unfairly in the circumstances. 
So I dont find that its errors were the cause of this impact. Im therefore not upholding this 
complaint. I hope this explanation helps Miss M understand why and allows her to find 
closure from this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman