DRN-1524073
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) relates to an increase in his credit 
limit in August 2018 which he feels was irresponsible.
What happened
Mr D feels Vanquis were irresponsible in increasing the credit limit on his credit card account 
from £500 to £1,250. He feels that if proper checks had been carried out Vanquis would 
have realised that the increased credit limit was unaffordable for him. 
Vanquis said they undertook a number of checks and based on that and his payment history, 
they concluded the increase was affordable. In addition, they provided Mr D with notice of 
the increase so that he could decline it if he wished. So, they did not accept they had acted 
unfairly.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought Vanquis hadnt done anything 
wrong. Mr D didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of the impact this matter has had upon Mr Ds health and do hope that 
it has improved. 
In the circumstances here, the relevant rules and guidance say that Vanquis was required to 
assess whether Mr D was able to repay any borrowing in a sustainable manner. Those rules 
and guidance are found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit 
sourcebook, along with best practice guidance from other organisations. They require 
businesses to undertake a reasonable assessment of a customers creditworthiness before 
they significantly increase a customers credit limit. And also to consider how any increase 
may adversely impact a customers financial situation, by taking into account;
the information it already has about the customer at the time of the increase.
the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due.
information obtained from a credit reference agency (CRA), and review the 
information on a consumers credit file plus any one of these three:
1) the customers income and financial commitments. 
2) how they have handled their finances in the past.
3) internal credit scoring techniques. 
In this case the credit limit was being increased by £750 which although a relatively modest 
sum, is still more than double the original credit limit, and so it is understandable that Mr D 
views it is a large increase. 
The evidence from Vanquis though, shows that upon review of Mr Ds credit limit they 
carried out a risk assessment which consisted of credit scoring to assess whether the 
increase would be affordable. Searches undertaken by Vanquis at that time also revealed no 
outstanding judgments against him or any defaulted debt being reported on his credit file. 
Vanquis also took account of his payment history which showed hed made all his monthly 
payments except for one in November 2017. Further, it revealed he was generally paying 
much more than the minimum payment required. Vanquis also looked at Mr Ds other credit 
which showed hed got external debt of £3,951 and hadnt made a late or incomplete 
payment in the seven months preceding the increase.
All of that indicates to me that Mr D was managing his finances and wasnt in financial 
difficulty. Just because there is one missed payment, this alone doesnt mean that a person 
is in such difficulty or is unable to afford their credit. As far as I can see Mr D didnt advise 
Vanquis that he was experiencing financial difficulty at that time either, because the first 
contact on that point was after he lost his job which was in March 2019 after the increase in 
limit.
So, I cant say that Vanquis have acted irresponsibly here. What Id expect is for them to 
have performed proportionate checks on the affordability of any increase before they 
increased Mr Ds limit, and based on the information available to me, Im satisfied they did. 
The best practice guidelines say that a card issuer should give 30 days notice of any 
increase and it should offer the customer the option to reject the increase in writing, online or 
by telephone. Ive also looked at the terms and conditions which governed Mr Ds account to 
see if Vanquis acted fairly here. I can see that they state that provided Mr D is given 
adequate notice they were entitled to increase the limit. And here they did give notice by 
email, and I am satisfied that such an email was sent to Mr D. 
Mr D then had a choice to make as to whether he would accept or decline the offer, being 
told that if he wished to decline he should notify Vanquis within 30 days. As Mr D didnt notify 
Vanquis the increase was then applied. Mr D could also have notified Vanquis after that 
point in time that he wished the limit to be reduced if hed so wished. So, I am satisfied that 
Vanquis did perform proportionate checks prior to increasing Mr Ds limit and hasnt been 
irresponsible in lending to him. So, I cant say Vanquis has acted unfairly here and Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman