DRN-3396065
The complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc will not meet his claim for a faulty washer dryer he 
bought using his Virgin Money credit card. Virgin Money is a trading style of  Clydesdale 
Bank Plc.   
What happened
In October 2020 Mr P bought a washer dryer using his Virgin Money credit card. He paid 
nearly £800 and a further £20 for delivery and removal of his old machine. 
Mr P says that, within a few months, the machines drawer dispenser tabs and the plastic 
fascia panel had broken. The machine was still under warranty, so Mr P contacted the 
manufacturer. It said however that parts such as those which were broken were not covered 
by the warranty, since there was a likelihood they would suffer from wear and tear.
Mr P contacted Virgin Money, saying he wanted to pursue a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Virgin Money responded in November 2021. It acknowledged 
that it had taken longer than it should have done to do so and offered Mr P £50 in 
recognition of that. As far as the main element of Mr Ps complaint was concerned, it said it 
needed more evidence about the damage and asked Mr P to let an engineer look at the 
machine. It provided details of a local engineer who would be able to do that for a fee of £78 
including VAT, which it said it would reimburse if the complaint were upheld.
Mr P did not think it was fair that he should have to provide evidence that the machine was 
faulty. He thought the onus was on Virgin Money to show that it was not faulty. He referred 
the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened and issued a preliminary 
assessment. She thought that Virgin Moneys approach had been fair. It was reasonable to 
seek more evidence about the damage and its likely cause. The investigator said;  if [Mr 
P] would like to gather and provide further evidence to support his claim, Id expect Virgin 
Money to consider this. She didnt recommend that Virgin Money do anything more.  
Mr P did not accept the investigators assessment, but he did not provide any further 
evidence either. He explained by reference to relevant legislation why he thought it was for 
Virgin Money to show why it was not liable to him. He asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr P paid for the washer dryer with his credit card and because other relevant 
conditions are met, the effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act is that, if Mr P has a 
claim for breach of contract against the supplier of the machine, he has a like claim against 
Virgin Money. 
Mr Ps contract with the supplier was to be read as including a term that the machine would 
be of satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect and, 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, includes matters such as fitness for purpose, 
durability and freedom from minor defects. 
The manufacturer said that the parts that broke were not covered by its warranty, because 
they were parts that could be easily damaged and were subject to wear and tear. That may 
be so, but the requirement that goods are of satisfactory quality is separate from any 
guarantee or warranty. And the obligation to supply goods that are of satisfactory quality falls 
on the supplier, whereas the warranty in this case was provided by the manufacturer. For 
that reason, the manufacturers response to the warranty claim is, in my view, of limited 
value in determining Mr Ps complaint. 
In court proceedings it is generally for a person who makes an allegation to prove it. In this 
case, it is Mr P who alleges that the machine was not of satisfactory quality. Under the 
Consumer Rights Act, however, there is an assumption that, where goods do not comply 
with the contract within six months of delivery, they did not comply with the contract at 
delivery. Mr P says that this means, because parts of his washer dryer broke within six 
months, Virgin Money should have accepted that that they were faulty at delivery and that 
the investigator should have made a similar finding. 
I am required by our rules to take into account any relevant law in deciding what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint. In this case, relevant law 
includes, for example, some provisions of the Consumer Credit Act and the Consumer 
Rights Act. I am not however bound to follow those provisions in the same way that a court 
would be. 
Further, I am not bound by the same rules of evidence as a court would be. In part, that is 
because the procedures of the Financial Ombudsman Service are more flexible than those 
of a court, but it also reflects the fact that we can make our own enquiries  we are not 
limited to considering arguments and evidence that the parties present. 
Having regard to those considerations, I do not believe it would be fair to conclude that the 
fact that parts were broken within a few months means that the machine was faulty at 
delivery. I think it was clear from the investigators initial assessment that she thought more 
evidence was needed. She was entitled to take that view, and she gave Mr P the opportunity 
to obtain and provide that evidence. I share her view that additional evidence would have 
been helpful. Virgin Money had previously explained how Mr P could obtain further evidence. 
Mr P has said that he should not have had to arrange for further evidence, but that Virgin 
Money should have done so. The washer dryer is however in Mr Ps possession, so he 
would have had to make arrangements with anyone wanting to inspect it in any event. In my 
view, it was entirely reasonable of Virgin Money to pass details of an engineer to him and 
ask him to make the arrangements. Given the relatively low cost involved, I do not think it 
was unreasonable either to ask him to pay for any inspection and agree to reimburse him if a 
fault was found.   My final decision  
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Bank Plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ps complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman