DRN-1541077
 
The complaint
Ms C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2000 when Ms C was applying for a 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Ms C if she couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Cs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Ms Cs needs?
-           Did Halifax give Ms C the information she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Ms 
C is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ms C says she doesn't remember PPI being discussed when she took out her mortgage, 
and that she would've turned it down if it had been offered. I've noted everything Ms C has 
said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Ms C and Halifax 
when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.But I note that Ms C signed the section of the mortgage application form to show that she 
wanted to take out the cover. The cost of the PPI was then included in the mortgage quote 
she received. Ms C then had to fill in a separate application form to apply for the PPI.
So from what I've seen, I don't think I can safely say that Ms C didn't know about the PPI. 
And I've seen nothing to suggest that Halifax didn't give her a choice about buying it. Overall, 
I think Ms C would've known that the PPI was optional.
Halifax advised Ms C to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because:
-           Ms C was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
-           Ms C says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work 
because of sickness or accident. But the policy would've paid out in addition to her employer 
benefits, and would've meant she could use those benefits to cover other expenses. So I 
think she wouldve had some use for the policy, despite her existing arrangements. 
-           Ms C wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely she needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-           The policy cost was included in Ms C's mortgage quote. So I think Ms C would've 
known how much she would be paying for the policy and found it acceptable. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Ms C would have made 
a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Ms C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Ms C would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think she 
would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman