DRN-3440623
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the service he received when he made a claim against Bastion 
Insurance Co. Ltd. (Bastion) under his appliance warranty insurance policy when his 
dishwasher broke down.
In this decision references to Bastion include its representatives and claims administrators.
What happened
Mr T had an insurance policy with Bastion that covers his dishwasher. He bought this in May 
2016 for £637.50. When this broke down, he contacted Bastion on 14 October 2021 to 
arrange for an appointment for it to be fixed. As Mr T was only able to accommodate an 
engineers appointment on a Saturday, an engineer didnt attend until 20 November 2021. 
He wasnt able to repair the dishwasher as it was beyond economical repair.
Mr T has made a number of complaints. He has complained: 
that he was charged around £500 for a new policy without his permission.
that he was initially told that his policy didnt cover the claim
that appointments were cancelled at least five times without letting him know
that he waited in all day on two Saturdays and an engineer didnt arrive
that Bastion didnt offer him the same make and size of dishwasher as a replacement 
until he told Bastion he would bring a complaint to this service
that he has been financially affected by more than £750.
Mr T wants £500 towards a new dishwasher and £250 for the trouble and upset he suffered 
though cancelled appointments, not receiving a call back, and being told he wasnt covered 
under his existing policy.
In relation to Mr Ts complaint that he was charged around £500 for a new policy without 
permission, Bastion has said that this relates to an automatic policy renewal notification sent 
to Mr T. Mr T asked for this renewal to be cancelled and to be refunded, which Bastion did.
In response to Mr Ts complaint that he was told his claim wasnt covered, Bastion has 
explained that Mr Ts annual policy for the year commencing 14 October 2020 expired on 13 
October 2021 and Mr T made his claim on 14 October 2021. He was informed that he wasnt 
covered as the policy hadnt been renewed. However due to an error on his certificate that 
stated that the policy period was 14 October 2020 to 14 October 2021, Bastion says it 
accepted the claim on the old policy as a gesture of goodwill.
In response to Mr Ts complaints about the replacement of his dishwasher, Bastion has 
referred to the terms of Mr Ts policy, and specifically to the following term:
In the event that Your Equipment cannot be repaired We, with the agreement of the 
Insurer upon acceptance of Your claim, will replace Your Equipment. If replacement of 
Your Equipment cannot be reasonably arranged, You will be paid a contribution 
towards the cost of replacing Your Equipment for appliances of a similar size and 
specification up to the Policy Limit. This contribution will be in the form of vouchers for 
an appliance retailer chosen by Us and will be for the price We would have otherwise 
obtained directly from Our chosen supplier.
In its final response to Mr T, Bastion noted the make and size of his current appliance and 
offered him the option of replacement of the same make and size, or another make of the 
same size. As an alternative, it offered him a cash contribution of £250 towards a 
replacement of his choice. It has said that Mr T responded to its final response letter and that 
it paid him £250 in January 2022. 
In relation to Mr Ts complaint about the cancellation of appointments, Bastion has provided 
copies of its appointment records which show the following:
14 October Claim Reported 
15 October Appointment booked for 26 October (Tuesday).  A call was made to Mr T but 
with no answer. A SMS message was sent.
26 October Mr T not present at the appointment and appointment rebooked for 1 
November (Monday).  A call was made to Mr T but with no answer. A SMS 
message was sent.
1 November Mr T contacted engineer as he couldnt make that day, and appointment 
rebooked for 6 November (Saturday).
6 November Appointment cancelled by Bastion as engineer unwell. Rescheduled for 8 
November (Monday) and Mr T informed 
7 November Mr T contacted Bastion to say he was unable to do 8 November or any 
weekday and can only do Saturdays. An appointment was booked and 
confirmed for closest Saturday, 20 November.
20 November Engineer visited Mr T
24 November Bastion received a report from the engineer that the appliance parts required 
were beyond economical repair. Called Mr T to offer replacement  he was 
busy and requested a call after 5 pm. Bastion called after 5 pm and got no 
answer. 
25 November Bastion called Mr T again -  no answer.
26 November Bastion e-mailed Mr T to contact it as it was unable to reach him. Mr T was 
given a choice of replacements. Mr T complained about the value of the claim 
and stated he would not accept the replacements offered and instead 
requested £500 cash.
29 November Bastion sent its final response offering to replace Mr Ts appliance with a 
similar appliance or pay him cash of £250 in accordance with the terms of his 
policy.
Bastions records show that Mr T was either not present, or cancelled, appointments for 26 
October, I November, and 8 November. Bastion cancelled an appointment on 6 November 
because the engineer was unwell. It wasnt until 7 November that Mr T informed Bastion that 
any appointment would need to be on a Saturday.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Bastions handling of his complaints and brought them to this 
service. Our investigators view was that as Bastion had offered Mr T a replacement 
dishwasher of the same make and size as his original dishwasher, and had then offered as 
an alternative a contribution of £250 towards the cost of replacing it, Bastion had not treated 
him unfairly. She also noted that the evidence was that Mr T had cancelled three 
appointments and only one had been cancelled by the engineer due to ill health, so he 
hadnt been treated unfairly in relation to the service provided by Bastion.Mr T doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that his complaints be 
referred to an ombudsman. Im therefore providing a final response from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ts complaints and Ill explain why not.
In relation to Mr Ts complaint about the charge of around £500 for a new policy without his 
permission, Bastion has provided a satisfactory explanation for this administrative error and 
a full refund, so Mr T has not suffered any financial loss. I consider that Bastion has acted 
fairly here.
In relation to Mr Ts complaint about his claim originally being rejected because it didnt fall 
within the policy period, Bastion has agreed to settle the claim because of its mistake in the 
policys expiry date on his certificate. I consider that Bastion has acted fairly here too.
My starting point in considering Mr Ts complaint about the replacement of his dishwasher is 
what his policy says. Ive quoted the relevant term above. The first sentence says what 
Bastion has to do:
 In the event that Your Equipment cannot be repaired We, with the agreement of the 
Insurer upon acceptance of Your claim, will replace Your Equipment.
This is what Bastion offered to do. Bastion offered Mr T an equivalent machine of the same 
make and size. I consider that this fulfilled Bastions obligation under the policy.
Mr T has evidenced that his original dishwasher cost him over £600 over five years ago. In 
response to my request for further information from Bastion, it has said that the cost of 
appliances tends to lower from their cost at manufacture, and the dishwasher it offered Mr T 
was of the same make and similar specification and size (in accordance with the policy) to 
Mr Ts old appliance. 
Mr Ts policy doesnt actually provide for a cash payment if a suitable replacement appliance 
is offered but rejected, as is the case here. So in offering Mr T £250, Bastion has done more 
that the policy requires it to do. Mr T accepted Bastions payment of £250 in January 2022.
According to the policy wording quoted above, it is only if a replacement cant be reasonably 
arranged (which is not the case here) that an alternative option is offered.  This isnt a cash 
alternative. Its in the form of vouchers for a retailer selected by Bastion for the price Bastion 
wouldve paid for a replacement appliance from its own chosen supplier up to a maximum of 
£500. 
So although I appreciate that Mr T is unhappy with the amount Bastion has paid him, he was 
offered a comparable replacement or £250 which Bastion wasnt required to offer him. Mr T 
was given a choice, and I dont think Bastion has treated him unfairly.
In relation to Mr Ts complaint about cancelled appointments, Ive considered Bastions 
records. Of the five scheduled appointments, only one was cancelled by Bastion and that 
was due to the illness of the engineer. On other appointment dates, Mr T was either not 
present or changed them because he was only available on Saturdays, which Bastion wasnt 
told about until 7 November. Whilst I can understand that Mr T may have been frustrated when he wanted to have his dishwasher repaired, I dont consider that the inconvenience of 
a single cancelled appointment by Bastion is sufficient to justify compensation. 
My conclusion is that although Mr T has raised a number of complaints, having considered 
each of these I dont consider that Bastion has acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to 
them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman