DRN-2698524
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of a vehicle bought on finance with First Response 
Finance Limited.
What happened
Miss B took out a hire purchase agreement with First Response for a car in January 2019. 
Miss B told this service that the car made a noise on starting each day, but she put this down 
to being due to cold weather. 
In August 2019 the car broke down on a motorway, and Miss B had it towed to her home, 
then to a garage. An inspection has been completed which has confirmed that the timing 
chain has failed. Its not clear what has caused the failure, or the full extent of repairs 
required, but these are expected to be in the region of £2,400. 
Miss B contacted First Response in September 2019 and again in February 2020 asking 
them to pay for the repairs as she doesnt feel the car should have failed when it did. 
First Response considered Miss Bs complaint but decided not to do anything more. They 
said that as the fault wasnt present at the time the car was supplied to Miss B, then they 
couldnt be held responsible for it. They offered Miss B an interest free loan to assist her with 
50% of the cost of repairs. Unhappy with the response, Miss B brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss B. He thought the car was likely to have been of 
satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied, because it had passed an MOT whilst in Miss 
Bs possession, and the technician that inspected the vehicle said that the timing chain 
wouldnt have been broken at the point that the car was supplied to Miss B. So, he didnt 
think that First Response needed to do anything more.
Miss B asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She doesnt agree with our 
investigator, and she has asked for some further points about the advertising of the car to be 
considered. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021, I made the following 
provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. First Response as the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £7,000. It was 6 years old and 
had travelled approximately 87,000 miles at the time of supply. When a person acquires a 
used car like Miss Bs, its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than that 
of a new or younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The price for the vehicle is lower, and 
this is reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. The chance of encountering a 
serious issue sooner, is higher.
Miss Bs car passed an MOT in the time between her acquiring it and the fault occurring. Our 
investigator thought that this was evidence that the car was of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Miss B. Miss B said that an MOT wouldnt have picked up on an issue with 
the timing chain. 
An MOT is a roadworthiness assessment, and it wouldnt necessarily pick up on faulty parts, 
or parts which are not durable. I might expect a technician completing an MOT to discuss an 
abnormal noise with Miss B if one were apparent, but I wouldnt expect the MOT to fail on 
this basis. So, Im not persuaded that the MOT pass necessarily means the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss B. 
Miss B said that the car made a noise on starting soon after she acquired it, and that she put 
this down to being due to cold weather. The technician that inspected Miss Bs car noted that 
before the timing chain failed, it likely would have rattled. Our investigator said there was no 
evidence that the noise was linked to the subsequent fault. I think its likely that the noise 
Miss B described was an indication that there was a potential problem with the timing chain, 
which did then eventually fail. 
Having said that, if the noise were occurring on a daily basis shortly after purchase, I would 
have expected Miss B to have raised this with the dealership or to have had the vehicle 
inspected. Not least if it carried on into the warmer summer months if shed previously put it 
down to cold weather.
So, whilst I think that any noise from the vehicle may have been linked to the subsequent 
failure of the timing chain, Im not persuaded that this was evident at the time that the car 
was supplied to Miss B. 
Satisfactory quality also includes an element of durability. That is, the components of the car 
can be expected to function without any significant issue or problem for a reasonable period 
of time. 
In response to our investigators view, Miss B has raised some concerns with the advertised 
mileage of her vehicle, and the duration of the MOT provided by the selling dealership. Miss 
B has provided evidence showing that the vehicle underwent an MOT in June 2018 and the 
recorded mileage at the time was 87,936, but the car was sold to her in January 2019 with 
an advertised mileage of 87,000. 
I havent seen any evidence that the mileage of the vehicle has been tampered with, and I 
think its unlikely that its been altered by around 1,000 miles, as the difference is unlikely to 
provide any financial gain when selling the car. It seems more likely, for example, that the 
mileage has been rounded for the finance paperwork or has been entered incorrectly at the MOT. In any event, I dont think that the vehicle having travelled around 88,000 miles instead 
of 87,000 miles would have affected Miss Bs decision to purchase it. 
If the mileage recorded at the MOT in June 2018 was correct, I havent seen anything to 
show that the car covered significant additional mileage before it was supplied to Miss B. 
and, if the difference between the mileage on the agreement and that on the odometer was 
significant, I would have expected Miss B to have raised this at the time. 
Miss B says she thinks she travelled around 3,500 miles whilst owning the car given the 
discrepancies in the mileage record, rather than the 6,000 or so miles that has been 
suggested. I think that either way, this would be considered a reasonable period of time for a 
car which was six years old (and had travelled around 87,000 miles) when it was supplied. 
I think, having covered 93,000 miles, Miss Bs car was around the age when a reasonable 
person might start to expect that some relatively serious repairs may be needed. As a result, 
I find there was no durability issue with the car when it was supplied.
Miss B says that the dealership advertises all of its vehicles as having a full MOT, and 
therefore the car should have been provided to her with 12 months MOT rather than the six 
months that it did have. There is uncertainty in what is meant by a full MOT and whether 
this means a 12-month MOT, or simply that the car has passed its most recent MOT. But, if 
this were a deciding factor in Miss Bs purchase of the vehicle, I would have expected her to 
have raised it with the dealership prior to, or shortly after purchase. 
The vehicle did pass its MOT after Miss B purchased it, so I dont think that the length of 
MOT at purchase would have altered the possibility of Miss B experiencing a fault with the 
car. 
I find that, on the balance of probabilities, it is more likely than not that Miss Bs car was of 
satisfactory quality at the time that it was supplied. Whilst what has happened is unfortunate, 
it is the risk of owning an older and higher mileage second-hand car like this one. I 
appreciate that having a car that suddenly fails is a stressful, and may be an expensive, 
experience for Miss B, but that doesnt mean that First Response are responsible for the 
cost of repairs. 
First Response responded to my provisional decision to say they had no further information 
to disclose. 
Miss B responded to my provisional decision. In summary, she says that the noise was 
apparent at the time of purchase, but it only lasted 2-3 seconds and she hadnt owned a 
diesel before, so she didnt know what it was. The inspector told her that the noise wouldve 
been there at the point of sale. In addition, the garage reduced the price of the car for a 
quick sale, leading Miss B to believe that they knew there was a timing chain issue and that 
it would fail. 
Miss B also says that she shouldnt have needed to check the mileage, it was incorrect so 
was misold, and the car shouldve had a 12 month MOT. 
Miss B says that she cant afford to pay the monthly payments and repair the vehicle, so she 
needs some assistance with these costs.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything Miss B has said, but it doesnt change the provisional findings 
that I made. If the vehicle were making a noise shortly after Miss B acquired it, I still think 
that Miss B was able to use the vehicle without fault for a reasonable period of time, given 
the age and mileage of the vehicle. Having travelled 93,000 miles at the time of the fault, I 
think that Miss Bs car was of the age when a reasonable person might expect some 
relatively serious repairs would be needed. On the balance of probabilities, I find that Miss 
Bs car was of satisfactory quality at the time that it was supplied. 
Im not persuaded that the evidence provided by Miss B does show that the vehicle should 
have had a 12 month MOT, and as I set out in my provisional decision, even if it did I dont 
think a longer MOT period at purchase would have altered the possibility of Miss B 
experiencing the fault that she did. 
Ive seen no evidence that the mileage of Miss Bs vehicle has been tampered with, or that it 
travelled significant additional mileage than what was recorded at the June 2018 MOT 
before it was supplied to Miss B. I find that, on the balance of probabilities, its more likely 
than not that any discrepancy in the mileage was as a result of human error at either the 
MOT record or the inception of the finance paperwork. For the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision I dont think the vehicle having travelled around 88,000 miles would 
have affected Miss Bs decision to purchase it. And, if it had travelled significantly more than 
this, I wouldve expected Miss B to have raised this at the time. 
I appreciate that having a car that suddenly fails can be an expensive and stressful 
experience. Miss B may wish to discuss her options with First Response, and whether they 
are still able to offer her an interest free loan for part of the repair costs to assist her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman