DRN-3781574
The complaint
Mr W complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund him the amount he 
paid for a holiday that was impacted by Covid-19 using his NatWest chargecard.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr W booked a package holiday, for him and three other members of his 
family to Dubai, with a company Ill refer to as B. The holiday was for 10 nights from 17 
March to 27 March 2020. Mr W used his NatWest chargecard and paid a £3,000 deposit on 
20 January 2020 and then a further £22,126.79 on 27 January 2020. In total, the holiday 
cost £25,126.79.
Mr W has provided evidence to show on 25 March 2020, he received an email from B which 
said the return flight had been cancelled due to Covid-19  the Dubai government ceased 
inbound and outbound flights on 24 March 2020. B said they didnt have any flights until 26 
April 2020 and as Mr W needed to return home sooner for various reasons, Mr W was 
advised to contact the British Embassy in Dubai for a repatriation flight for him and his family 
members which departed on 5 April 2020 - Mr Ws bank statement shows this cost around 
£10,000. As a result of departing later than originally planned, Mr W and his family stayed a 
further 10 nights at a hotel and Mr W says he had to pay for kennel accommodation for his 
dog for the additional time they were in Dubai. 
In April 2020, B provided Mr W a refund of £3,843 and they said this was to cover the 
cancelled return flights and cost of the airport transfer that didnt happen as a result of the 
cancelled return flight. 
Mr W has told us his travel insurance company gave him £5,785 for his and his wifes 
repatriation flights, additional hotel accommodation costs and additional kennel costs. But Mr 
W says the whole holiday was ruined and wants the full cost of the holiday refunded. Mr W 
says he feels the holiday was ruined because within two days of arriving at the hotel, most of 
the facilities were shut and only 1 out of the 17 restaurants at the hotel was open. Mr W says 
this was because the government in Dubai had closed all swimming pools and beaches due 
to Covid-19. Mr W says he and his family were only able to use the swimming pool and 
beach for one day and the advice at the time from the hotel was that Mr W and his family 
had to remain in their rooms and order room service  Mr W says the hotel confirmed they 
were following government guidelines at the time. 
Mr W says the hotel had a lot of facilities such as bars, a gym, tennis courts and unlimited 
access to a water park  none of which was available during the time he was there as a 
result of the Covid-19 lockdown in place. Mr W doesnt think its fair he wasnt able to use the 
hotel services or other facilities that were offered when he booked the holiday with B.
Mr W says he didnt know that within the first few days of arriving in Dubai, the government 
there would announce a total lockdown. Mr W says because of this, he wants a refund of the 
full cost of the holiday as he says there was a loss of enjoyment, inconvenience and 
disappointment and out of pocket expenses.
Mr W has provided us with an email he sent to NatWest on 25 June 2020 where he set out 
the cost he incurred which was for hotel accommodation, repatriation flights and also 
additional dog kennel costs a result of staying longer in Dubai than planned. Mr W has also 
provided us with two acknowledgement emails he received from NatWest on 29 June 2020  
one was where NatWest thanked Mr W for getting in touch about his dispute with B for the 
amounts of £3,000 (the deposit) and £22,126.79 (the remaining balance) and asked him for 
further information about his dispute. And the other acknowledgment sent on the same day 
included the same initial line as the first email, but NatWest let him know that £3,483 had 
been refunded in April 2020. 
Later on, NatWest emailed Mr W setting out what they believed he was claiming for and 
confirmed the total amount to be £9,296.43. In this email, they asked Mr W to confirm if he 
was happy with their calculations and Mr W agreed to this amount on the same day. Mr W 
asked NatWest to proceed with his chargeback claim with B.
NatWest did so and in the meantime, they temporarily credited Mr Ws account with the 
£9,296.43, pending the outcome of the claim. However, NatWest said B contested the 
chargeback on 29 September 2020 and the claim was taken to pre-arbitration stage where 
Mastercard rejected it, confirming Mr W had already received a refund for the cancelled 
return flight. So, NatWest re-debited the £9,296.43 from Mr Ws account. Mr W contacted 
NatWest again and said he wasnt claiming for just the £9,296.43, hed previously claimed 
for the total cost of the holiday. 
NatWest say they received contact from Mr W in December 2020, where he said he was 
looking to gain a full refund of the holiday plus additional losses suffered. But NatWest say 
they were only able to raise one chargeback claim per transaction and that they did this. In 
relation to Mr Ws concerns that he and his family were unable to use the services and 
facilities at the hotel due to them being closed, NatWest said this would be more a quality of 
service claim for which there is no dispute under the Mastercard rules.
In relation to Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), NatWest said as Mr W 
paid for the holiday using his chargecard, this isnt covered by the CCA.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ws concerns. Ultimately, she came to the following 
conclusions:
The three letters Mr W sent to NatWest on 4 April 2020, 5 June 2020 and 24 
June 2020 didnt make clear exactly what Mr W was claiming for nor the amount 
he was claiming for.
Mr W responded to NatWests email agreeing with their calculation of £9,296.43 
and confirmed that was the amount he was claiming for. B defended the 
chargeback claim and said theyd refunded Mr W the £3,843 that they 
apportioned to the cancelled return flights and transfer to the airport Mr W didnt 
receive. 
NatWest took the case to arbitration where MasterCard made the final decision 
on the matter and they said the chargeback was invalid for compensation costs. 
Overall, NatWest acted reasonably as they raised a chargeback claim as Mr W 
requested.
Mr W says he initially raised a claim for the full holiday amount and not just the 
partial amount. Under the Mastercard rules, Mr W would have needed to have 
raised a claim 120 days from when the services ceased  as the last date Mr W 
expected to receive the service he paid for from B was 26 March 2020, this 
meant he had until 24 July 2020 to raise a claim for the full cost of the holiday, as this wasnt what Mr W originally confirmed to NatWest that his claim was for.
It was, in fact, late August 2020 where Mr W raised to NatWest that he wanted to 
make a claim for the whole holiday and also for loss of enjoyment, 
inconvenience and disappointment, and not in December 2020 like NatWest 
suggested  our Investigator said this was when Mr W chased NatWest for a 
response. 
As the claim for the full holiday amount was raised outside of the 120 days, our 
Investigator didnt think NatWest could have done anything more in respect of 
the chargeback claim. NatWest were only able to attempt one chargeback per 
transaction, which they did, so they didnt do anything wrong.
As Mr W paid using his NatWest chargecard, he didnt have protection under 
Section 75 of the CCA.
Overall, NatWest didnt do anything wrong in the handling of Mr Ws chargeback 
claim.
Mr W disagreed with our Investigators view and acknowledged that while B refunded him for 
the cancelled return flight, he didnt receive anything for the facilities and services at the 
hotel and surrounding area which were closed, as a result of the lockdown that was 
introduced in Dubai because of Covid-19. Mr W also reiterated he received confirmation 
emails on 29 June 2020 from NatWest thanking him for getting in touch about his dispute for 
the amount of £3,000 and £22,126.79 - so this shows he did claim the full amount within the 
right timeframe. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to learn of the passing of Mr Ws son and I can appreciate the upset and 
disappointment caused to Mr W and his family, especially as Mr W described this holiday as 
a once in a lifetime holiday.
Chargeback
In certain circumstances, a card issuer can attempt to claim a refund of a payment, or part of 
it, under the dispute resolution process operated by the card scheme to which the card 
belongs, in this case, Mastercard. Disputing a payment in this way is usually known as a 
chargeback. 
Chargebacks must adhere to rules set by the card scheme, which include rules about what 
kind of disputes can be raised and the time limits in which disputes must be brought. The 
process is not guaranteed to succeed and can be contested by the other side to the dispute. 
There are various levels of escalation or appeal for disputes within the scheme. I would 
expect the card issuer to attempt a chargeback as a matter of good practice, so long as the 
chargeback would meet the criteria set out by the card scheme and would have a 
reasonable prospect of succeeding.
Ive seen a copy of the email Mr W received from B on 25 March 2020 confirming that due to 
the current situation (the Covid-19 pandemic), Mr Ws return flight was cancelled. So, Im 
satisfied that part of the service Mr W paid for, the return flight, wasnt supplied.
Next, Ill go on to consider whether NatWest handled Mr Ws claim for a refund fairly under 
the chargeback rules. Mr W contacted NatWest on 8 April 2020 and said he and his family had to stay a further 10 
nights in hotels, pay for an alternative flight back home and also pay for additional kennel 
accommodation for his dog. So, Mr W asked for a claim to be made and offered to send the 
necessary receipts for him to be able to claim for reimbursements. Mr W wrote to NatWest 
once more on 25 June 2020 and said he was claiming for all the non-refundable costs which 
he listed as 10 additional nights at a hotel accommodation, the new return flights he paid for 
as well as the dog kennel costs. There was no mention in the emails about claiming the full 
cost of the holiday as a result of not receiving the services he paid for.
NatWest responded to Mr W on 10 August 2020 and set out their understanding of the costs 
alongside each of the elements Mr W said he was claiming for  the hotel accommodation, 
the new return flights and the kennel costs. NatWest explained they converted the amounts 
into GBP and said that after doing this, the total amount Mr W seemed to be disputing was 
£9,296.43. NatWest also said if Mr W didnt agree with their calculations, to confirm the 
exact amount he was looking to dispute. Mr W responded to NatWests email on the same 
day confirming the amount they came to of £9,296.43 was correct and he asked them to 
proceed with his claim. Based on this confirmation, NatWest attempted a chargeback for this 
amount from B and I think it was fair for them to do this. In the meantime, NatWest 
temporarily credited Mr Ws account with this amount which was also fair for them to do. 
Mr W disagrees that he made a chargeback claim for just this partial amount and says it was 
always for the full amount of the holiday due to the fact that he and his family werent able to 
use a lot of the services offered at the hotel and surrounding areas, as a result of the Covid-
19 lockdown. 
Mr W refers to acknowledgment emails he received from NatWest on 29 June 2020 as 
confirmation he claimed for a full refund of the holiday as the email said thank you for 
getting in touch and telling us about your dispute with [Bs full name] for the amount of 
£3,000 and £22,126.79. One email then asks for further information to be supplied and the 
other lets Mr W know a total sum of £3,843 was refunded to his account in April 2020. I 
realise that the first part of both emails acknowledge the total sum Mr W has told NatWest 
hes disputing. But the clarification email NatWest received from Mr W on 10 August 2020, 
which was after these acknowledgement emails, confirmed exactly what Mr W was claiming 
for which was the hotel accommodation, the new return flights and the kennel costs which 
Mr W confirmed with NatWest to be £9,296.43. Given Mr W asked NatWest to proceed with 
his claim on this confirmation, I dont think it was wrong for them to raise a chargeback claim 
for this amount as they were instructed to do so by Mr W.
When NatWest raised the chargeback for this amount, it was defended by B as they said 
they had already refunded Mr W for the amount they apportioned to the cancelled return 
flight for Mr W and his family members. I havent seen a breakdown of exactly how much 
each element of the package holiday cost, so in the absence of any other evidence, Ive 
relied on the calculations B have provided which was the cancelled return flight was £948 
per person (there were four people in total) plus £50 airport transfer fee on the original date 
of departure (before the cancelled flight), totalling £3,843. So, NatWest re-debited Mr Ws 
account of the £9,296.43 that they temporarily credited his account with when they raised a 
chargeback claim, which I think was fair. 
NatWest then took the case to arbitration stage which is where the card issuer, NatWest, 
asked the card scheme, in Mr Ws case Mastercard, to decide the outcome of the claim  in 
doing this, the card scheme will then look at both sides submissions and decide who wins 
based on the chargeback rules. In Mr Ws case, Mastercard found in Bs favour  they said B 
had refunded Mr W £3,843 for the cancelled return flight and the airport transfer that didnt go ahead. Mastercard also added that the chargeback dispute wasnt valid for compensation 
costs. With all this in mind, I think NatWest acted fairly in handling Mr Ws chargeback claim.
I note Mr W had concerns about the standard of the holiday, specifically that he and his 
family werent able to use the facilities and other services he paid for and that were 
advertised, as they were closed. From the evidence available to me, the first time Mr W 
raised concerns about the services he didnt receive at the hotel and surrounding areas due 
to them being shut as a result of Covid-19 was towards the end of August 2020 - Mr W 
emailed NatWest and said hed like to make a claim for loss of value, loss of enjoyment 
inconvenience and disappointment and also out of pocket expenses. I appreciate these 
concerns, but NatWest are only able to raise one chargeback claim per transaction. And 
NatWest raised a chargeback claim for the £9,296.43 as per Mr Ws instructions. So, I dont 
think NatWest did anything wrong in not raising another chargeback claim for remaining cost 
of the holiday due to the standard of the holiday.
Section 75
Section 75 provides that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or
a misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. Theres no guarantee that claims
will be successful.
NatWest has confirmed and provided evidence to show Mr W paid for the holiday using his 
chargecard. Unfortunately, the protection offered by the CCA doesnt apply to chargecards. I 
appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr W, but I dont think it was unfair for 
NatWest to not consider a Section 75 claim.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman