DRN-3980484
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted her a 
conditional sale agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2016, Mrs B acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mrs B was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £575.33, having paid a 
deposit of £1,000. The total repayable under the agreement was £39,944.47.
Mrs B says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable and that she had a poor credit situation. 
She also said that taking the finance worsened her already difficult financial situation. 
Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included 
obtaining proof of income and looking at her credit history. 
Mrs B fell into arrears with her payments and it was therefore necessary for her to agree 
various payment plans with Moneybarn. The agreement was settled in full in May 2022. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mrs B.
Moneybarn didnt agree and has asked to see copies of Mrs Bs bank statements from 
before she took out the agreement. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Dealing first with Moneybarns request to see copies of the consumers bank statements, as 
our adjudicator has explained and Moneybarn will be aware, we do not routinely disclose 
these. I am also satisfied that bank statements Ive seen from the time immediately before 
the agreement have been sufficient to gain a good idea of Mrs Bs financial situation at the 
time. I am not aware of a particular reason why it would be necessary to make an exception 
in this complaint, given that we have seen enough to be able to determine what 
proportionate checks would have shown Moneybarn at the time of the application process 
for the agreement.  
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. Ive therefore relied on a 
copy of the credit file supplied by Mrs B, which I think is likely to give a fair indication of what 
Moneybarn would have seen at the time. Our adjudicator has already set out in some detail 
evidence from Mrs Bs own credit report demonstrating that in the year leading up to her 
applying for the agreement, Mrs B was missing payments on at least two accounts, had 
missed payments to a utility provider and had an arrangement to pay in place for a further 
account. Ive also noted that by April 2016 Mrs B had was three months behind with her 
mortgage. In addition, she had a default registered against her credit file in February 2016 
and another one in August 2015. She also had a county court judgment registered against 
her 41 months before the agreement. She also had an arrangement to pay in relation to her 
bank account and had missed a payment to her water utility provider as recently as 
May 2016. Generally, Ive seen there was a pattern of consistently missing payments with 
other credit, with one set of missed payments running from July 2015 to July 2016 and 
another from September 2015 to May 2016. 
I think all this shows that by the time Mrs B applied for the finance, she was already 
financially stretched. It therefore would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a 
more thorough understanding of her financial circumstances before lending. I say this 
particularly taking into account that the agreement Mrs B was taking on was for five years 
and at relatively high monthly payment level.
Whilst Ive seen that Moneybarn used payslip evidence from Mrs B to establish that she was 
receiving a monthly income (excluding bonus) of around £2,550 each month, plus a state 
benefit payment, I dont think this in itself would give a full enough picture of her financial 
circumstances. Moneybarn didnt ask Mrs B about their expenditure. Although it did 
complete a credit check, this on its own wont have indicated what Mrs Bs regular living 
expenses were. Without knowing more about her living costs and regular committed 
expenditure, Moneybarn wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the 
agreement was affordable or not. I therefore dont think it did enough to complete 
proportionate checks. 
Moneybarn says it used a statistical calculation to work out Mrs Bs non-discretionary 
spending. But from what Ive seen the credit the credit check Moneybarn completed was 
likely to have shown that Mrs B was experiencing difficulty managing her credit. In those 
circumstances I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate to have taken steps 
to gain a good understanding of Mrs Bs specific financial circumstances, rather than relying 
on an estimate. I say this especially given that there were very strong indicators that in the 
previous twelve months she had been struggling to meet credit payments. It follows that it 
would also have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have found out more about Mrs Bs 
other committed expenditure, including her monthly living costs. I cant be sure exactly what 
Moneybarn would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it 
would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Mrs Bs bank 
statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed two months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These show 
that Mrs B was making frequent use of her overdraft to the extent of around £600, and so 
was incurring overdraft charges. She was also having direct debits and standing orders 
returned regularly. I agree that, taking into account her monthly outgoings and credit 
commitments, Mrs B likely had some disposable income of around £350, but this wouldnt be 
enough to meet the relatively high payment required under the agreement. I also think its 
concerning that Mrs B was taking on a large, long-term credit commitment when her 
exposure to credit was so substantial with strong evidence of ongoing financial difficulty. Any 
disposable income Mrs B had was going to be against a background of a steadily 
deteriorating financial situation. I think all of this demonstrates that Mrs B didnt have enough 
disposable income to afford the additional borrowing. I therefore agree that Moneybarn didnt 
act fairly by approving the finance.Putting things right  what Moneybarn needs to do
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mrs B should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £12,350. Anything Mrs B has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mrs Bs complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
Refund any payments Mrs B has made in excess of £12,350, representing the 
original cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mrs B asks for one.
My final decision
Your text here I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to put things right 
in the manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman