DRN-3278897
The complaint
D, a limited company, is unhappy with the service it received from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
surrounding a request for a payment holiday to be applied to its business loan account.
What happened
In March 2020, D contacted Barclays and explained that it was experiencing unforeseen 
financial difficulty because of the Covid-19 pandemic that was emerging globally at that time. 
This resulted in D applying first for a recovery loan, which was declined, and then for a six-
month capital repayment holiday (CRH) which was approved in late April 2020 and should 
have come into effect in time for Ds May 2020 loan repayment.
However, Barclays didnt apply the CRH and continued to administer the loan account as it 
had been doing, including requesting monthly payments by direct debit at the normal 
repayment amount which were rejected because D didnt have the funds to meet these 
payment requests. 
D only discovered that the CRH hadnt been applied correctly when it contacted Barclays to 
request an extension of that CRH, at which time D was told that its account was with 
Barclays collections and recoveries team on the basis on non-payment. D wasnt happy 
about this, so it raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Ds complaint. It accepted that the CRH hadnt been put into place as it 
should have been and agreed to retrospectively apply a three-month CRH to cover the 
months of May, June, and July 2020, but which meant that the account was still considered 
as being in significant arrears. Barclays also apologised to D and offered to make a payment 
of £150 to D as compensation for any trouble that D might have incurred.
D wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, and so referred its complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the response to Ds complaint 
the Barclays had already issued, as well as how Barclays had administered Ds account 
since May 2020, already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had 
happened.
D remained dissatisfied, so its complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its notable that D has made several detailed submissions to this service. Id like to thank D 
for these submissions, and I hope D doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont be 
responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I feel are the key aspects of 
Ds complaint, in line with this services role as an informal dispute resolution service.
As such, if D notes that I havent responded to a particular point that its raised, it shouldnt 
be taken from this that I havent read and considered that point. Instead, it should be taken 
that I have read and considered that point, but that I dont feel that its necessary to address 
that point directly to arrive at what I feel is a fair outcome. 
Barclays dont dispute that the CRH that D applied for wasnt set up in the first instance 
when it should have been. D maintain that they applied for the CRH in March 2020, and that 
as such any retrospective setting up of the CRH  as Barclays later did  should have been 
done to cover the April 2020 loan repayment that D wasnt able to make.
However, it's evident that while D did contact Barclays in March 2020, its also evident that 
this initial contact resulted in D applying to Barclays for a recovery loan. But this application 
was declined, and further discussions between D and Barclays took place which then 
resulted in D applying for a CRH in early April 2020.
At around the time that D was applying for this CRH, a monthly loan repayment scheduled 
for 7 April 2020 became due and went unpaid due to lack of funds. This meant that when Ds 
application for a CRH was approved by Barclays towards the end of April, the next payment 
scheduled on the account was the May 2020 payment, and Ds account was already 
considered as being in arrears by Barclays because of the missed April 2020 payment.
Im aware that D feels that the CRH should have been backdated to cover the April 2020 
payment, given that it first approached Barclays in March 2020. This seem reasonable to 
me, and given that D sought assistance from Barclays in March 2020, it seems fair, given 
that Ds first application for financial assistance was declined, that any subsequent 
application for a different form of financial assistance should have been backdated to begin 
from when D first reached out to Barclays for help and be first applied to the next scheduled 
loan repayment  which in this instance would have been April 2020.
However, the CRH which D was ultimately approved for was an agreement whereby D 
would only have to make reduced monthly payments sufficient to clear the interest that was 
being applied to the account on a monthly basis and wouldnt be required to pay the capital 
balance portion of the normal monthly repayment. This meant that D would have had to 
make monthly payments of approximately £250 (the monthly interest) rather than its full 
normal monthly payments of approximately £840.
And while its correct that Barclays didnt then apply the CRH in the first instance when it 
should have done, and that this resulted in Barclays attempting to take monthly payments of 
£840 rather than the interest only payments of £250 that they should have applied for, its 
evident from Ds business current account statements that D didnt maintain sufficient funds 
in its account to have paid the lower monthly payment that would have been due in April, 
May, and June 2020, had those payments been applied for at the lower CRH rate.
This means that if Barclays had set up the CRH and backdated it to cover the April 2020 
payment, D wouldnt have made that reduced payment because there werent sufficient 
funds in its account at that time for it to have done so. And this in turn means that D would 
have broken the terms of the CRH by not making the first scheduled payment in April 2020 
or the next two monthly CRH payments.
So, while I acknowledge that Barclays didnt set up the CRH when it first should have done, I 
find it very difficult to conclude that Ds credit file has been adversely impacted as a result. 
This is because D didnt maintain sufficient funds in its account to have met the lower 
payments required by the CRH and as such Im satisfied that D would have incurred adverse 
credit file reporting regardless of whether the CRH had been set up and backdated as D 
would have liked.It's also notable that when Barclays did apply for the incorrect payment amount of £840 in 
May 2020, and when this payment was declined, Barclays then wrote to D and explained 
that an attempted payment for £840 had been unsuccessful and asked D to contact them. 
Similar letters from Barclays were issued by Barclays to D following later unsuccessful 
payment attempts, but D didnt contact Barclays again until September 2020.
As such it appears that, as well as not ensuring that there would have been sufficient funds 
to meet the payments required by the CRH available in its account, D also wasnt actively 
monitoring its account or the correspondence that was being received from Barclays as per 
its ongoing responsibilities as an account holder, and I feel that this also contributed to how 
events here transpired.
Additionally, while Barclays havent administered Ds account as they should have done, it 
seems that D has benefitted from this in some regards. For instance, because D didnt have 
sufficient funds available to have covered the April, May, and June CRH payments, D would 
have been effectively three months in arrears in June 2020.
It isnt unusual, when a business loan reaches such a stage of arrears, for the lender to 
commence default proceedings on the account, and Barclays have confirmed that had they 
administered this account as they should have done, that they consider it to be highly likely 
that default proceedings against D would have commenced and that Ds account would have 
been defaulted.
Ultimately, while Barclays did make an error by not setting up the CRH when it first should 
have done, Im satisfied that D wouldnt have met the terms of that CRH and would have 
broken the agreement by not being able to make the agreed CRH payments due in April, 
May, and June. 
Furthermore, Im also satisfied that had this happened, D would have been subject to more 
rigorous collections and recoveries action from Barclays that has actually been the case, and 
which hasnt been the case because of Barclays not administering this account as they 
should have done and because of Barclays providing D with a degree of leeway having 
recognised that they hadnt set up the CRH correctly in the first instance.
All of which means that I dont feel that D has been adversely impacted by what has 
happened here in the way which D contends, and I do feel that Barclays response to Ds 
complaint, including the offer of £150 compensation to D, already represents a fair and 
reasonable resolution to what has taken place here. And it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding Ds complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome D was wating, but I hope it will understand, given all that 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman