DRN-3551626
The complaint
Ms K complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited dealt with her in 
respect of her attempts to recover money she paid for flights using her American Express 
credit card.
What happened
Ms K bought return flight tickets with her American Express credit card. Her trip was due to 
take place in May 2020. A couple of weeks after her purchase, concerns over the Covid-19 
pandemic prompted Ms K to contact B, the company shed booked with. She has medical 
conditions that made her clinically vulnerable, and because of this it was unsafe for her to 
travel. While awaiting Bs response, Ms K asked American Express to attempt to recover the 
money shed paid, by means of chargeback.
American Express provided a temporary credit to Ms Ks account while it looked into 
matters. B subsequently told Ms K that the airline (F) would only approve a full refund if it 
cancelled the flight. B said Ms K could wait to see if F cancelled the flight, but that if Ms K 
herself cancelled, her tickets were not refundable. However, B did ask Ms K to send medical 
evidence to see whether F would allow an exception to its usual policy. She duly did so.
In the meantime, American Express received a response to its chargeback claim. The 
response supported what B had already told Ms K  that the flights shed booked were non-
refundable and only allowed a date change. As at that time the flights were scheduled to go 
ahead and neither party had cancelled, American Express closed the claim.
Ms K asked American Express to reopen the claim. She said she hadnt been offered a 
change of date. By this time, the flight departure date had already passed. Noting that shed 
been unable to fly or secure a refund, Ms K felt this amounted to a breach of contract. She 
sought to recover her money from American Express.
B later contacted Ms K to say that F had agreed to refund her. But it was unable to process 
the refund while the chargeback claim was ongoing. Ms K says she had difficulty getting 
confirmation from American Express that the claim had been withdrawn, which delayed her 
refund. And she expressed concern about adverse payment information American Express 
had recorded on her credit file in relation to the account balance.
Our investigator found that Bs booking terms were sufficiently clear and were consistent 
with what B told Ms K  and the reasons accepted by American Express in response to the 
chargeback claim. She didnt think there was evidence of a breach of contract, or that the 
circumstances obliged B to provide a refund. The investigator was further satisfied with the 
approach American Express took to dealing with Ms Ks claim. She felt it had handled things 
in a timely way, that for the most part it had responded to Ms Ks enquiries when she made 
them, and that it had provided suitable reasons as to why the claim was unsuccessful.
The investigator also found that American Express had sent Ms K four letters regarding the 
closure of the claim, in response to her requests. She didnt find any reason why Ms K 
should not have received this correspondence. She also noted that Ms K had now received 
the refund in question. But she did find American Express had failed to return one of Ms Ks 
calls, and that it could have provided a better service in terms of explaining the claim closure 
during its conversations with her. Overall, the investigator considered the shortcomings in 
American Expresss service warranted a modest compensation payment of £50.
Ms K remains unhappy with the complaint outcome and has asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand Ms Ks concern over the risks she faced in flying during the pandemic, and 
why she couldnt take the trip shed arranged. But as the investigator found, that in itself 
didnt give grounds for a successful chargeback. At the time she raised it, Ms Ks flights were 
still scheduled to go ahead, and her booking terms didnt make provision for a refund even if 
she was medically vulnerable. With this in mind, although I appreciate Ms K feels that there 
should have been some leeway in the arrangements, her claim was always likely to be 
defended on this basis.
Noting what American Express later said, I think theres some third party evidence to 
suggest that by the time the flights were due to take place, Fs planes were grounded  quite 
likely due to the pandemic. Historical flight data websites indicate that through April and May 
2020 F didnt operate any flights under the flight numbers Ms K had booked. These flights 
usually operated three or four times a week. So that evidence tends to support Ms Ks 
contention that F eventually cancelled the flights. That probably would have entitled Ms K to 
a refund or other form of financial accommodation, such as vouchers. It also explains why B 
ultimately was able to secure her a refund.
But that wasnt the situation when Ms K sought to raise the chargeback, and it wouldnt be 
fair to criticise American Express in this respect. Nor do I think it necessarily follows that 
when Ms K contacted American Express again in May and June 2020, its response was 
inappropriate. The fact the flights didnt go ahead would presumably have triggered the 
refund arrangements B set out in its Coronavirus email to Ms K of 7 April 2020. That said:
My flight has been cancelled
If your flight has been cancelled, then the process will be initiated by us. You do not 
need to take any action for this.
How does the process work?
1. We receive a cancellation notice from the airline
2. We check with the airline to see if you are eligible for a refund
3. If applicable, we will request the refund amount for you
4. You will receive an email from us regarding the status
5. The airline pays the refund amount to us
6. We will pay the refund amount to you
Due to the extreme pressure currently put on airlines and us caused by the 
Coronavirus, it can take a long time before you get an update on this as we are 
dependent on each airlines delays in processing refunds. We kindly ask you not to 
contact us as we will be processing all cancellations without need for additional 
information from you. We deeply regret the inconvenience and appreciate your 
patience and cooperation.Of course, I realise Ms K wanted her refund as soon as possible. But even if American 
Express had instigated a further claim on her behalf, it seems to me likely that B would have 
provided a similar response; that is, that it would be refunding Ms K when it received 
payment from F. So pursuing the chargeback was unlikely to have resulted in Ms K receiving 
her refund any earlier than she did.
This also goes some way towards explaining why there was a delay when B told Ms K that it 
was ready to refund her, but that she needed to provide evidence of a letter withdrawing the 
chargeback and a re-billing screenshot for it to do so. That was in September 2020, around 
four months after the flights were scheduled to take place.
American Express sent several letters to Ms K telling her the chargeback investigation was 
closed. Ms K clearly received the letters, as she responded to them telling American Express 
to deal directly with B. While I understand Ms K might by this stage have been somewhat 
frustrated, that was not American Expresss responsibility. B asked Ms K to provide a letter 
of withdrawal and a copy of her statement showing the transaction being rebilled. It was 
within Ms Ks ability to do so without the further involvement of American Express.
So I cant fairly hold American Express responsible for the additional time or consequences 
of not receiving the refund in a timely way. That includes any interest shes incurred or 
adverse data recorded on her credit file. But like our investigator, I do think American 
Express might have engaged a little better than it did and made the position clearer to Ms K, 
rather than essentially resending the same letter. The investigator felt it appropriate that 
American Express pay £50 compensation for the inconvenience that failing caused Ms K, 
and I share her view that this is a fair amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that to settle this complaint, American 
Express Services Europe Limited should pay Ms K £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman