DRN-4366174
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund her multiple payments made 
from her current account as the result of a scam.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023 to explain why I thought Mrs Os 
complaint should be partially upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to 
give me. This is an extract from that provisional decision:
In February 2021, Mrs O was involved in a scam. She was persuaded to send £15,000, 
over a series of three payments, from her Monzo account to someone who purported to be a 
private forex trader but who we now know to be a scammer.
Mrs O was told by the scammer that her capital would be safe and she would receive 
between 5-10% returns on her investment each month, once the investments reached 
maturity.
However, by April 2021, the scammer had stopped communicating with Mrs O and at that 
point, she realised shed been scammed.
Mrs O then contacted her bank for help. Monzo looked into Mr Os complaint but it didnt 
offer her a refund of the funds she had lost. It said it had contacted the scammers bank, but 
it hadnt been able to retrieve any of Mrs Os funds. Monzo went on to say that it would not 
look to assume liability for Mrs Os loss.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mrs O brought her complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said he didnt think Mrs 
O had a reasonable basis for believing that the investment she had entered into was 
legitimate. Specifically, he said the returns she had been promised were too good to be true 
and Mrs O hadnt done enough checks before entering into the investment.
Mrs O disagreed. She said the returns were reasonable at the time the payments were made 
and that by that point, shed already seen the returns that family members and friends had 
received. Mrs O also stressed that she had spoken to an independent financial advisor about 
the investment before making the payments and hed been satisfied that the investment was 
legitimate.
As an agreement could not be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am currently minded to disagree with the findings put forward by our 
investigator and partially uphold this complaint. Ill explain why in more detail below:
Mrs Os total loss
Mrs O has said that having seen her husband and some of her friends invest with the 
scammer and receive significant returns, she decided to take out a loan with a third-party 
bank and invest too. Mrs O says when the loan funds were paid into her account, she then 
invested £15,000 with the scammer in February 2021. However, evidence was presented to 
me that showed Mrs O received a payment of £5,000 from the scammer in January 2021 via 
her husband. Its unclear how Mrs O couldve received returns from the scam a month 
before shed even begun to invest but regardless, it appears that somehow Mrs O has 
received £5,000 as a result of her involvement in this scam. So, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to start from the position that Mrs O has lost £15,000 as a result of her 
involvement with the scammer. It appears that Mrs Os overall loss amounts to £10,000 and 
so Ive proceeded on that basis.
The CRM Code
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances.
A customer who has fallen victim to a scam should, under the CRM Code, be refunded in full 
in most circumstances. But the Code does set out exceptions to reimbursement which a 
business can choose to rely on, if it can evidence that they apply.
Monzo has said that two such exceptions apply in Mrs Os case. Monzo says that:
It wasnt able to provide Mrs O with an effective scam warning at the time the 
payments were made because Mrs O didnt pick the correct reason for the payments 
she was making; and
Mrs O lacked a reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with a legitimate 
person for legitimate purposes.
It is then for me to decide whether these exceptions to reimbursement can be fairly relied on.
It is not in dispute that Mrs O has been the victim of a scam. Im satisfied the proposition 
offered by the scammer was a fraudulent scheme. But I then need to consider the merits of 
Mrs Os individual case, taking into account her specific circumstances.
Did Mrs O have a reasonable basis for belief when she made the payments?
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mrs 
O and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Mrs O made are enough to support its position that she failed 
to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code.
Whilst I understand Mrs O had seen her husband and their friends receive returns on their 
own investments, I dont think she had a reasonable basis for believing the scammer was 
the person he held himself out to be or that the investments on offer here were genuine. In 
reaching this conclusion I have taken into account the following:I havent seen any evidence that shows me that Mrs O discussed the investment with 
the scammer directly at all. It appears that all communication took place via her 
husband. And based on what Ive seen of these conversations, it appears that the 
majority took place over a text-messaging service - which is not a method used to 
arrange and agree legitimate investments. The language used by the scammer 
wasnt professional and wasnt what Id expect of a genuine trader either. I therefore 
think that the nature of the messages, in combination with the other factors, ought 
reasonably to have led Mrs O to have concerns. 
I havent seen any evidence of a contract or any other documentation signed by Mrs 
O and the scammer that would indicate she was entering into a genuine investment.
The investment Mrs O was offered did not sound genuine and the rate of return she 
was offered and the timescale to receive it were too good to be true. Mrs O was 
offered 5-10% return on the investments per month and some of the text messages 
shared between Mrs Os husband and the scammer indicate returns of over 50%. 
These rates of return are not plausible and even more concerning is that Mrs O was 
told that her original investment was guaranteed. No investment is guaranteed, and 
forex trading is particularly volatile. And so Im satisfied that these rates of return 
were so totally unrealistic and so unlikely that Mrs O ought reasonably to have had 
significant concern about the legitimacy of the opportunity that was presented to her. 
That, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on her part.
Mrs O has said she did carry out some checks on the scammer, including finding his 
profile on various social media websites and checking that the company he said he 
was running was registered on Companies House. However, one of the social media 
profiles mentioned by Mrs O identified the scammer as a musician and makes no 
reference to legitimate investments. Furthermore, the company registration on 
Companies House refers to the business being related to educational support 
services and not any kind of financial services. Im satisfied that all of these things 
should have been significant red flags for Mrs O.
Ive taken on board what Mrs O has said about speaking with an Independent 
Financial Advisor (IFA) before making the payments but Mrs O hasnt been able to 
provide me with the name of the person she spoke to, the company they worked for 
or any documentation or receipts to evidence that this conversation took place at the 
time. Mrs O says the IFA was found online and a meeting took place via video-link 
where the terms of her husbands contract with the scammer were read out. Mrs O 
says this was a free consultation and therefore she doesnt have any proof of 
payment. Mrs O says the IFA confirmed that the investment appeared legitimate. But 
Im not persuaded this is what happened here. As Ive said above, no investment 
could offer a guaranteed return and Im satisfied that had Mrs O sought independent 
financial advice, it wouldve been readily identified that this was most likely a scam. 
And at the very least, I wouldve expected the advisor to tell Mrs O to check if the 
trader was registered with the FCA before proceeding and to warn against 
proceeding with anyone that wasnt.
If Mrs O was investing through a genuine company, Id expect to see the funds she 
paid go to a company account and not to a number of different personal accounts.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mrs O completed enough research before deciding to go 
ahead and invest - particularly given the significant red flags in this case.
Did Monzo provide Mrs O with an effective warning/warnings?
The CRM Code also sets out standards for firms  that is, what firms are expected to do to 
protect customers from the risk of fraud and scams. One of those requirements is that, 
where the firm has (or should have) identified that its customer is at risk from a scam, it should provide that customer with an effective warning, within the meaning of the CRM 
Code.
Mrs O says Monzo didnt provide her with effective warnings before she made the payments 
now in question here.
Ive reviewed the scam warnings that were presented to Mrs O at the time the payments
were being made and I can see they werent specific to the type of investment scam Mrs O 
was falling victim to. The warnings presented to Mrs O related to what are known as goods 
and services scams. And so I dont consider the warnings provided to Mrs O were effective 
within the meaning of the code. However, the code says where it is possible to tailor the 
warning, this should be based on the specific scam risk identified by the information the 
customer input into the banks payment systems at the time.
So, if the customer entered information that steered the bank in the wrong direction about 
the purpose of the payment, this can sometimes impede the banks ability to give a relevant 
effective warning. And in the particular circumstances of this case, when Mrs O was asked to 
confirm the reason she was making the payments now in question, she chose the payment 
reason goods and services rather than the more applicable payment reason of 
investment which was available to her.
When asked about this, Mrs O said she thought the returns she had been promised here 
amounted to a service and this is why she chose the option she did. Ive taken on board 
what Mrs O has told me but there wasnt anything else about the payments that wouldve 
indicated to Monzo that these payments were being made as a result of an investment. And 
the bank can only give a warning based on the scam risk it couldve reasonably identified at 
the time. Given the information input by Mrs O at the time of making the payments alongside 
the characteristics of the payments themselves, I dont think it would be reasonable to say 
that in this particular case, Monzo shouldve identified that Mrs O was about to fall victim to 
an investment scam. And so whilst I agree here that Monzo shouldve provided Mrs O with 
an effective warning, and it has given a warning that wasnt specific to the underlying scam 
that occurred here, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that it failed to 
meet its standards under the code and therefore that it should be held partially liable for Mrs 
Os loss for this reason.
Should Monzo have done anything more to protect Mrs O?
Monzo should have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. And I 
consider the first £5,000 payment to be out of character given Mrs Os previous account and 
payment history. Having considered Mrs Os bank statements for the period before the scam 
I can see that the first payment made as part of the scam was considerably higher than 
payments she usually made from the account and it was being made to a new payee directly 
after loan funds had been paid into the account. And so, I think the first payment made here 
ought reasonably to have caused Monzo to have any concerns that she was at risk of being 
scammed and Im satisfied that Monzo shouldve contacted Mrs O to discuss the payment 
before it left her account.
Had Monzo contacted Mrs O to discuss the payment, Im satisfied that its more likely than 
not that the scam couldve been uncovered. Mrs O hadnt been given a cover-story by the 
scammer and wouldve had no reason to lie to the bank. And Im satisfied that had Monzo, 
after asking relevant probing questions, identified that Mrs O had been promised guaranteed 
returns by an unregulated trader she was speaking with via a messaging service, Monzo 
wouldve fairly quickly identified that Mrs O was about to fall victim to a scam and couldve prevented the payments from leaving her account. For this reason, I am currently mined to 
say that it would be fair and reasonable for Monzo to take responsibility for 50% of Mrs Os 
overall loss amounting to £5,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same overall conclusions as I reached in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why in more detail below.
Both Mrs O and Monzo responded to my provisional decision to say they disagreed with my 
provisional findings and both provided further points for my consideration. 
Mrs O said:
She didnt think it was fair to deduct the £5,000 paid to her by the scammer (via her 
husbands account) from the refund awarded in my provisional decision.
She agreed that the initial £5,000 payment that left her account was unusual and she 
maintained that this meant Monzo should be liable for her total overall loss.
Mrs O wished to stress that although the majority of the conversations in regard to 
the supposed investment took place between the scammer and her husband, she 
was present during all of these conversations and was privy to all of the information 
being shared. 
Monzo said:
It had reviewed Mrs Os bank statements for the 12 months leading up to the scam 
and it disagreed that the initial £5,000 payment was out of character when compared 
to the usual activity on Mrs Os account. It said Mrs O had made similar or higher 
value payments than the one now in question in March, May and June 2020. And it 
provided copies of Mrs Os statements to support this. 
Monzo wished to highlight that, at the time of making the payments, Mrs O was 
presented with scam warnings and, whilst it appreciated that the warnings were not 
relevant to the type of scam Mrs O was falling victim to, it had evidence to show that 
Mrs O moved back and forth between the warning screens when making the 
payments and the warnings did include the following directions Stop dont pay and 
check with your bank. 
Ill address each point in turn.
I acknowledge that Mrs O feels that it would be unfair to deduct the £5,000 payment paid to 
prior to her investing in the scam. However, I dont agree. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
say that Mrs O had suffered an overall loss of £15,000 as a result of her involvement in the 
scam, if she also received a payment of £5,000 because of this involvement. So, Im 
satisfied it is reasonable to take this payment into account now. 
I also want to acknowledge what Mrs O has said about Monzo not identifying that she was 
likely falling victim to a scam from the first payment onwards  despite this payment being 
unusual for her account. As I said in my provisional decision, I agree that Monzo shouldve 
identified that there was a scam risk attached to this payment. However, this doesnt necessarily mean that Monzo should be held liable Mrs Os total loss now. Once Monzos 
role in the success of the scam has been agreed, the next thing I need to think about is 
whether Mrs O should also bear some responsibility for the success of the scam. And as I 
said in my provisional decision, I think she should. This is the reason I recommended that 
Monzo share responsibility for the overall loss and the redress I recommended reflects this 
shared responsibility. 
Monzo has provided me with additional account statements which it says show that the initial 
£5,000 payment made as part of this scam was not unusual for Mrs Os account. However, I 
dont agree. Mrs O making similar or higher payments eight months prior to the payments 
now in question here does not make this activity usual. The very fact that Monzo has had 
to go back eight months to find similar transactions supports the fact that the transactions 
are, in fact, unusual. So Monzos further submissions on this point have not changed my 
mind. And whilst I appreciate Monzo providing me further information about the scam 
warnings that were provided to Mrs O at the time and for detailing Mrs Os actions whilst 
processing the scam payments, I dont think these make a difference either, as, overall, the 
scam warnings seen by Mrs O at the time were unlikely to have been impactful due to them 
not being relevant to the scam she was falling victim to. 
Recovery of funds 
Ive also thought about whether Monzo couldve done more to help Mrs O once it was 
notified of the scam but I dont think it could. 
I can see that Monzo contacted the receiving banks where Mrs Os funds were paid to but 
were told no funds remained in the accounts to be returned to Mrs O. I acknowledge that 
Monzo did initially contact the wrong bank but I dont think this has made a difference here. 
Through no fault of her own, Mrs O reported that she had been the victim of a scam some 
six months after the payments to the scammer had been made. So, I think its reasonable to 
assume, given the timeframes involved and given what we know about the scammer, that 
the funds were most likely utilised prior to Mrs O reporting the scam to Monzo and therefore 
could not have been recovered at the time.  
Summary
As neither Mrs O nor Monzo has provided any new evidence or submissions that have 
changed my mind, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mrs O, Monzo Bank Ltd should:  
refund Mrs O 50% of her total loss amounting to £5,000.
pay interest on that amount at a rate of 8% simple from the date the first payment left 
the account to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Emly Hanley Hayes
Ombudsman