DRN-1872973
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that NRAM Limited failed to support them when they got into 
difficulties with their mortgage. They say that NRAM overreacted to one late payment, which 
was only a few days late, and left them with no option but to sell their home. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had problems paying their mortgage, and they sold their home in late 2011. 
Our service isnt usually able to consider complaints after this length of time, but given the 
extenuating circumstances in this case, NRAM has agreed to us considering this case. 
Mr and Mrs B told us that possession of their property was granted to NRAM in the first half 
of 2011, and the property was sold in the later part of that year. They said that Mr B lost his 
business in 2008, and had suffered financial difficulties since then. They said they entered 
into a 12 month payment agreement in 2010, but missed the last payment, in December 
2010, making the payment on 2nd or 3rd of January 2011. 
Mr and Mrs B said they asked for a new payment agreement after that, but NRAM said no, 
because they had failed to keep to the previous agreement. 
Mr and Mrs B said they paid what they could in early 2011, but NRAM would not discuss a 
new payment plan, and it repeatedly demanded they make the standard mortgage payment 
even though it knew about their financial position. 
Mr and Mrs B said they had finally agreed to opt for an assisted sale plan. They said they 
found out after this that NRAM were able to offer tailored, fixed rates as low as 1% for 
customers. But they were told they werent eligible for that scheme because they had opted 
for the assisted sale and couldnt change their minds. 
Mr and Mrs B set out for us the details of the challenges they faced during this time, 
including family illness and bereavement. 
NRAMs notes from the time dont match with everything Mr and Mrs B told us. Those notes 
say that Mr and Mrs B had been in financial difficulties for some time, since Mr B lost his 
business. Mrs B found work in April 2010, and there was an agreement for reduced 
payments at this time. In August 2010 Mrs B rang NRAM and said they were able to go back 
to making the full contractual monthly payment. Modest overpayments then appear to have 
been arranged, and were made. 
NRAM did send Mr and Mrs B a letter about a broken arrangement in March 2010, but when 
Mrs B queried it, NRAM said to ignore it. The shortfall was only 10p. The existing 
arrangement remained in place. 
Mr and Mrs B stopped paying the mortgage after March 2011. 
In May 2011, Mr and Mrs B told NRAM that they were marketing their property, and had 
been for the last two months. They had a number of viewings, but no offers. They also told 
NRAM at the time that they were desperate to stay in the property. NRAM wouldnt agree a 
payment arrangement at this time. It said it would take legal proceedings, and it took steps to 
do so in June 2011. Legal costs of £231.60 were added to the mortgage in July 2011, and 
further legal costs of £68 and £96 were added in August 2011. There were no legal costs 
after this. NRAM didnt repossess the property, it supported Mr and Mrs B in selling it.
NRAM has twice responded to complaints on this issue. It told Mr B in 2018 that it didnt 
force the sale of this property, and it said he and Mrs B still had to pay the outstanding 
balance now the house was sold. In 2019 it said that their house was sold in late 2011 in line 
with an Assisted Voluntary Sale process. NRAM wouldnt consider this complaint then, 
because of the length of time since the house had been sold. 
In 2020, NRAM responded to a slightly different complaint. It said it had agreed the sale of 
the property at a price that left a shortfall amount of a little over £63,000. NRAM said that 
there was a dispute around this time about how long the interest free period would be, for 
repaying this shortfall. That doesnt appear to me to be the complaint that Mr B brings now.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. She listed the payment 
arrangements that NRAM had agreed with Mr and Mrs B prior to the sale of their property. 
She said that Mr and Mrs B had been having difficulties with their payments for some time. It 
looked like this mortgage was no longer affordable for them. So our investigator thought that 
selling their house was in the best interests of Mr and Mrs B. She didnt think NRAM had 
forced Mr and Mrs B to do that. 
But our investigator didnt think that NRAM shouldve gone ahead with legal action, once Mr 
and Mrs B told it that their home was on the market, as well as after theyd received an offer 
on the property. So she thought it should pay back the legal costs that had been added to 
the loan.
NRAM didnt agree with that. It said it appreciated that the property was on the market, but
action couldnt be held indefinitely. No-one knows how long it may take for a property to sell. 
NRAM said it stopped all legal action when it was confirmed that an offer had been 
accepted. It had only added costs for legal action that had already taken place before the 
offer was made. It didnt think it had to pay that back. 
Mr B didnt agree either. He said that he and Mrs B stopped paying the mortgage in April as 
they had to move out. He said that NRAM was moving forward with possession proceedings, 
so they had to move. And they couldnt afford both rent and the mortgage. 
Mr B said he and Mrs B kept engaging with NRAM, but they didnt think it was engaging with 
them. And if he and Mrs B had been given the support they needed, he thought they could 
have remained in the property and would have turned the situation around.
Mr B repeated that he understood NRAM was offering a lower rate deal to some customers, 
but wouldnt offer this to them, because they had opted for an assisted sale. And it would not 
consider further payment agreements because they failed to maintain the last one. He still 
thought that it was NRAMs fault that the house had to be sold.
Our investigator didnt change her mind.
She wrote to Mr and Mrs B to say that she didnt agree that NRAM had forced them to sell 
the property. The property was put on the market two months before NRAM knew about this. And even if they were paying for rental accommodation from June onwards, they did still 
have a mortgage contract in place. Recent income and expenditure calculations at the time 
had shown they couldnt afford to pay that mortgage, and there were arrears of almost 
£15,000. So our investigator didnt think it was unfair of NRAM to begin legal proceedings.
And she wrote to NRAM to say that Mr and Mrs B had told it in May 2011 that the property 
was on the market. Legal action began in July 2011, but she didnt think two months was 
enough time to allow Mr and Mrs B to find a buyer. She thought they had been actively trying 
to sell the property.
Mr B wrote again, he hadnt changed his mind either. He said that it was obvious to them in 
early 2011 that NRAM were not willing to treat them fairly. He felt it was inevitable that a 
possession order would be granted ultimately leading to their eviction and the sale of their 
home. That was why they decided to sell the property. He repeated that if NRAM had treated 
them fairly, they would have been able to keep their home. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same overall conclusion 
on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr and Mrs B took out an interest only mortgage in 2003. They took further advances after 
this date. Mr B had been experiencing some financial difficulties since 2008, when his 
business failed. He then found himself out of work. Although he had some hopes of finding 
other work, no other options came to fruition. 
At the end of 2010, Mr and Mrs B were late in making their mortgage payment. 
Mr B has argued that he was refused any further forbearance after this by NRAM because 
he paid the last payment of his 2010 arrangement a few days late. He says NRAM wouldnt 
enter into any further agreement on the mortgage because of this.
Ive looked carefully at the records that NRAM has from the time. But I havent been able to 
see that this missed payment led to the consequences that Mr B described. 
Mr and Mrs B were paying a reduced mortgage amount until July 2010. The amount 
increased in August. It hadnt previously been enough to cover the monthly interest, so 
arrears had been accruing. But it looks as if this increase happened because Mrs B, who 
had started a business a few months earlier, rang NRAM and said they were able to go back 
to making the full contractual monthly payment. Modest overpayments then appear to have 
been arranged, and were made.
Mr and Mrs B did pay a little late at the end of 2010, but I cant see that this had any impact 
on the payments they were making in early 2011. It doesnt look like any payment 
agreement was withdrawn, or there was any refusal to renew, as a consequence of this. 
They still seem to have been paying around the same amount per month in early 2011 as 
they had been in late 2010. I know that Mr and Mrs B were sent a broken arrangement letter in early March 2011, but I 
can also see that they were told to ignore that letter, which had only been sent because their 
February payment was 10p short.
But the payment that Mr and Mrs B made at the end of March was the last payment they 
made on their mortgage. They told us that theyd decided to move out, and rent elsewhere 
so the house could be sold. They also said that they couldnt afford to pay both rent, and 
their mortgage, so they stopped paying the mortgage after the end of March. 
NRAM has sent us Mr and Mrs Bs lease, which doesnt begin until mid-June 2013. Mr and 
Mrs B apparently told NRAM that theyd stopped paying their mortgage earlier than this so 
they could save for a deposit.
The sale of their property doesnt appear to have been discussed with NRAM at all until May. 
NRAM wasnt aware before this that it was being marketed. By May, further arrears were 
accruing on the mortgage, and NRAM found out that the property had been on the market 
for two months. It had received no offers. 
Our investigator said that NRAM took legal action aimed at gaining possession of the 
property two months after this. She didnt think that was enough time for Mr and Mrs B to sell 
their property. The property had only been on the market for four months at this point. 
Our investigator said she thought that Mr and Mrs B were actively trying to sell their house, 
and this was proved by the fact that they agreed a sale (albeit at a significantly reduced 
price) a few months later. 
I do appreciate that NRAM couldnt be sure of this at the time. At the same time as they told 
NRAM that the house was being marketed, Mr and Mrs B also said that they were desperate 
to stay there. So I dont think NRAM could have assumed at the time that there would be 
absolutely no need to go ahead with legal proceedings. But I do think it couldve discussed 
with the estate agents who were marketing the property, whether there was a realistic 
prospect of a sale in the short term.
Because NRAM didnt do that, it moved straight to repossession proceedings, without being 
clear whether those were necessary or not, I think it should refund the legal fees it has 
charged onto Mr and Mrs Bs debt, and rework the debt to remove any interest attributable to 
those fees.
Its possible that Mr and Mrs B would still like to have explored staying in their home at that 
time. But dont think it was unreasonable for NRAM not to agree another plan in May, after 
Mr and Mrs B had stopped paying the mortgage. 
Mr Bs complaint is that if NRAM had offered more forbearance, he wouldve been able to 
stay in his home, and wouldve been able to get back on his feet. But we know that Mr and 
Mrs B had been experiencing financial difficulties for quite some time, when they decided to 
move out of their home and to put it on the market. I dont think that NRAM forced them to do 
this. And I understand that Mr and Mrs B had a considerable amount of unsecured debt in 
addition to their mortgage lending. Mr B had previously told NRAM that he had only been 
managing with the support of family, and this support would have to come to an end.
So I dont think its NRAMs fault that Mr and Mrs B decided to move out of their home and 
market it. Rather, I think that it was a response by Mr and Mrs B to the extremely difficult 
circumstances they found themselves in at the time. And, as Mr B said at the time, a move 
closer to where he was likely to be able to find work would greatly reduce his outgoings. I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, but aside from moving a little too quickly to take 
legal action, I dont think that NRAM did anything wrong. So I dont think the remainder of 
their complaint should be upheld.  
My final decision
My decision is that NRAM Limited should refund the legal fees charged in 2011 onto Mr and 
Mrs Bs debt, and rework this debt to remove any interest charged on those fees.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman