DRN-2489496
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc did not reimburse the money he transferred to 
a fraudster.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here. But briefly, its accepted that Mr J was contacted by a fraudster who, 
pretending to be from HMRC, tricked him into believing that he needed to make an 
immediate payment due to errors on his tax return. Mr J was convinced by the fraudster that 
if he did not do this he would be arrested.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers whove been the victims of
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of
circumstances. HSBC believes one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Ultimately, HSBC felt Mr J could have done more to prevent this fraud happening and 
provided many arguments in favour of this position  including a view that these scams are 
extremely well known. To settle things, HSBC made an offer to return 50% of the amount 
lost to Mr J. It did not offer the full amount as, amongst other things, it believes Mr J could 
have done additional checks to verify that the caller was from HMRC and that he could 
have called HMRC to check if this was a genuine request.
Mr J doesnt agree this is fair and has asked us to consider the matter.
Though this scam continued beyond the transfers that Mr J made from his HSBC account, 
this complaint is only about payments made from his HSBC account. So I will not be making 
reference to those other matters in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the full £1,492 Mr J 
lost. Im not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the 
circumstances of this case. 
I understand that Mr J has already been refunded 50% of the loss (£746) by HSBC. 
In the circumstances, HSBC should therefore fairly and reasonably refund the 
remaining 50% (£746) to Mr J.
The money was taken from Mr Js current account. Its not clear how he would have 
used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it ought reasonably to have done. So 
it should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per 
year - from the date HSBC should have refunded this under the CRM Code to the 
date of payment.
Ive carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Mr J had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a 
different outcome fundamentally to the one expressed by the Investigator. In particular, Im 
not persuaded that Mr J failed to take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose 
not to fully reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code. And, for completeness, Im also 
satisfied that Mr J did not act with gross negligence.
In reaching this decision, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the fraudster for Mr J 
and the impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on his thoughts and 
actions.
Im satisfied, from Mr Js contact with HSBC, the report he made to Action Fraud and his 
evidence to us, that its more likely than not he was placed under a lot of emotional pressure 
by the fraudster. Mr J was convinced he would be arrested if he didnt make a payment 
promptly. This was of course a deliberate tactic by the fraudster to create fear  in the hope 
it would disrupt Mr Js thinking and make him more compliant. Fraudsters know that fear can 
often have a destabilising effect on a persons thought process. It can certainly make people 
take steps that, in the cold light of day, they might not otherwise take.  
On balance, Im satisfied this happened here to Mr J and that in all the circumstances his 
response was not unreasonable. As Mr J put it himself, my brain failed to function straight 
but panicking as she threatened me by saying that police will come to my door in the next 2 
hours if I don't make the payment. I can see how the fact Mr J believed he was speaking to 
HMRC, a well-known organisation of authority, will have, by the design of the fraudster, only 
added to this. 
Mr J says he has been self-employed since 2011  other than a period of roughly two years 
when he wasnt a UK resident. And he says that he had been in contact with HMRC about a 
potential refund in the days/weeks before he was contacted by the fraudster. So the fact 
contact from HMRC was not wholly unexpected will only, on balance, have increased the 
plausibility of the scam. 
Despite this, Mr J still remembers taking steps to validate he was speaking to HMRC. When 
questioning the fraudster, he recalls she specifically instructed me to google the number 
she was calling from. Mr J went on to say I asked a great deal of questions to verify/identify 
the call/the person. And I dropped my suspicion when I asked her how I can trust that she's 
genuinely calling from HMRC, she gave me this phone number beginning with 020 and 
instructed me to google the number to see whether that redirects me to the authentic HMRC 
website and it did. I double checked whether the URL is genuine and it was the same as the 
one I would get to by entering www.hmrc.co.uk in the browser tab. Unfortunately for Mr J, the fraudster had most likely used technology to spoof HMRCs 
telephone number. So his verification attempts had only, in fact, served to strengthen the 
plausibility of the fraudsters story and make Mr J less likely to question what he was being 
asked to do. Mr J says that the telephone verification played a chunky role here and I can 
see how, in all the circumstances, that could reasonably have been the case. Mr J recalls, 
following his attempt to verify the call, he felt that he had no other options but believe 
whatever she utters.
It can be easy, with the benefit of hindsight and particularly if viewed in isolation, to wonder 
how certain aspects of a scam were successful. For example, in this case, possibly in order 
to keep the pace and urgency of the scam alive, the fraudster sent the HMRC demand 
letter to Mr J during the fraud via a popular messaging app (the message showing as 
coming from HMRC Accounts and carrying HMRCs logo). And the demand letter itself 
was threatening though by no means grammatically perfect. I have carefully thought about 
whether, in all the circumstances, this should have broken the fraudsters spell.  
However, in all the circumstances, noting also that English is not Mr Js first language, Im 
satisfied that the scene initially set that day meant the events which followed were 
reasonably viewed by Mr J through the lens created by the fraudster. Its important to 
remember that people dont want or expect to be scammed. And banks naturally have a 
greater knowledge of scams than most people are likely to have. Mr J says he thought he 
had verified the identity of the fraudster, the telephone number matched the one on HMRCs 
website, he was frightened of being arrested and a call from HMRC was not unexpected. I 
consider these are examples of things that are reasonably, in all the circumstances of this 
case, more likely than not to have blunted any suspicions Mr J may have encountered along 
the path of the fraud. Indeed, they were designed to do so by the fraudster.    
For the same reasoning, Im satisfied that the reason Mr J has given for not being suspicious 
he had to make three payments to two separate HMRC department accounts was also 
reasonable.
So in summary, Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Mr J lacked a reasonable basis 
of belief for making the transactions in question. It can be difficult for consumers to think 
clearly, and take steps they might otherwise take, in all the circumstances Mr J found himself 
in. Thats not unreasonable and is of course why frauds like this can be so successful. The 
CRM Code acknowledges this in much of its design. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Ive found that Mr J ought to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. And that
its fair and reasonable that HSBC reimburses him now, in resolution to this complaint.
I therefore require that HSBC:
pay Mr J the remaining 50% of the money lost - £746;
pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, calculated from the date HSBC
declined Mr Js claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement - less
any tax lawfully deductible.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Patrick Hurley
Ombudsman