DRN-3548038
The complaint
Miss A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined her travel insurance claim.
What happened
Miss A booked a trip abroad, departing from the UK on 18 October 2020. On 14 October 
2020, Miss A took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover her trip. The policy is 
underwritten by Great Lakes.
On 18 October 2020, Miss A arrived at the airport to take her flight, however, due to delays 
at the check in desk and through security, she was refused boarding at the gate by the 
airline staff as she had arrived too late. As a result, Miss A incurred additional expenses, 
including a new flight and overnight accommodation, in order to travel out to her trip 
destination the following day. 
Miss A made a claim to Great Lakes for these additional expenses, but the claim was 
refused. Great Lakes said that the circumstances of the claim fell outside the policy terms.
Unhappy with this response, Miss A complained to Great Lakes and brought the complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She found that Great Lakes decision to decline the claim was reasonable, based on 
the policy coverage.
Miss A disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Miss A. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss As complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Miss As claim relates to additional travel and accommodation expenses incurred in order to 
reach her trip destination after she was denied boarding on her outward flight. This was as a 
result of her late arrival at the boarding gate which Miss A has said was due to delays at the 
check in desk and also getting through the relevant security area in the airport. 
Great Lakes has said there is no cover for the circumstances which caused Miss As claim. It 
has referred to the missed departure section of the policy in its reply  Section 4a of the 
policy  which states the following:
We will pay you up to the amount shown on the table of benefits, for reasonable 
additional travelling and accommodation expenses necessarily incurred to reach your 
overseas destination or to return to your home country by the most direct route.
If you arrive at the airport, port or international coach or rail terminal to depart too late 
to commence the first outward international journey abroad of your booked trip, as a 
result of:
a) breakdown of or accident directly involving the vehicle in which you are 
travelling; or
b) cancellation, curtailment or delay of scheduled public transport due to 
adverse weather conditions, strike, or industrial action, or mechanical 
breakdown, or accident.
c) you being delayed due to a major incident on a motorway.
d) you being delayed due to road closures because of an act of terrorism or the 
public transport being used is delayed or cancelled due to an act of terrorism.
We will provide assistance by liaising with the carrier and/or tour operator to advise of 
your late arrival. If necessary, we will make arrangements for overnight hotel 
accommodation and alternative international travel.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
When looking at this section of the policy, I can see that cover is provided for additional 
travel and accommodation costs incurred to reach the trip destination if it is caused by one of 
several listed reasons. From what Miss A has told us, she arrived at the airport with 
adequate time to make her flight, however, it was delays within the airport that caused her to 
miss her flight. This is not one of the reasons detailed in the policy for which Great Lakes will 
provide cover for additional expenses following a missed flight and therefore Im persuaded 
the decision by Great Lakes to refuse the claim under this section is fair and reasonable.
Ive also looked at the remainder of the policy wording to see if there is any other section 
which would consider Miss As claim, but the circumstances Miss A found herself in dont 
appear to fall within any of the other sections of cover provided. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think Ms As claim is covered under the policy terms and conditions, nor are 
there reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask Great Lakes to accept 
her claim. Im therefore not persuaded that Great Lakes needs to do anything more.
Miss A has said that she took out the highest level of insurance cover and so she would 
expect her claim to be covered. I understand her frustration, but it is important to note that 
insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for the premium). The 
events they will and wont cover just need to be clearly set out in the terms and conditions of 
the policy. And Im satisfied that Great Lakes has clearly set out the reasons it will accept 
cover for a missed departure claim in the policy terms provided to Miss A. So, this point 
doesnt make a difference to my outcome.My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman