 
the complaint
Mr L is complaining about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) has valued his car after he 
made a claim on his car insurance policy.
what happened
Mr L's car was stolen, so he contacted esure to claim on his car insurance policy. Under the 
terms of the policy, esure said it would settle the claim by paying him the market value for his 
car, less the excess. It valued his car at £17,000.
Mr L didnt accept the valuation as he said he can't replace the car for the amount esure was 
offering. He said that his car came with a significant modification which increased  its value. 
He asked that esure provided him with a replacement car, rather than pay him the market 
value.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he thought the valuation was in line with the 
industrys trade valuation guides. He said that esure wasn't required to replace Mr L's car, 
but pay him the car's market value. He was also satisfied that esure's valuation was fair.    
Mr L didnt accept the investigators opinion as he maintained that he cant replace the car 
for the amount esure was offering. He thought esure should contact the dealership that he 
bought the car from to get a valuation as he said they're the only authorised dealership for 
this type of car.
Mr L also said that he had around £1,500 worth of personal possessions in the car that 
esure didn't pay out for. 
The investigator said that the terms of the policy didn't require esure to provide a settlement 
from a specific dealer. It required esure to pay him the market value for the car and he still 
thought esure's valuation was fair.
Mr L still didn't agree with the investigator, so he asked for an ombudsman to decide the 
complaint. 
 
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Ls policy, esure has to pay him the market value of the car, 
less his excess. The terms of the policy also say that this is "based on research from motor 
trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price [Mr L] paid 
when [he] purchased the car."
esure has valued Mr Ls car at £17,000. Its said its valued this by reviewing the main 
industry trade valuation guides and online adverts and making a further allowance for the 
modifications done to the car. Mr L doesnt think this valuation is fair because he says he 
cant replace the car for the amount esure is offering.
Its standard practice for the industry to use trade valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuations the guides give are based on the advertised and likely sales prices of similar cars with similar age and 
mileage for sale at the time of loss. 
Ive reviewed three main valuation guides and they give a range of values from £14,300 to 
£16,600. However, I'm conscious that the guides won't necessarily give a fair reflection of    
Mr L's car's market value, given the modifications done to the car will likely to have 
increased its value. Given this, I've also looked for similar cars available for sale - taking into 
account Mr L's car's age and mileage. Having done so, I don't think £17,000 is an unfair 
value for Mr L's car, as I think it is a fair reflection of advertised prices for similar cars. So 
I don't think esure needs to increase this value.
I appreciate that Mr L feels that esure should get a valuation figure from the garage that sold 
him the car. But I don't agree. esure has to pay him the car's market value and I'm satisfied 
that £17,000 was a fair reflection of this.
I note Mr L has also said that he had around £1,500 worth of personal possessions in his 
car. But I can't see that he claimed for these. So I can't look at that in this decision. And he'll 
need to direct this to esure if he wishes to claim for this.
my final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, it's my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2019.
 
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman