DRN-4034314
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with Gresham Insurance Company Limiteds (GICLs) decision to decline a 
claim she made for damage to her house caused by a storm. 
GICL is responsible for the actions of its agents, including its contractors and anyone acting 
on its behalf. So, any reference to GICL includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
Mrs J made a claim on her buildings insurance policy for damage to a glass canopy situated 
over the back door of her house. She said that during a recent storm, in February 2022, high 
winds lifted the canopy and dropped it back down. Mrs J explained that all of the panes of 
glass broke, and the canopy came away from the wall. 
GICL sent contractors, who Ill refer to as E, to the property to assess the damage. In the 
report which followed E said the structure was poorly constructed, with the work being 
carried out by a local company. 
Mrs J complained to GICL about its claim decision and received a final response letter not 
upholding her complaint on 25 May 2022. In summary, GICL said that the weather, at the 
time the damage occurred, highlighted an existing issue with the canopy; it wasnt the sole 
cause of the damage. GICL explained that the roof and external parts of the building would 
suffer continuous weather-related damage over time. They said It was the duty of the 
insured to regularly carry out inspections of their property, normally by a professional 
tradesperson, and keep it maintained.
Unhappy with GICLs response, Mrs J brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened and issued a view not upholding the complaint. He 
concluded, that based on the available evidence, GICLs decision to decline the claim was 
fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs J didnt accept our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision on her 
complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mrs J is unhappy that GICL declined her claim and believes the extreme weather events 
were responsible for the damage caused to her property, not faulty workmanship, wear and 
tear, and lack of maintenance, as argued by GICL. So, Ive considered the claim decision 
reached by GICL to see whether it was made in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions and was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
When our service considers complaints about claims for storm damage, we ask ourselves 
three questions. Unless the answer to all three questions is yes, its likely that the claim 
wouldnt succeed. The three questions we ask are:
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the reported damage?
Is the damage reported consistent with damage typically caused by a storm?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
So, Ive next gone on to consider each of these questions in turn.
Were there storm conditions?
GICL accepts there were storm conditions around the time of the damage in February 2022.  
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
The damage in this case, of broken glass in a canopy fixed to the wall is consistent with 
damage typically caused by storm force winds.
Was the storm the main cause of damage?
GICL concluded, on the basis of a report provided by their contractor, E, that the storm 
conditions highlighted existing issues with the property, and if the damage was to be 
repaired, the same thing would likely occur again during a future storm. E said in their report 
that poor workmanship, demonstrated by the incorrect fitting of glazing bars and cladding to 
the house, was the main cause of the damage. E had also said that the canopy was in a 
poor state of repair.
However, Mrs J said that the canopy was built in 2005/2006 and has been perfectly fine until 
the February 2022 storm. She explained that workers removed the broken glass and 
dismantled rafters and guttering which affected the evidence. But the main support post was 
still standing strong indicating, in her opinion, sound workmanship. When raising a complaint 
with GICL, Mrs J said that she finds it very unreasonable that a structure that has stood 
throughout many storms over the past 16 years has had a claim for damage declined on the 
basis of poor workmanship.
Where the evidence is incomplete, contradictory, or inconsistent, as it is here, I make my 
decision based on what I think more likely than not was the case. Having considered all of 
the available evidence regarding the damage, including the reports from E and the 
photographs, Ive come to the same conclusion reached by our investigator, that the storm 
was not the main cause of the damage to the glass canopy. In my view the evidence 
supports GICLs conclusion that wear and tear, and poor workmanship were likely the main 
causes of the damage, which the storm served to highlight. So, I wont be asking GICL to do 
anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Carolyn HarwoodOmbudsman