DRN-3661639
The complaint
Mr B complains that Pensionhelp Limited acted unprofessionally when it withdrew 
from giving him advice about a pension transfer.
What happened
Mr B was a member of his former employers defined benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme.
Around 12 February 2020, an introducer firm, D, got in touch with Pensionhelp to ask it 
to advise on a potential transfer out of Mr Bs DB scheme. His pension had a transfer 
value of £305,158.31. Although that value was guaranteed until April 2020, Mr B needed 
an indication towards the end of February 2020 whether transferring was in his best 
interests. Or, alternatively, his former employer had offered a larger tax-free cash option, 
with reduced income, (due to the terms of an ill health agreement the previous year) if 
Mr B took his benefits from the DB scheme.
Pensionhelp carried out a fact-find with Mr B on 17 February 2020, noting various things 
about his financial circumstances and objectives. Those included that, following some 
health issues, and him having taken early retirement, he wanted to make sure his wife 
and family were provided for in the event that he died before his state pension age. He 
also indicated that he was looking for a flexible income in retirement, so one of the things 
he wanted to do was to review his pension arrangements to see how they met his needs 
at that point and in later retirement. Pensionhelp had completed its initial financial review 
by about 18 February 2020.
Later in February 2020, there were various exchanges between Mr B and Pensionhelp. 
Those exchanges led to amendments to the cashflow models Pensionhelp had generated 
to allow for things like different rates of inflation and higher and lower investment risk 
ratings. Mr B also asked for further amendments to allow for his income not reducing at 
age 70 as hed initially suggested.
Mr B and Pensionhelp had telephone conversations and email exchanges on 24 February 
2020, largely about amendments to the cashflow models. In one, Mr B indicated he was 
completely torn about the decision hed likely make and said Pensionhelp had been 
unable to answer what he thought were simple questions about the cashflow models. He 
also indicated he didnt understand the logic behind the cashflow models and asked 
Pensionhelp to ensure that (given some earlier errors) there were no compliance issues 
going forward.
The following day, Mr B sent a further email to Pensionhelp. He said hed spoken to his 
adviser at D, whod said that Pensionhelp felt positive in making a recommendation now. 
He also apologised for sounding wound up the previous day. He said hed felt up 
against a deadline of lunchtime to send documents off if a transfer was not advisable. He 
added that his concern was merely that together we could reach the right decision for my 
future... at the end of the day I have to rely on professionals to protect me from myself 
making a wrong decision through a lack of knowledge in financial matters. This is why I 
wanted to ensure the information was correct, for both of us... But Id go with your advice 
on how best to plan financially and maximise the benefit of the transfer.
Other amendments were made to the cashflow models around 3 March 2020 to allow 
for further changes that Mr B asked for.
Exchanges between Mr B and Pensionhelp continued on 9 March 2020. They also 
discussed things over the phone. Mr B asked for (and Pensionhelp agreed) to make 
further amendments to the figures used in its analysis. Pensionhelps note of the call 
suggests it told Mr B that its analysis used assumptions so nothing was cast in stone. 
The adviser added that theyd done the analysis to death, but what he was trying to do 
was get the cashflow right.
Pensionhelp then telephoned Mr B on or around 12 March 2020. According to whats 
been noted, it said no matter how we try, we can never meet in the middle. So, it told 
Mr B that it had decided not to take things further. In another part of the note, apparently 
following a call with the introducer firm, Pensionhelp indicated that Mr B didnt 
understand its processes and challenges every action we take.
It then wrote to Mr B on 18 March 2020 (at Mr Bs request) to confirm its decision to walk 
away. However, in that letter it said it wouldnt be proceeding with its analysis as the 
transfer of Mr Bs existing benefits is not the type of case that Pensionhelp will 
consider.
Mr B later complained to Pensionhelp. In its response it said it was satisfied it acted in a 
reasonably professional manner throughout the process and had followed standard 
processes. However, it accepted that it hadnt always properly managed Mr Bs 
expectations and that there had been a lack of updates. It offered £250 compensation for 
any distress or inconvenience that caused. It also said that its withdrawal related to the 
advice process and not just the transfer itself. And, contrary to Mr Bs suggestion, it didnt 
agree that it was annoyed by errors being questioned. It again said Mr Bs case wasnt 
one it could consider and that no mention was made in its withdrawal letter to Mr B of any 
alleged behaviour on his part nor in any correspondence it had reviewed. It said the only 
comment it could find was that Mr B and Pensionhelp hadnt been able to meet in the 
middle. Other remarks it made included:
It agreed there were some erroneous issues in its cashflow modelling. And 
whilst it accepted there was no excuse for not checking the figures properly, it 
pointed out that they were corrected quickly and re-issued for Mr Bs 
consideration.
It felt it had been accommodating when compiling and forwarding various 
cashflow models given the pressing deadline it was given.
It was satisfied the fact-finding exercises were robust enough in accordance 
with internal and regulatory requirements.
It can typically take between 4-12 weeks to conclude pension review/advice 
(and sometimes longer) but it was asked to complete the process within a 
much shorter timescale. It felt it unfair to lay any blame at its door and said it 
had tried to be as accommodating as possible.
It didnt agree it had made any personal insults towards Mr B.
It didnt think Mr B had been financially disadvantaged by not transferring and 
the benefits within his existing scheme hadnt been lost. The status quo had 
been maintained and that might not have been the case (given the volatility in 
the markets) had he gone ahead with a transfer.
It didnt feel it could give a written personal recommendation due to the fluid 
set of requirements.
Mr B wasnt happy with Pensionhelps response, so he complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but didnt think Pensionhelp needed to do anything more. Amongst other things he said that:
Pensionhelps client agreement with Mr B allowed either party to walk away 
without prejudicing the transactions already initiated.
Whilst noting Mr Bs concerns about the lack of reasons for its decision, he 
didnt necessarily think Pensionhelp was required to give specific reasons.
Overall, whilst the investigator didnt feel that Pensionhelp was responsible for any loss Mr 
B said hed suffered, he appreciated that Mr Bs expectations may not have been met in 
full  because hed expected to receive transfer advice, but Pensionhelp ended up not 
giving that. However, the investigator felt that Pensionhelps compensation payment 
acknowledged the stress that Mr B had suffered in being told that Pensionhelp wouldnt 
proceed with its pensions advice.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator and made a number of detailed points in 
response. Whilst our investigator considered those points, they didnt change his opinion 
overall. Mr B asked an Ombudsman to consider the matter afresh.
My provisional decision
I sent Mr B and Pensionhelp my provisional decision on 10 August 2022. Ive included the 
relevant extracts below:
Im intending to reach a slightly different outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why.
This matter has clearly been a source of great concern to Mr B. He approached 
Pensionhelp having had some serious health issues the previous year. And his 
correspondence showed that, this to some extent, caused him to think about his pension 
provision. He was particularly concerned about whether his wife and family would be 
adequately provided for in the event of his untimely death. So, I can appreciate why, 
having asked Pensionhelp for advice about whether a DB transfer was in his best 
interests, he was concerned that it stopped short of giving that advice. He thinks it was 
unprofessional of Pensionhelp to have acted in the way it did.
Pensionhelp accepts that it didnt always get things right when it came to the various 
calculations it produced. And it also agrees that it could have done more to manage Mr 
Bs expectations. So, it offered him £250 compensation in recognition of the impact that 
had. But it doesnt seem to agree that its decision to walk away was triggered by Mr Bs 
actions.
Where theres a conflict, as there is here, I need to decide whats most likely to 
have happened based on the evidence Ive seen.
Ill say at the outset that Pensionhelp is entitled to decide who it does business with. 
And I agree with our investigator that its terms of business allow either party to 
disengage in appropriate circumstances. But even if it decides that it cant advise a 
particular consumer, Id still expect Pensionhelp to treat them fairly and reasonably. For 
the reasons Ill go on to explain, Im not satisfied that Pensionhelp always did so in Mr 
Bs particular case.
Whilst the information gathering process initially got underway quite smoothly, I can see 
that Mr B pointed out errors in Pensionhelps calculations (which it accepted and 
corrected). He also asked for various amendments to cashflow models, including up to, 
and after, the original deadline Pensionhelp had to give its recommendation. This clearly 
caused Pensionhelp further work. And from other evidence and comments Ive seen, it 
seemed to cause other concerns.Mr Bs since explained that he saw it as his responsibility to point out any errors and 
make sure the assumptions were right, so that Pensionhelp could produce the best 
possible report for him. I can appreciate that. And whilst I agree that Pensionhelp was 
accommodating to the extent that it made the changes, I think there were other things it 
could have done at an earlier stage to support Mr B through the process. I say that in 
particular because theres no evidence Mr B was an expert in pensions or pension 
transfers. And I think some of his correspondence indicated that. And, clearly, deciding 
whether to transfer his DB pension was a big decision for Mr B to make.
But, bearing in mind the deadline that Pensionhelp was already up against and the fact 
that Mr B didnt have a fixed idea of how much income hed need to take (hence modelling 
various different scenarios to allow greater flexibility), I think Pensionhelp could have 
explained that the advice process wasnt necessarily intended to cover every eventuality. 
So, unless Mr B was particularly worried about running out of pension in his retirement (Im 
not persuaded that was his overarching concern, not least because he had another DB 
pension and an income protection policy, which paid a guaranteed income until age 65) it 
could have told him that it may not be practical or necessary for it to continually revise the 
cashflow models if the ones it had produced were already a good estimate - especially 
given the hard deadline it was working to and that potentially being in jeopardy.
Pensionhelp seems to have given an explanation of that kind later on - when providing a 
timeline of events alongside its response to Mr Bs complaint. It said (in relation to further 
changes having been requested) This is not how an advice process should work, 
regardless of who you engage to provide professional services. Seemingly regular fluidity 
of objectives, serves no useful purpose whatsoever. Its a pity Pensionhelp appears not to 
have given a similar explanation sooner.
I think it could also have explained that circumstances can and do change between 
taking advice and reaching retirement age. For instance, the amount of income a 
consumer might think they need in retirement may well change due to sudden and 
unforeseen circumstances. And that may well impact how long the pension needs to last. 
Again, whilst I can see that Pensionhelp did give this kind of explanation when 
responding to Mr Bs complaint, had it done so earlier, Mr B might have been better 
informed. And he could then have made a decision about whether making these changes 
was more important to him, even if it meant jeopardising the fairly tight deadline hed 
given Pensionhelp to complete the advice process.
I also dont think Pensionhelp was clear about the reasons for its decision to walk 
away. Having carried out its information gathering and completed multiple calculations, 
including cashflow models, it wrote to Mr B saying his wasnt the type of pension it 
could advise on. Im not persuaded by that position.
I say that because if Mr Bs pension was truly something it couldnt advise on, its 
reasonable to assume that would have come to light at the outset when the introducer 
firm got in touch. And it seems unlikely it would have gone to the trouble of doing a fact 
find and all of the other work if it didnt think it could advise Mr B.
And Mr B has understandably questioned, given that Pensionhelps core business seems 
to be advising on DB transfers, why his was one that Pensionhelp didnt feel able to 
assist with. Hes explained its letter didnt make any sense to him. I think he has a point 
here.
In any event, Im not persuaded by the reasons that Pensionhelp has cited for walking 
away. And, on balance, I think its decision was linked to Mr Bs actions and 
communication. I can see that its decision closely followed a further request from Mr B to make amendments to forecasts  even though the original deadline for advice had 
passed. And, during a telephone call with him around that time Pensionhelp apparently 
referred to having done the analysis to death. Contrary to what its said since, I think 
this does tend to suggest that Pensionhelp was concerned, and possibly frustrated, by Mr 
Bs repeated requests.
Ive also seen a note, which seems to have been made following conversations with Mr 
B and the introducer firm. And whilst I dont know exactly what was relayed to each 
party, the note suggests Pensionhelp told the introducer firm it was disengaging with Mr 
B, indicating he didnt understand the process and challenges every action we take. I 
think this adds further weight to what I said earlier - Pensionhelps decision does appear 
to be linked to Mr Bs actions and communication. And, as Ive already suggested, had it 
done more to address this earlier, it may have avoided the toing and froing that then 
happened. Pensionhelp may even have felt able to give Mr B a personal 
recommendation at the end of the advice process. As it was though, it said it couldnt do 
that largely due to Mr Bs fluid objectives.
For completeness, Ill say here that Mr B initially indicated hed suffered a financial loss as 
a result of Pensionhelps decision. Thats because he wasnt able to confirm his intentions 
to his former employer by the deadline given. And whilst I understand that Mr B didnt 
ultimately transfer his pension, I believe his employer honoured the enhancements it had 
previously mentioned. So, I dont think theres been a loss to Mr B in that sense.
However, Mr Bs indicated that he suffered a loss of expectation. Id be inclined to agree 
with that. I say that because when he approached Pensionhelp, Mr B expected to be given 
a recommendation to help him make an informed decision. But thats not what happened. 
So (not withstanding that Pensionhelp has since told him that an initial assumption is a DB 
transfer isnt suitable) I can appreciate why Mr B might still wonder what would have 
happened if hed been given a recommendation about transferring. Ive taken this into 
account when deciding how Pensionhelp should put things right now.
In summary, whilst Im satisfied that Pensionhelp was entitled to make the decision it did, 
I dont think it went about things in a fair and reasonable way. Neither did it communicate 
with Mr B in clear terms. And I think the impact on Mr B has been greater than 
Pensionhelp has, so far, recognised.
Putting things right
I entirely accept that Pensionhelp did a fair amount of work on Mr Bs behalf before it 
walked away. But for the reasons Ive outlined, I think that could probably have been 
reduced had it properly supported Mr B early on in the process. And Im mindful that Mr B 
ultimately had to walk away without the thing he wanted  a recommendation from an 
expert about whether transferring his DB pension was in his best interests.
As Ive indicated above, I think Pensionhelps handling of things added to the worry that Mr 
B was clearly already experiencing. And hes described the shock he felt when 
Pensionhelp told him it was disengaging. I think it also caused confusion because it wasnt 
clear about its reasons for doing so. So, Im intending to say that Pensionhelp should pay 
Mr B another £200 compensation (on top of the £250 already offered) in recognition of the 
impact its actions and communications had on Mr B.
My provisional decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And Im intending to say that Pensionhelp should put 
things right as Ive set out above.Responses to my provisional decision
Pensionhelp said it had no further information to provide and would await my final decision.
Mr B has provided detailed comments although hes also indicated hes grateful for the 
considered report balance and the initial likely outcome. 
I dont propose to refer to all of the comments Mr Bs made. But they can broadly be 
summarised as follows: 
Mr B has described the concerted efforts he went to in order to ask Pensionhelp to 
correct fundamental errors in its forecasts. And the other ways he tried to engage 
with Pensionhelp. 
He accepts he did ask for a range of forecasts, but says they were only similar to 
those that the introducer firm (which apparently pulled out of the business of DB 
transfers) had given him previously. So, Mr B doesnt think he was asking too much 
of Pensionhelp. And it apparently responded along the lines that Mr B wasnt over 
expecting. 
Yet, shortly after, Pensionhelp made the decision to withdraw from its dealings with 
Mr B. And, as there isnt a full call recording available, Mr B says that there is no 
record of the very short attitude way it spoke to him. 
Mr B doesnt agree that theres been no actual financial loss. His basis for saying so 
is that most forecasts demonstrated hed be able to withdraw an income from an 
investment equivalent to the pension hes now in receipt of  if not better. So, whilst 
Mr B accepts thats difficult to account for, he maintains theres still been a loss. And 
he says that would also have to be combined with an immediate larger cash lump 
sum, which represents a clear short-term financial loss. Mr B also says that doesnt 
account for the fact that if he were to die early, his family would still have been better 
off with greater financial security if the transfer had been completed and available to 
them. As things stand, Mr B says his wife will benefit from a reduced pension that 
would never equate to the value of the fund.
Whilst Mr B says that the outcome of my decision in principle is more important to 
him, since Pensionhelp thought for some reason that he was unreasonable, hed like 
that record put right. Mr B feels he acted as a proactive customer but was treated 
as a nuisance for being interested in his own financial decision. 
Whilst Mr B respected my suggested award, he said it would be appreciated if an 
award commensurate with financial loss could be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im grateful to Mr B for taking the time and trouble to give me his detailed comments, which 
Ive considered very carefully. But, for reasons that Ill go on to explain, Im not going to 
change what I said in my provisional decision. 
Ive already said why I think Pensionhelps decision was linked to Mr Bs actions and 
behaviours. So, whilst helpful to see the additional context from Mr B about why he felt the 
need to get in touch with Pensionhelp in the way he did  including to correct its fundamental 
errors  none of the comments cause me to change my opinion on that front. In fact, they 
only help to reinforce the view Id already reached. So, I dont think its necessary for me to 
go into further detail about that. 
Whilst I can appreciate why Mr B might feel he (in the shorter term) and his family (in the 
event of his untimely death) might have suffered a financial loss by him staying in his DB 
scheme, Im not going to make an award in respect of a potential financial loss. I say that for 
a few different reasons.
Firstly, whilst noting Mr Bs comments that Pensionhelp indicated it probably would support a 
pension transfer, (and hes indicated he was minded to go ahead with that) Ive seen no 
evidence of a formal recommendation in a suitability report. Pensionhelp walked away 
before it got to that point. The amounts that Mr B says he and his family could have 
expected to receive from an alternative plan were based on a range of situations, some of 
which were hypothetical. Those include how the investment performed and the amount left in 
Mr Bs fund (and available to his wife and family) in the event of his untimely death. But 
given these particular circumstances, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to recommend 
compensation based on things that might not happen or couldnt reasonably be determined. 
In any event, this complaint isnt about the suitability of Pensionhelps advice. Its about its 
decision to walk away without giving a formal recommendation one way or the other. So, I 
havent considered whether it would or wouldnt have been in Mr Bs best interests to 
transfer out of his DB scheme. And on that basis, I can't fairly and reasonably say that 
Pensionhelps actions directly caused Mr B a financial loss. 
According to Mr Bs own evidence, there was a deadline within which he had to confirm to 
his former employer if he wasnt going to transfer (apparently due to the max cash lump 
sum that was on offer). But Mr B says there was no rush at all if he was going to transfer. 
Given the deadline set by the employer, I can certainly see why Mr B would have been 
concerned to find out, in March 2020, after the deadline had passed, that Pensionhelp 
wasnt making a recommendation at all, let alone one to transfer. And Mr B has suggested 
that had Pensionhelp not withdrawn from the transfer (Ive already said that theres no 
evidence of a formal recommendation being made) he could have gone to another financial 
adviser which had already given some advice and which was happy to undertake the work.
As far as I can tell that option remained open to Mr B. And in the absence of a rush to 
conclude the matter (although its possible the transfer value might have been revalued as it 
was only guaranteed until April 2020) I dont think Mr B needed to make a decision on 
whether to access his DB pension when he did. I appreciate though that he ran the risk of 
losing out on the max cash option that his former employer offered if he wasnt able to 
confirm his intentions by a specific deadline. Instead, whilst not ideal given the work that 
Pensionhelp had already done, I think he could have taken further advice from another 
pension advising firm that was prepared to engage with him and give advice. I dont think 
that Pensionhelps decision to withdraw from the process prevented that. So, as Mr B could 
have sought advice elsewhere and still gone ahead with the transfer if he wanted to, I don't 
find that Pensionhelp is responsible for any perceived financial loss (if indeed such a loss 
has actually occurred) because Mr B chose to take the benefits from his DB scheme when 
he did. I say that in particular because, having decided to stay in the scheme, even though Mr B couldnt confirm his decision by the deadline previously set, the employer still honoured 
the enhancements previously offered.
For all of these reasons, I remain of the view that the impact on Mr B was largely about the 
disappointment and loss of expectation when he learned that Pensionhelp was walking 
away. That being the case, it now needs to make an additional compensation payment to 
recognise the impact of that as Ive set out below. 
Putting things right
Pensionhelp Limited now needs to pay Mr B another £200 compensation (on top of the 
£250 already offered) in recognition of the impact its actions and communications had on 
Mr B.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. I require Pensionhelp Limited to put things right as Ive set 
out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision by 10 October 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman