DRN-1719181
Complaint
Miss W says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to AXA in 
this decision, rather than any other business. 
What happened
Miss W bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a store card. It covered her 
in case she was off sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss Ws store card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It gave 
an overview of what the policy was for and what it cost, then had a place Miss W could sign 
if she wanted to buy PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt want it. Miss W signed 
specifically for PPI, separately to signing for the card as a whole. So I think that AXA made 
Miss W aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the 
time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Miss W enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Miss W about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Miss W chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of her work benefits and offered her more comprehensive cover. And it 
meant she wouldnt have to ask her partner or family to help pay her store card  and there 
was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. So the policy could have 
been useful for Miss W in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Miss W could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think 
better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman