DRN-2235387
The complaint
Mrs A complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt give her an opportunity to set up a 
repayment plan to pay off arrears on her personal loan. 
What happened
Mrs A took out a personal loan with Lloyds in November 2017. The contractual monthly 
repayment was collected automatically by direct debit until May 2019. Mrs A cancelled the 
direct debit before Junes payment was due.
Lloyds wrote to Mrs A on 13 July and 3 August and asked her to get in touch about the 
arrears. The letters also stated a default notice would be issued if a payment wasnt received 
or a suitable way to make repayments wasnt agreed, and this would stay on Mrs As credit 
file for six years. 
A default notice was issued on 13 August and in the letter, Lloyds set out the actions it would 
take if it didnt receive a payment or agree a suitable way forward by 31 August. Mrs A 
contacted Lloyds on 17 August and said shed been unable to make payments due to 
personal circumstances. She said shed returned to work and was looking to work part-time 
from the following month. 
Lloyds went through Mrs As income and outgoings and noticed her disposable income was 
insufficient to pay even the regular monthly instalment. The adviser informed Mrs A he 
couldnt set up a plan to repay the arrears when the affordability assessment showed Mrs A 
couldnt afford her contractual monthly repayments. He also said it was likely her disposable 
income would be even less the following month when she went part-time. 
The adviser asked Mrs A if she knew what her revised income was going to be, but she 
didnt. He offered to place the account on hold for 30 days to give breathing space. Interest 
was also frozen. He told Mrs A her loan would be three months in arrears if Augusts 
payment wasnt received, and this could impact her credit file.
The 30-day period passed and on 15 October, Lloyds wrote to Mrs A and asked her to pay 
the full arrears on her loan. It said it would end the agreement and demand immediate 
payment of the total outstanding balance if arrears werent paid or a way forward wasnt 
agreed. The letter also explained Lloyds would register a default on the loan. It would also 
consider asking a debt collection agency to collect the full outstanding balance or selling the 
debt to an external company. 
On 12 November, Mrs A complained shed been unable to speak to Lloyds when she tried 
calling on 22 October. She said she wanted to set up a repayment plan to pay off the arrears 
and set up a direct debit for the monthly loan repayment. 
Lloyds said it couldnt comment on Mrs As attempts to get in touch in October as it couldnt 
trace any calls. It also said there were other methods Mrs A could have used to get in touch. 
Lloyds informed Mrs A it had registered a default and her loan had been passed to its 
recoveries department. It explained it couldnt set up a repayment plan until it had made a 
decision on next steps. But Mrs A could continue making manual payments in the interim.
Mrs A referred the matter to our service in January 2020. She said she was unhappy Lloyds 
didnt believe shed tried to get in touch, and that shed have to wait to set up a repayment 
plan. In April, she forwarded a letter from Lloyds which asked her to get in touch to discuss 
options for repaying the outstanding balance. Mrs A said she was frustrated as she could 
have paid off a huge chunk of her loan between November 2019 and April 2020. She 
subsequently told us she wanted Lloyds to pay £1,200 compensation for the considerable 
embarrassment, upset and inconvenience shed suffered.
Lloyds wrote to Mrs A in July 2020 and informed her it had instructed a debt collection 
agency to arrange collection of the outstanding amount.
Our investigator looked into Mrs As concerns and concluded Lloyds hadnt done anything 
wrong. She thought it offered support when Mrs A got in touch in August 2019. The 
investigator acknowledged Mrs A wanted to set up a repayment plan, but was satisfied 
Lloyds explained why it couldnt do this when the loan was transferred to recoveries. She 
thought Lloyds offered clear information on how Mrs A could make payments to reduce the 
arrears while it decided on next steps. But payments werent received during this period.
Mrs A disagreed with the investigators findings. She said she wasnt willing to make 
payments until Lloyds had confirmed its decision on next steps with her loan. She also said 
she couldnt understand why she couldnt set up a fixed repayment plan with Lloyds in 
November 2019, when she had been able to do this with other companies. Mrs A remained 
unhappy Lloyds didnt tell her at any point between November 2019 and July 2020 what 
department her loan was with.
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged. She thought Lloyds had initially considered 
a repayment plan, but the affordability assessment showed it wasnt affordable. It placed a 
30-day hold on the account which, at the time, Mrs A had said would help in making 
arrangements. The investigator also thought Lloyds provided clear information to Mrs A so 
she could start making payments even after the loan was transferred to its recoveries 
department.  
Mrs A didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, the 
matters been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs A feels very strongly about her complaint. But I would only make an award 
against Lloyds if I find it has done something wrong. 
Lenders are required to treat those in financial difficulty with forbearance and due 
consideration. There is no set way theyre required to do this.
I can see from the records provided that when Mrs A notified Lloyds of her circumstances, it 
took steps immediately to see how it could assist. It agreed to freeze interest. It also went 
through an income and expenditure assessment with Mrs A to consider a payment 
arrangement to reduce the arrears. Although it wasnt able to offer a payment arrangement 
at the time, Lloyds offered a 30-day breathing space to give Mrs A time to review her options. I consider these to be positive steps, meeting the requirement to treat a customer 
with forbearance.
I acknowledge Mrs As circumstances might not have changed much during the 30-day 
period. But Im satisfied Lloyds made it sufficiently clear to her the hold was for 30 days only. 
The temporary hold extended the original deadline date of 31 August for Lloyds to take 
actions set out in its letter dated 13 August. As it didnt hear back from her within this period, 
or receive a payment, I dont consider it was wrong of Lloyds to proceed with the actions it 
said it would take.
Mrs A states Lloyds didnt believe she tried getting in touch on 22 October. Id like to 
reassure her thats not the case. Its told us it doesnt doubt she called on that date. But 
notes or records arent available as the call wasnt successful. 
Mrs A states Lloyds letter dated 15 October suggested there was still time for her to get in 
touch. I think its important to note Lloyds issued a default notice on 13 August. This means it 
was entitled to default the account if a payment or a suitable way forward wasnt agreed by 
the extended deadline. 
Even if Mrs A had managed to speak to Lloyds on 22 October, Im not persuaded the 
outcome would have been any different. I say this because shes said she would have 
offered to set up a repayment plan to pay the arrears. But Lloyds had already demanded a 
full repayment of the arrears by that point. Even it was willing to accept a reduced payment 
arrangement for the arrears, I havent seen enough to conclude Mrs A would have definitely 
been able to afford one. So, I think the account would have defaulted regardless. And once 
this had happened, Lloyds would have sought to recover the full outstanding balance on the 
loan.
Our investigator has explained, and I agree, Lloyds gave a reason for why it couldnt set up a 
repayment plan when Mrs A got in touch in November 2019. It was in the process of 
deciding whether to sell the debt, pass it to a collection agent, or keep it under the control of 
its recoveries department. I know Mrs A is unhappy with the time it took for Lloyds to inform 
her of its decision, but I dont consider this would have impacted her credit file any more than 
it was going to  the account was to be defaulted. More importantly, Lloyds gave her the 
option to make payments and reduce her arrears while it was deciding on next steps.
Mrs As raised concerns about not being able to pay a chunk off her loan between November 
2019 and July 2020. From the available evidence, Im satisfied Lloyds told her on at least 
two occasions she could make payments manually during this time. The details of the 
account to be credited were set out in its letter dated 31 December 2019. I understand Mrs A 
was unwilling to make a payment until Lloyds had confirmed where her loan had gone. It 
would be unfair of me to hold Lloyds responsible for her decision not to make any payments 
when it had provided account details for her to continue making payments.
Finally, Ive considered Mrs As concerns about not being able to set up a repayment plan 
with Lloyds when shed been able to do so with other businesses. Its difficult to comment on 
decisions made by individual businesses without knowing the full facts and the extent of 
arrears. Its important to note the complaint Im deciding is about Lloyds actions. Having 
carefully considered the available evidence, Im satisfied Lloyds did consider a payment 
arrangement, but it deemed it wasnt affordable. I consider the steps it took next  giving her 
some breathing space and continuing to provide her with details of debt advice organisations 
 to be positive and showing due consideration.
 
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds has treated Mrs A fairly in relation to her loan arrears  with 
forbearance and due consideration. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything further. Id urge 
Mrs A to continue engaging with the debt collection agency and Lloyds regarding her loan.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman