DRN-2842725
The complaint
Mr B  on behalf of his limited company (W)  complains that Aspen Insurance UK Limited 
(Aspen) have unfairly declined his companys professional indemnity insurance claim.
What happened
W is a tour operator and holds a professional indemnity insurance policy with Aspen. It 
booked a trip for around 30 of its customers through Thomas Cook (another tour operator), 
which has since been made insolvent. But W said it made a mistake when making the 
booking. Rather than using its own ATOL license number when making the booking, it 
incorrectly used Thomas Cooks. 
The trip was unable to go ahead after Thomas Cook entered into administration, and the 
customers were advised to pursue an ATOL claim through the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) 
in order to claim their money back. The CAA paid out two such claims, but refused to cover 
any more after it came to light that W had used Thomas Cooks ATOL license when making 
the booking. As a result, W subsequently submitted a claim under its policy with Aspen for 
the costs to be covered.
However, Aspen declined to cover the claim as they said the policy specifically excluded 
liability claims that were related to the financial failure of suppliers (such as the insolvency of 
Thomas Cook). W complained that the claim had been declined unfairly. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as she was satisfied the claim had been 
declined fairly in line with the policy exclusion. W disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below.
The policy terms and conditions set out what is excluded from cover:
The underwriters shall not indemnify the insured in respect of
2.5 liability arising from or in connection with the insolvency or bankruptcy of the 
insured or of any other tour operator or any travel agent or supplier of services. 
I appreciate that W made an unfortunate error by using the ATOL number of the now 
insolvent tour operator Thomas Cook and, had it used its own details, the claims would have 
likely been paid out by the CAA. However, notwithstanding this mistake, Ws liability in these 
circumstances has still arisen as a result of the insolvency of Thomas Cook: but for the 
financial failure of the tour operator, the trip would have still gone ahead, so there would be 
no liability on W to now meet or refund any costs. Therefore, Im satisfied the exclusion 
clause cited above has been applied fairly in these circumstances, given that liability has 
arisen in connection with the insolvency of a tour operator. 
I also understand that W doesnt consider it fair that the insurer can escape liability as a 
result of the exclusion clause. But it is up to the insurer and their underwriters to choose 
which risks they are willing to cover. This is a legitimate exercise of their commercial 
judgment and the premiums they charge will reflect the extent of cover they are providing. 
I consider the exclusion clause itself to be clear, and the fact that Aspen has chosen not to 
cover risks or claims associated with tour operator insolvency does not mean that the 
exclusion clause is unfair. If W wanted a policy that did cover such risks, then it wouldve had 
to source a different policy and have paid the appropriate premium for this. I understand that 
W has also raised concerns about the sale of the policy. But given that Aspen did not sell it, 
this isnt something Im able to comment on within this decision, and any such complaint 
would need to be directed to the broker that did sell the policy. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to W, and I sympathise with the difficult 
circumstances it finds itself in due to the unfortunate error that was made. But Im not 
persuaded that Aspen has done anything wrong by declining the claim, as Im satisfied it has 
done so fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. I therefore will not be directing 
the insurer to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B  on behalf of 
W  to accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman