DRN-3250647
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied, when he handed back a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In March 2017, Mr G entered into a three-year hire purchase agreement to acquire a brand-
new car. The agreement reached maturity in March 2020, however due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, the car wasnt collected until 1 July 2020 by MBFS recovery agents  who Ill 
refer to as B.
An initial inspection was carried out at Mr Gs property. B identified six areas of damage and 
five missing items. It also noted the interior and exterior of the car was dirty. Mr G said he 
agreed with B about the issues it had identified. It estimated Mr G would need to pay around 
£1,584.05.
B carried out a second inspection on the condition of Mr Gs car on 8 July 2020. It said the 
following items were missing: 
1. Literature pack - £115.75
2. V5 registration document - £25
3. Spare key - £260
4. Alloy wheel key - £78
And it said the following damage was outside of fair wear and tear:
5. Left hand front wheel  polished alloy damage - £115
6. Right hand front wheel  polished alloy damage - £286.72
7. Left hand front tyre  middle tread 1.5mm - £181.36
8. Left hand right tyre  cracked - £181.36 
9. Right hand front tyre  inner tread 1.5mm - £181.36
10. Front bumper  scratched - £210
11. Left hand front wing  excessive damage - £671.69
12. Left hand front wing arch extension  scuffed (unpainted) - £30
13. Left hand right door  scratched - £210
14. Left hand right quarter panel  scratched - £170
15. Tailgate  excessive damage - £1,288.44
16. Rear manufacturer badge  broken - £29
17. Right hand front seat base cover  cut - £174.10
B also removed some of the charges it had previously identified. These were for two missing 
items, two areas of damage and the general interior and exterior being dirty. 
Unhappy with the charges, Mr G complained to MBFS. He said because the car wasnt 
collected at the end of the agreement, he incurred storage costs to keep the car. He said at 
the time the car was collected from him by B, B told him the charges would total around 
£1,500, which he says he agreed to. He said he noted B hadnt taken the spare key and 
literature pack, so he says he tried to call B, but he couldnt reach it. He said the damage to 
the tailgate wasnt there when the car left his property and B didnt mention this at the time of 
the inspection. He said he wasnt given the opportunity to have the repairs done himself. 
MBFS issued its response to Mr Gs complaint in October 2020. It said it had to carry out a 
second inspection as the first inspection was hindered due to the exterior and interior of the 
car being too dirty to carry out a full inspection. It said it hadnt received any correspondence 
from Mr G to confirm he had incurred a financial loss for the storing the car. And it said B 
hadnt caused any damage in transit and neither would B refuse to take the V5, spare key or 
the literature pack at the time of the first inspection. MBFS said Mr Gs outstanding balance 
was around £4,212.
Unhappy with this, Mr G referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint 
and said MBFS hadnt reimbursed him for his storage costs which totalled £5,184. He said 
he wanted MBFS to pay his storage costs and he said he disputed the charges for damage 
to the rear tailgate and payment for the key and information pack.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought most the charges were applied fairly 
in line with MBFS Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) and the industry standard - The British 
Vehicle Rental & Leasing Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. However, 
she didnt think it was fair for MBFS to charge for the damage for the right hand front alloy, 
the rear manufacturer badge or the seat base cover. She said Mr G hadnt provided 
evidence of the storage costs he said he incurred. And she didnt think it was likely Mr G had 
returned the spare key or the literature pack to B at the point the car was collected from him.
MBFS agreed with our investigator. Mr G disagreed and said that he still had the spare key 
and literature pack. He said he didnt agree to the damage to the tailgate and he said hed 
send this service a copy of his storage costs. 
Mr G remains unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
such as this is as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Gs 
complaint against MBFS.
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. MBFS arent members of the BVRLA, but Ive considered the BVRLA 
guidelines alongside MBFS VRS.
The VRS are set out in Mr Gs hire purchase agreement and these explain the standards 
that MBFS expected this car to meet on return. When Mr G acquired his car under the hire 
purchase agreement, he agreed to return the car in line with the standards set out in the 
VRS. And he agreed that MBFS would be entitled to charge him for costs of repairs and/or 
refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value, as 
compensation. 
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr G has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.Alloy damage
In relation to alloys, the VRS say the following damage is acceptable:
minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face.
And the following is not acceptable:
scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm.
BVRLA guidance says: 
Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. 
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable.
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. 
There should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels.
Ive looked at the photograph provided for the left hand front alloy where damage was 
identified by B. Whilst it hasnt been measured with a ruler, the photograph provided shows 
damage and scuffing in excess of 50mm. In light of this, Im satisfied MBFS is entitled to 
charge Mr G for the damage to the alloy as it falls outside of fair wear and tear.
Tyres 
In relation to tyres, the VRS say the following is acceptable:
Minimum remaining treat of 1.6mm across 75% of the tyre in line with current legislation
And the following is not acceptable:
Less than 1.6mm tread depth across 75% of the tyre including spare.
The BVRLA says for tyres:
All tyres, including any spare, must meet minimum UK legal requirements and comply with 
the vehicle manufacturers recommendations of tyre type, class*, size and speed rating for 
the vehicle.
There must be no damage to sidewalls or tread.
Bs report provides a photograph which shows the right hand front tyre tread is uneven and 
worn. It also states that middle tread of the tyre is 1.5mm. The photograph for the right hand 
front tyre also shows uneven tread. And B identified that the inner tread was only 1.5mm. 
The photograph for the left hand right tyre shows a crack in the sidewall of the tyre.  
In light of this, I think its likely the tyres didnt meet the requirements set out by the VRS and 
BVRLA, so the damage falls outside of fair wear and tear. It follows that I think MBFS are 
entitled to charge for the replacement tyres.
Scratches and scuffs
In relation to scratches to the body of the car and paint, the VRS say the following is 
acceptable:
light surface scratches not through the top coat which can be removed by polishing/ 
touching up.
They say the following isnt acceptable:
Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base coat and/or has 
caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out.
The BVRLA says for scratches to bumpers and the body and paint of a car:Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one 
panel is acceptable. 
And for bumpers and body mouldings, the VRS says the following is acceptable:
Scuff marks up to 50mm (2), which do not adversely affect the overall appearance of your 
vehicle
Ive looked at the photographs provided to show the scratches. The photographs show that 
the scratch to the left hand right door is around 50mm and a ruler has been used to measure 
this. Whilst the scratch to the left hand right quarter panel, doesnt show a ruler being used 
to measure the scratch, the scratch is more than 100mm. Both scratches have penetrated 
though the top coat, which isnt acceptable under the VRS or BVRLA. 
The scratch to the front bumper is more than 50mm and a ruler has been used to measure 
this. This is more than what is allowed under the BVRLA and the VRS. As the scratch 
exceeds 50mm and it penetrates the base coat, I think it affects the overall appearance of 
the car. 
The scuff to the left hand front wing arch extension doesnt show a ruler being used to 
measure the scuff. However, the scuff is clearly more than the 50mm and the primer is 
showing. 
Overall, as all the damage identified fall outside what is considered fair wear and tear under 
both the VRS and the BVRLA guidelines, I think its fair for MBFS to charge for all three 
scratches and one scuff that B identified.
Excessive damage
One of the areas that B identified excessive damage was the left hand front wing. Given this 
damage is on the body of the car, Ive applied the same VRS and BVRLA standards that Ive 
mentioned above for scratches and scuffs.
Ive looked at the photographs for the damage to the left hand front wing. The photographs 
show damage which is over 25mm and this has been measured with a ruler. Ive also seen a 
video of this damage which was taken during the first inspection. The video shows a large 
area where there are scratches which have penetrated the base coat. I think this damage is 
excessive and it affects the overall appearance of the car.
For the tailgate, the photographs show a dent and they show a scratch. The scratch is more 
than 50mm and penetrates the base coat. This is more than what is allowed under the VRS 
and BVRLA guidelines. There are also two dents on the same panel which measure over 
15mm. These are shown in the photographs with a ruler and also in the video which was 
taken at the time of the first inspection. 
The VRS say dented bumpers arent acceptable. And the BVRLA say Dents of 15mm or 
less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint 
surface is not broken.
Given there are two dents which are more than 15mm each and there is also a scratch on 
the same panel, I think the damage to the tailgate is excessive. I appreciate Mr G says the 
dents werent there when the car left his property, but these are visible in the video taken by 
B at Mr Gs property. So Im satisfied that the dents to the tailgate were present when the car 
was collected from Mr G. And whilst Mr G says he wasnt provided with an opportunity to 
repair any of the damage identified, he was provided with a copy of the VRS at the time he 
took out the agreement. It would have been down to Mr G to carry out any repairs before the 
car was handed back to MBFS. 
Overall, as the damage identified to the left hand front wing and tailgate falls outside what is 
considered fair wear and tear under both the VRS and the BVRLA guidelines, I think its fair 
for MBFS to charge for the damage identified. Missing items
Theres no dispute that the V5, literature pack, spare key and alloy wheel key were due to be 
returned with the car. Mr G hasnt disputed that the V5 or the alloy wheel key werent 
returned with the car. So given both these items were reported missing on both inspections 
and Mr G hasnt disputed this, Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr G didnt return 
these and so MBFS is entitled to charge Mr G for the cost of replacing these.
However, in relation to the spare key and literature pack, Mr G says B asked him for these 
items and so he provided them to B. He says when B left, he realised it hadnt taken the 
spare key or the literature pack. However B says it would have had no reason to not take 
both these items at the point it collected the car from Mr G. Given there are two conflicting 
version of events, Ive thought about what I think is most likely to have happened on a 
balance of probabilities.
B was required to check that the spare key and literature pack were available as part of the 
condition report and if so, retain these. So I think its likely on balance, that these items 
werent provided to B because if they were, I see no reason why B would report these items 
as missing, especially given Mr G has said he handed them over and B forgot to take them. 
In addition, Mr G signed the initial condition report and both these items were listed as 
missing. As Mr G had an opportunity to review this condition report, I think it would have 
been reasonable for him to have queried these charges and provided both these items to B, 
if the items were left behind.
Overall I think its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge for the spare key and literature 
pack, as I dont think on balance, they were provided to B at the time it carried out the 
inspection.
Storage costs
Mr G says as a result of MBFS not collecting the car when the agreement ended, he 
incurred storage costs of £5,184. Ive thought about whether MBFS did anything wrong when 
it collected the car on 1 July 2020 and the impact of this to Mr G.
MBFS collection agent, B, was closed between March 2020 and June 2020, as a result of 
the restrictions set out by the government due to Covid-19. Mr Gs car was collected on        
1 July 2020, which was a month after B reopened. I understand that other cars hadnt been 
collected for a period of around three months due to the impact of Covid-19, so this would 
have reasonably caused a backlog and caused a delay in the collection of Mr Gs car. This 
isnt something I think would be fair to hold MBFS responsible for. And Im satisfied MBFS 
arranged collection of the car as soon as it could.
I also acknowledge that Mr G looked after the car for longer than he anticipated. Mr G says 
he had no room for the car at his house, so he had to keep it in storage. But, Mr G hasnt 
provided any supporting information to show that he incurred any storage costs.
Overall, the car was only collected late as a result of the restrictions set out by the 
government and Mr G hasnt provided supporting information to show he incurred any 
storage costs. So it follows that I dont think MBFS need to do anything to put things right.
Putting things right
Since Mr Gs complaint has been referred to this service, MBFS has agreed to remove the 
charges for damage to the right hand front alloy, the rear manufacturer badge and the seat 
base cover. If it hasnt done so already, it should deduct these charges from the outstanding 
amount Mr G owes.My final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should follow my 
directions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman