DRN-4180612
The complaint
Mr S complains that Midland Credit Limited (Midland) didnt help him obtain credit to 
acquire a car when their website said they would help anyone.  
What happened
Mr S applied online to Midland for credit to acquire a car in 2023, but Midland responded 
swiftly to say that as Mr S only held a provisional driving license, they would be unable to 
help him. 
They suggested he could consider a joint application for finance if there was someone 
suitable to apply with, and Mr S subsequently re-applied jointly with his brother. 
Unfortunately, as his brother was a taxi driver, the panel of lenders Midland used also 
wouldnt consider this application, so Midland had to decline Mr Ss application again. 
Mr S complained about this in April 2023, saying that Midlands website says that they will 
help anyone, so they should change their website as its misleading. Midland responded to 
the complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt their website had been up and running taking 
applications for over 12 months, and nobody had complained before, so they felt it was fine 
and there was no material issue with it. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. An investigator here 
investigated the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said that they had reviewed the website 
and didnt agree it was misleading. They pointed out that it said as long as your monthly 
income after tax is £1,000 or more, we have lenders who will consider your application. 
They felt that as the website said they would consider applications, and nowhere did it say 
they would approve all applications, that this was fair. 
The investigator also explained that even if they felt the website was misleading, it wouldnt 
be in our power to ask them to change their website details, that would only be within the 
remit of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Mr S didnt agree with this view and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. He 
said it was unfair that an application wasnt even being made for him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time.
Its down to individual lenders whether they will progress an application for a consumer or 
not. They set their own criteria, and Im satisfied that Midland have lenders who will consider 
a variety of applicants and applications. 
In this instance, the panel of lenders used by Midland have deemed that they wouldnt 
accept a sole application with only a provisional driving license, which they are entitled to do. 
Similarly, theyve said they also wont consider applications from taxi drivers, which again, 
they are entitled to do. So, I cant say anything has been done wrongly or unfairly regarding 
the decision that the applications could not be progressed. 
With regards to the website, it doesnt say that all applications will be successful. It says they 
will be considered. Mr S doesnt believe an application has been made here, so he feels it 
hasnt been considered. But I dont agree with this. The lenders have looked at his online 
applications and declined them on the basis of their criteria about who they will lend to. That 
means his applications have been considered and unfortunately havent been successful. 
Alongside this, we do not have powers to ask a business to amend their website in 
circumstances like this. Id encourage Mr S to contact the FCA about this issue if he feels 
strongly that the advertising on the website is unclear or unfair. 
I can only consider the circumstances of his specific complaint. Here, I am satisfied that for 
his initial application, it was fair for Midland to tell him they didnt have a lender who would 
accept a sole application from someone with only a provisional driving license. And Im also 
satisfied it was fair, after discussing a potential joint application, that this was also then 
declined due to Mr Ss brothers occupation. 
These are lending criteria set by the panel of lenders used by Midland, and the applications 
have been considered and declined based on not meeting lending criteria. Alongside this, I 
dont feel the description on Midlands website is unfair or has misled Mr S into anything. 
Im sorry that Mr S has been unable to obtain the credit he wanted, but Im satisfied that 
Midland have done nothing wrong here, and I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman