DRN-3606800
The complaint
Miss C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have refused to refund over £11,000 
she lost as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Miss C authorised the disputed payments she made to 
Xchangepro using her HSBC debit card (where her funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer Kryptoknights from her crypto wallet). The payments 
were requested by her using her legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC, 
and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Miss C 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly unusual or suspicious. 
I appreciate that overall, Miss C has lost over £11,000, which is a significant amount 
of money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character 
transaction. It was spread over several separate and smaller increments over the 
space of four months which, in my judgment, would not have appeared particularly 
unusual or out of character such that they ought to have been regarded as 
suspicious or indicating that she might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. 
The payments were not large enough that either of them could be considered 
significantly unusual, and there were no other patterns of spending that would 
indicate fraud, such as a series of payments being made on the same day. 
There also wasnt any reason for HSBC to have suspected fraud by virtue of the 
merchant appearing to be suspicious, as the payments were sent to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange platform. So, I dont think there was any reason for the 
payments to be automatically blocked on this basis either.
Therefore, having considered the payments Miss C made to Xchangepro, Im not 
persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered HSBCs fraud 
monitoring systems, or that would have indicated she was in the process of being 
scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds 
after Miss C reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be 
recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these 
circumstances, Miss C used her debit card to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange 
platform before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, she 
wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances 
because the company she paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the 
purchase of cryptocurrency. Therefore, I do not think HSBC were under any 
obligation to pursue her chargeback claims any further when they were defended by 
the merchant. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Miss C, and Im sorry to hear she 
has been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman