DRN-3590145
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited settled a claim made on his 
motor insurance policy. He wants it to repair his car fully.
What happened
Mr P was involved in an incident and he made a claim on his policy. Two different repairers 
said that there was pre-existing damage to the cars bumpers with poor repairs. So they 
wouldnt repair the car. Mr P wanted all four alloys refurbished and the car resprayed. But 
Admiral said it would only pay for damage related to the claim.
Admiral offered Mr P cash in lieu of repairs. But Mr P said this wasnt sufficient. Mr P 
provided an estimate for repairs that was £3,000 higher. Admiral thought this was inflated. It 
made a second offer of cash without the discount it would receive from its garage. But Mr P 
remained unhappy with this and also that his courtesy car provision came to an end. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought it 
was reasonable for Admiral to rely on expert opinion that there was pre-existing damage. 
And she thought Admiral only needed to pay for repairs related to the claim. 
But she thought Admiral hadnt given Mr P opportunity to show that his quote was 
reasonable. And she thought he should now do this, and that Admiral should pay him £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. She also thought that Admiral was entitled 
to withdraw the courtesy car when it made the cash in lieu payment as it was no longer 
repairing the car. 
Admiral replied that it had rejected Mr Ps quote as it was inflated and included unrelated 
repairs. It said it hadnt refused to consider a quote provided by Mr P. It said Mr P hadnt 
offered to provide evidence that his costs were reasonable. So it thought it had reasonably 
relied on its engineers expert estimates of the repair costs. Admiral asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
Mr P replied that he still wanted his car fully repaired. He said hed paid his years premium 
but couldnt drive his car. He was unhappy that Admirals engineers hadnt assessed his car. 
And he wanted loss of use considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr P wants his car fully repaired. Our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and 
reasonably.
Admirals repairer said there was pre-existing damage to the bumpers on Mr Ps car that had 
been poorly repaired. It said it couldnt guarantee repairs to the accident-related damage 
because of this. And so it declined to repair the car. Admiral took the car to another 
approved garage and it was given the same response. Mr P said the car didnt have pre-
existing damage. But I think Admiral could reasonably rely on the expert opinion of the 
engineers. 
And so Admiral decided to settle the claim by paying Mr P cash in lieu of repairs. Im 
satisfied that this was in keeping with the policys terms and conditions:
Should we deem your vehicle repairable but are unable to complete or guarantee the 
repairs, we will offer you a cash sum to cover reasonable costs of parts and labour.
Admiral relied on an engineers estimate of the repair costs to arrive at a cash in lieu offer. 
Mr P argued that he couldnt restore his car to its previous condition for this amount. He 
wanted the car resprayed and all four alloys refurbished. He provided an estimate from his 
own repairer. 
I can see that Mr P thought that, as he wasnt at fault, then Admiral could reclaim its outlay 
from the other drivers insurer. But Admiral has a responsibility to minimise claim costs. I 
think Admiral was only responsible for repairing the damage caused by the accident. I think 
Admiral then reasonably agreed to remove the discount it would have obtained from its 
approved repairers to offer Mr P £1,957.93. And Admiral told Mr P this was its final offer.
Mr P told us in his complaint form that he had been asked to provide a second opinion from 
his own garage. And he did this. Admiral had warned Mr P that it couldnt guarantee that this 
would change its offer. But Admiral rejected the report as it said the costs were inflated. I can 
see they were about £3,000 higher than the estimates from Admirals repairer. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess what repairs are needed as this is a matter for the 
experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available 
evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
I can see from its file that Admiral rejected the estimate from Mr Ps garage because it said 
the labour costs were inflated. It later said that it included repairs that werent accident-
related. But It didnt specify these or explain which labour costs were inflated. And it didnt 
ask Mr P to provide further evidence to justify the estimate he had provided. It told him its 
cash offer was its full and final settlement of the claim. 
Admiral said Mr P hadnt offered further justification of his repairs estimate. But I think its up 
to Admiral to explain to Mr P how it made its decision and what he could do if he disagreed. 
And I cant see that it did this. It seems that Mr P was told he could obtain a second opinion, 
but this was rejected outright with no reasonable explanation. So I cant say that Admiral has 
justified its decision to reject Mr Ps garages estimate outright.
I dont think this was fair or reasonable. I think this caused Mr P trouble and upset. Our 
Investigator thought Admiral should pay Mr P £150 compensation for this. I think thats in 
keeping with our published guidance for the impact on Mr P, so I think thats fair and 
reasonable. Admiral has said that it will consider further evidence provided by Mr P to justify 
his garages estimate. I think its for Mr P to discuss this with Admiral if he wishes to 
proceed. 
Mr P was unhappy that Admirals engineers hadnt assessed his car. But I think they can 
reasonably rely on reports from the garages. Mr P said he was without his car and paid his 
years premium. But I think Mr P could have mitigated his losses by accepting Admirals offer 
as an interim payment and get his car repaired. So I cant say that Admiral is responsible for 
Mr Ps loss of use or that it needs to compensate him for this. And I think Admiral was not 
required to provide a courtesy car once it had made its cash offer to settle the claim. 
Mr Ps policy is an annual contract, even though he may pay for it by monthly instalment. As 
a claim has been made, and the policy has been used, the full years premium would always 
be payable.
 Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr P £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman