DRN-2726834
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a home insurance policy that 
covered buildings and contents.
Any reference to Barclays includes its agents. 
What happened
In June 2016 Mrs V took out a home insurance policy with Barclays. Barclays have said the 
policy has renewed yearly since. 
Mrs V has told us she tried to make a claim on her policy in 2020 when an issue with a 
radiator caused some flooding to her house. Mrs V says she became aware at this point that 
the policy had two separate no claim protection options  one for the buildings part of the 
policy and the other for the contents part. Barclays said Mrs V had no claims protection on 
the contents part of her cover - but not on the buildings cover. 
Mrs V was unhappy about this and complained to Barclays as she says this wasnt brought 
to her attention when she was sold the policy. Mrs V has also expressed dissatisfaction at 
how her claim has been handled.
Barclays looked into Mrs Vs complaint about the sale of the policy, but didnt uphold it. 
Theyve said Mrs V was provided with a quote showing the cost and details of the cover. 
They also say the insurer later sent Mrs V welcome documents, including a policy schedule 
which fully detailed the cover she was taking out. 
Mrs V remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service for an independent 
review. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. He found 
that after the sale and renewal, Mrs V was sent documents including the policy schedule and 
it was her responsibility to check the cover and ensure it was suitable for her needs. 
Mrs V didnt accept our investigators findings and the complaint has now been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mrs V that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
My decision only considers whether or not this policy was mis-sold to Mrs V - not the claim 
aspect. Ive noted that Mrs V has already raised a separate complaint against the insurer  
Im satisfied, based on what Ive seen and heard that this policy was sold in branch on a 
non-advised, information only basis. This is important as it means Barclays needed to give 
Mrs V the key, important information about the policy to allow her to decide if the policy was 
right for her needs or not. Crucially, they didnt have to check that the policy met her needs 
or give her advice.
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, no evidence such as documents or records of any 
conversations that took place at the point of sale are now available. Given the sale was 
almost five years ago, this isnt surprising. Therefore, I dont know what was discussed about 
the policy in branch.
However, the evidence I do have is Mrs Vs testimony and copies of documents sent 
afterwards and at renewal. 
I think its possible that the Barclays adviser didnt cover off that Mrs V wasnt protecting her 
buildings no claims or offer it as an option. Ive given this scenario some thought. Mrs V has 
told us that shes generally risk adverse and wouldve chosen the option to protect her no 
claims on buildings - just as shed done on the contents part of the policy. 
But equally, I wouldnt necessarily expect the adviser to have drawn this to Mrs Vs attention. 
I say this because in non-advised sale situations, the expectation is that the seller will draw 
the key terms of the insurance to a customers attention either verbally or if giving 
paperwork, in a generally clear and sufficiently prominent manner. There isnt an expectation 
that every single term or part of the policy will be talked about in detail.
Although Barclays had a responsibility to give Mrs V the key information about the policy 
when selling it, there was also a responsibility on Mrs V to check that what shed agreed to 
was right for her. This is particularly relevant here given that Mrs V stated in her initial 
complaint to our service:
As I am a naturally cautious person I have always selected no claims protection 
especially as I have never made a previous claim so it would not make any sense to 
leave myself at risk.
Given what Mrs V has told us about her attitude to risk, I dont think it wouldve been 
unreasonable for her to take the necessary steps to check the paperwork so that what shed 
agreed to take out met her needs - if she was uncertain or in a scenario where the branch 
discussion left her uncertain. In my opinion, the main reason Mrs V will have been taking out 
insurance was to protect her home and contents in the unfortunate occurrence of an 
unexpected insured event happening  as with the radiator in 2020.
I dont consider her main reason for taking this a particular policy was because she wanted 
no claims protection. I note that similar documents were sent at each point of renewal, but 
Mrs V, it seems, never realised or never raised the no claims protection as an issue with 
Barclays until she tried to claim on the policy.
Mrs V was sent paper work after the sale which outlined what exactly shed agreed to take 
out. Included was the following wording:.-Check Your Payment Confirmation and Your Policy Schedule to ensure the 
cover youve selected fully meets your needs.
-If anything is incorrect or if you need to make any changes, please contact your 
nearest Barclays branch straight away.
Very early in the policy schedule, its stated:
Covers you haven't chosen
Were committed to making sure you always know what youre covered for and what 
youre not. Here are the other cover options that are available to buy at an additional 
cost.
Buildings protected no claim discount along with seven other options are outlined as not 
being taken. The paperwork also states:
Amend your policy by adding or removing covers quickly and easily. To do this 
online youll need to register for MyPolicy if you havent already done so. Visit 
barclays.co.uk/homeinsurance to log in or register or contact Customer Services on 
the number shown on your letter.
Mrs V has told us: 
Each year that passed there was an opportunity for Barclays to offer this protection 
and I feel it was negligent not to offer this when it was clearly to my benefit a lost 
opportunity to enhance a service they were selling.
But Barclays were under no obligation to offer Mrs V additional cover at each point of 
renewal. However, I note that at each renewal it seems (Ive only seen copies of the paper 
work sent after the sale and the 2020 renewal) the policy schedule stated: You have 
[number of years] years No Claim Discount but you have not selected the Protected option. 
In my opinion, Barclays made it clear that the option to take the additional no claims 
protection hadnt been availed of and outlined how Mrs V could add it or other add-ons.
Im satisfied that the paperwork sent to Mrs V sufficiently outlined that she hadnt protected 
her no claims on the buildings section of the policy and - on balance, overall I dont find that 
this policy was mis-sold. 
Mrs V wants her policy amended to have no claims protection added to the buildings section 
of the policy. But that isnt something Ill be directing Barclays to do as this complaint 
concerns the sale of the policy and I havent made a finding that theyve done anything 
wrong. Mrs V has the option of speaking to the insurer about any policy amendments she 
wishes to make. 
I know Mrs V will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute with Barclays  can do for her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman