The complaint
Mr R complains about how Equifax Limited linked a county court judgment (CCJ) to his 
credit file. 
I looked at this complaint in April and reached a different view to our investigator whod been 
dealing with it. I sent out a provisional decision explaining my views, and asked Mr R and 
Equifax to let me know their thoughts. Im now going to make a final decision. 
Im not going to repeat everything that was in my provisional decision, just the bits that are 
needed to understand the complaint and my reasoning about it. 
What happened
In March 2019, Equifax linked a CCJ to Mr Rs credit record. While the address details for it 
were a match for Mr R, the first and last names were both one letter different to his name. Mr 
R feels this makes the name totally different to his, and hes shocked its been linked to him. 
In response to Mr Rs complaint, Equifax said Mr R would need to prove the CCJ wasnt 
meant for him before they would remove it. Our investigator felt that was a reasonable 
response, as it seemed likely the CCJ had been meant for Mr R. Although I felt it was more 
likely than not the CCJ was intended for Mr R, I explained in my provisional decision that 
there was more Equifax should have done when Mr R disputed their decision to add it to his 
credit record. 
In response to my provisional decision, Equifax have now removed the CCJ from Mr Rs 
credit record. Theyve also agreed to pay him £200 I said would recognise the inconvenience 
caused to Mr R. Mr R also replied to my provisional decision, saying he felt the 
compensation should be higher, and again making the point that he felt the CCJ was nothing 
to do with him at all. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im still of the view there was a mistake in the name on the CCJ, given Equifax couldnt find 
any trace of a person with the name as it was spelt. Equifax seemed to take a guess that the 
CCJ was meant for Mr R, but it would have been better to challenge the inaccuracy instead.
Had that been done, I think given how close the spellings of the names are, and given the 
address linked to the CCJ exactly matches Mr Rs, its likely whoever was seeking the CCJ 
would have tried to correct the error, and have the CCJ put in Mr Rs name. The CCJ 
wouldnt simply have gone away.
DRN-1883400It also shouldnt have been for Mr R to try to prove the CCJ wasnt meant for him. The 
Information Commissioners Office [ICO] has some guidance on how disputes in credit 
records should be handled, which Ive quoted here from a September 2014 findings report.
When a consumer contacts a CRA [credit reference agency] to raise a query about an 
entry on their credit file they believe to be inaccurate, the CRA must apply a Notice of 
Dispute to the entry, raise the dispute directly with the company that supplied the data 
and respond to the individual within 28 days to let them know the outcome.
Equifax should have taken this sort of approach, rather than telling Mr R he needed to prove 
the CCJ wasnt for him. 
Putting things right
Since I wrote my provisional decision, Equifax have contacted the Registry Trust (who are 
responsible for recording the CCJ) and confirmed the name on the CCJ is spelt differently to 
Mr Rs. This seems to have led Equifax to remove the record of it from Mr Rs credit record. 
This is in keeping with the steps I said should be taken to resolve this matter, so Ill make 
those actions part of this final decision. 
From Mr Rs comments in response to my provisional decision, and to our investigator 
previously, I can understand this situation has caused him a lot of upset. I understand his 
concerns for his professional status due to having a CCJ against his name that he didnt 
think should be there. And I can see hes spent time contacting the Registry Trust and the 
courts about this matter too.
I think some of that trouble and upset would have been avoided if Equifax had provided a 
reasonable service. But equally, I think some upset was inevitable, as this CCJ seems more 
likely than not to be aimed at Mr R. If Equifax had acted more reasonably, I think Mr R would 
still have had to do something about this CCJ being aimed at him.
While I note Mr R wants a higher amount of compensation, Ive not seen anything new that 
makes me think £200 isnt the right figure here. This recognises Mr R was likely to always be 
upset by this CCJ, as I think its probably aimed at him. But it also recognises that Equifax 
shouldnt have added to that by adding it to his credit file despite its errors, and then telling 
him it was his job to correct the errors. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint about Equifax Limited. They have taken some steps now to put 
this right, but for completeness, the following actions are needed.
1. Mr Rs dispute with the CCJ should be noted and taken up by Equifax with the
Registry Trust, as per the ICO guidance noted above.
2. Unless Equifax receive confirmation the CCJ relates to Mr R, it shouldnt be recorded
on his credit file.
3. Equifax should pay £200 compensation to Mr R for the added trouble and upset
theyve caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.Paul Mellor
Ombudsman