DRN-3593293
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by D2 Financial Solutions (UK) Ltd (D2) to transfer
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial
loss.
What happened
In 2018 Mr S was introduced to D2 by his existing financial adviser to discuss his pension
and retirement needs.
D2 completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr S circumstances and objectives. D2
also carried out an assessment of Mr S attitude to risk, which it deemed to be lowest
medium risk  a score of four on a scale of one to ten.
On 19 December 2018 D2 advised Mr S to transfer his pension benefits into a personal
pension and invest the proceeds in a with-profits based investment with a well-known
investment management group. The suitability report set out a number of reasons for this
recommendation  but in summary the key reasons were:
to give Mr S immediate access to around £85,000 tax-free cash lump sum to enable
him to purchase a house outright improving the quality of his and his wifes lives,
which was the main objective.
it was D2s opinion that securing a mortgage to fund the house purchase would be
unlikely given Mr S level of unsecured borrowing and the short term to his expected
retirement, and because Mr S didnt want to extend his borrowing.
the option of taking benefits immediately from Mr S DB scheme wouldnt meet his
objective because the cash lump sum available wasnt enough to fund the house
purchase and he didnt need the income while he was still working.
to provide flexibility so that Mr S could control the amount of income he needed
according to his circumstances  for example when he retired at 62 and then later on
when he reached state pension age.
despite the critical yield of 20.75% being unachievable, the need for Mr S to 
purchase a home using the available tax-free cash was much greater.
In October 2020 Mr S complained to D2 about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr S
began by saying that he thought the advice had come from his existing adviser  he hadnt
spoken to D2. He then went on to detail his complaint. In summary he said that he was
advised to opt out of his DB pension scheme  it wasnt true that hed already opted out. He
said this was the only pension he had to provide for him and his wife in retirement. 
He said that he wasnt told about the guaranteed income he was giving up and the risks he 
was taking  the focus of the advice was about how much he could take from his pension 
straight away.
Mr S also said that he was told he could take more money from his pension but wasnt told
about the tax implications. Because hes made further withdrawals, he says hes had to pay
additional tax, which hes been chased for and hes also incurred fines. Mr S said the
purpose of the advice was to look at how he could buy a house. He said he believed he
couldve taken a mortgage - he couldve taken early retirement from his DB scheme using
the lump sum and pension to help with the mortgage while also providing a guaranteed
income in retirement.
D2 didnt uphold Mr S complaint. In summary it said that Mr S had chosen to opt out of his
pension scheme several weeks prior to its involvement and it was satisfied that Mr S
understood who he was dealing with following the introduction via his existing adviser. It said
Mr S main priority clearly documented in the advice paperwork was for him to secure a
home because his current living conditions were a source of great stress. It said it
considered whether Mr S could take out a mortgage  but given he had no deposit and had
unsecured debts, it believed this option was unlikely.
It said early retirement from Mr S DB scheme was also considered  but this was
discounted because the lump sum wasnt enough for his intended house purchase and the
pension income, which he didnt need wouldve been taxed at 41%. It said that transferring
his DB scheme benefits would give Mr S the cash he needed, leaving a pension fund which
could be used to fund his retirement. It said that the risks were considered and explained,
but the compromise of giving up guaranteed income was the trade off to achieve Mr S
objectives.
In answer to the point Mr S made about paying extra tax on further withdrawals, it said that
its advice was not to take any income from his pension and that the responsibility for any
ongoing advice lay with his existing adviser - so it wouldnt consider this part of his
complaint.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. I issued my provisional decision of July 2022 in 
which I said I was likely to not uphold the complaint. In summary I said that, in isolation the 
financial viability of the transfer of Mr S DB scheme to a personal pension didnt appear 
suitable. But overall I thought there were other compelling reasons which led me to believe 
that in Mr S particular circumstances at the time, it was in his best interests to transfer out.
D2 agreed with my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add.
Mr S disagreed. In summary he said that he knew nothing about D2 and didnt have any 
contact with them. He said nothing was explained about taking a mortgage and says he 
wishes his pension hadnt been touched.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, while I know this will be disappointing for Mr S, Ive decided not to uphold 
the complaint and my reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it
is unsuitable. So, D2 should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate
that the transfer was in Mr S best interests (COBS 19.1.6).Before I turn to the matter of the financial viability of the transaction, Mr S has repeated the 
point that he didnt have any contact from D2 and it appears he doesnt understand its 
involvement in matters. As I said in the background above and as documented in the advice 
paperwork, Mr S was introduced to D2 by his existing financial adviser for the purpose of 
receiving advice about his existing pension. This wasnt something his existing financial 
adviser was permitted to do, so he referred Mr S to an adviser that had the necessary 
regulatory permissions to do so. Im satisfied D2 provided the advice to Mr S and this is why 
it is a party to this complaint. 
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17 /9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer, which I'm able to refer to was published
for the period before 1 October 2017 and is 3% per year for four years to retirement. The
share returns that were used to compile this discount rate wouldnt have been significantly
different by the time of transfer and, if anything, the bond returns would have got lower. So, I
think it still gives an approximate guide to the upper end of potential future returns.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
Looking at the transfer value comparator D2 produced, this shows that Mr S would need a
sum in excess of £700,000 to invest at a risk-free return to provide the same benefits as the
DB scheme at age 60 (the schemes normal retirement age) assuming a full pension was
taken. Mr S transfer value was around £313,000. So the critical yield, or growth rate
required to match Mr S benefits at age 60 was 20.75%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr S
lowest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in
Mr S giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, I think Mr S was likely to
receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at
retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk  the return needed was
more than six times the discount rate.
So based solely on this reason, I dont think the transfer out of the DB scheme was in
Mr S best interests. But financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer
advice  something D2 has argued in this case and indeed acknowledged in its suitability
report. Its possible there are other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite
providing overall lower benefits. And I think this is relevant in Mr S case, which I
will explain below.
Flexibility and access to tax-free cash
It is not disputed that Mr S main objective, and the reason he sought advice from D2 was
because he wanted to buy a house. It appears from what is recorded in D2s advice
paperwork that Mr S and his wifes domestic and living arrangements were difficult. And 
again Mr S hasnt disputed this. This is because they were living with family having been 
forced to move out of their rented accommodation, which was the source of stress for both 
Mr S and his wife. It appears that Mr S wifes health was already poor and their living situation was making things worse. So I think that Mr S objective was reasonable in the 
circumstances and in my view was somewhat pressing.
Mr S didnt have any savings or other assets he couldve used to meet his objective and buy
a house outright. And because he didnt have any savings, notwithstanding that its recorded
that Mr S didnt want to take out a mortgage and take on further debt, a mortgage for the full
amount Mr S needed wasnt possible anyway. I dont think any lenders at the time in 
question were offering 100% mortgages.
So I think Mr S had a need to access a lump sum. And in this case a need to access his tax-
free cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a 
later date when he planned to stop working  recorded as being at age 62. By accessing his 
tax-free cash, which was around £85,000, it appears that Mr S wouldve been able to meet 
his objective and purchase a house outright (its recorded that Mr S thought this was 
sufficient, but he would consider a small mortgage if the purchase price was slightly higher - 
Ill discuss this later on.)
Although this likely meant that Mr S wouldnt be able to take as much income from his
pension as he wouldve been entitled to through the DB scheme, I think this was necessary
in the circumstances. And given Mr S intended retirement age of 62, I think transferring to a
personal arrangement would have allowed Mr S to draw enough income from the personal
pension to meet his needs until his state pension became payable at 67. I also think that if
Mr S followed D2s advice to join and contribute to his employers defined contribution 
scheme, this would also have been a useful way of boosting his income in retirement.
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr S objective couldve reasonably been met by staying
in the DB scheme and taking early retirement. But I dont think that it could have. I say this 
because Mr S was entitled to take tax-free cash of around £63,000 from his DB scheme, 
which was significantly below the amount he said he needed to buy a house. Ive already 
said that Mr S didnt have any savings to make up the difference  so it wouldve required Mr 
S to borrow money.
Im mindful its documented that Mr S didnt want to take on additional borrowing  despite 
Mr S saying that nobody mentioned anything about a mortgage. But Im not persuaded this 
was a likely viable option in any event. This is because between Mr S and his wife they had 
unsecured debt, including a £20,000 loan, which they were making monthly repayments 
towards of around £1,400. And according to their monthly income and expenditure analysis, 
it appears they were spending all of their income  otherwise I think they wouldve had some 
cash savings put aside.
Im mindful that Mr S would have been in receipt of additional income in the form of a
reduced pension had he taken the early retirement option. But even taking account of this, 
coupled with the relatively short loan term Mr S would have had available to him (around six 
to seven years until his intended retirement age for example), I think affordability was a likely 
issue. Im also mindful here that the property Mr S found and ultimately bought was just over 
£100,000  so hed have needed to borrow twice the amount originally envisaged, which I 
dont think was viable.
I can see that Mr S says he believes he could have taken a mortgage. But in addition to what
Ive said above about this being unlikely in my view, I can see that when Mr S found the
house he wanted to buy, rather than consider a mortgage at this stage for the difference as
its recorded he said he would do, he withdrew additional funds from his pension instead. And
he did the same again when he needed more money to carry out some house repairs. I think
this is significant, and to my mind it demonstrates that Mr S wasnt prepared to take a
mortgage under any circumstances.Mr S says he did this because he wasnt getting any ongoing advice from anyone. But D2
has provided file notes which indicate that Mr S approached his existing financial adviser
prior to making the extra withdrawals and that that the subject of taking a mortgage was
raised with him. So it appears that Mr S also had an opportunity to consider taking a
mortgage at this stage but chose not to. Overall Im not persuaded the available evidence
supports what Mr S says.
In addition to Mr S main objective not being met by remaining in the DB scheme, I dont
think Mr S income needs and his other objective of wanting to retire at 62 could be achieved
by staying in the DB scheme and taking immediate benefits. Mr S would have been entitled
to around £9,400 a year  but this wouldnt have met the £1,200 a month he said he needed
at age 62, despite the increases that would have applied in the interim. He wouldve had an
income shortfall for around five years before he was entitled to his state pension. So I think
Mr S did have a need for flexibility and the option to vary his income, which could only have
been met by transferring out of the DB scheme.
Summary
So while I accept that, based solely on the financial viability of the transfer of Mr S DB 
scheme to a personal pension it wasnt suitable, I think there were other compelling reasons
which lead me to believe that in Mr S particular circumstances at the time, it was in his best
interests to transfer out. Mr S primary objective was to purchase a property to provide long-
term security and certainty for him and his wife. Given Mr S didnt have any other assets
available to him to meet his objective, I think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free
cash earlier than his normal scheme retirement age. And only a transfer to a personal 
arrangement would provide what Mr S needed because of the enhanced cash lump sum 
amount on offer.
By transferring Mr S was giving up a guaranteed and increasing income in retirement and his
pension income was likely to be lower than he wouldve otherwise have been entitled to. But
I think that in the circumstances this was necessary. And while Mr S subsequently went on
to make significant further withdrawals from his pension, based on D2s advice that Mr S
should only take his tax-free cash entitlement leaving the remainder of the funds invested for 
later on, I think he wouldve likely been able to draw enough income from his personal 
pension to meet his needs until his state pension became payable.
For these reasons I dont think that D2s recommendation was unsuitable or that it didnt act 
in Mr S best interests.
In closing and for the sake of completeness  Im satisfied that D2 wasnt involved in the 
subsequent withdrawals Mr S made from his pension. So whether or not he was told about 
the tax implications of doing so isnt something I need to consider here. And secondly Im 
satisfied the evidence shows that Mr S opted out of his pension scheme on 11 September 
2018, which was prior to Mr S receiving the advice from D2. So I think Mr S chose or was 
possibly advised to do this prior to D2s involvement in things.
 
But even if I thought D2 had advised Mr S to opt out of his DB scheme, because I dont think 
D2s recommendation to transfer out was unsuitable, this doesnt affect my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons above Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022. Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman