DRN-2693291
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr S says MBNA Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
I sent Mr S and MBNA a provisional decision on 17 February 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the policy had been mis-sold. In that decision, I said:
There isnt still a recording of the phone call where this policy was sold  which is 
unsurprising given all the time thats passed. But from what Ive seen of MBNAs sales 
process from the time, staff were directed to explain the policy was optional and only set it 
up with the customers consent. And here, Mr S had already had his card for around two 
years before he was sold PPI, so he wouldve known he didnt have to buy PPI to get 
approved for his card. Ive not seen any wider problems with MBNAs sales process from 
the time, nor anything which would show that Mr S was unfairly pressured or misled into 
having PPI here. So on the balance of probabilities, I think its most likely that MBNA made 
it clear Mr S didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it at the time  though 
I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
MBNA didnt give Mr S tailored advice about buying the insurance, so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. It did have to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to 
decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
his mind. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like Mr S was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. He 
only had the standard statutory sick pay through work which offered very limited 
protection, and the PPI wouldve paid out on top of that and given him more 
comprehensive cover. And he didnt have any other protection in place. So the policy 
would have been useful for Mr S in case something went wrong. And it was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mr S could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out. 
This means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But MBNA has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
 MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because MBNA didnt tell him, that was 
unfair. 
 To put that right, MBNA has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
17 March 2021. MBNA didnt add anything further. Mr S replied, which Ill talk about below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S explained that he didnt recall it being made clear during the sale that the PPI was 
optional or that he had a choice, and he recalled feeling he couldnt say no to it.
Ive thought carefully about this point. Because of all the years that have passed, there isnt 
still a recording of the call where the PPI was sold, so Ive had to consider whats most likely 
to have happened. As I explained in the provisional decision, Ive not seen any wider 
problems with MBNAs sales process  indeed, from what Ive seen, the staff were directed 
to make it clear the PPI was optional. And Mr S would have known he didnt have to buy PPI 
to get his card approved, since hed already had the card for around two years. Im also 
conscious that memories can and do fade over time, that buying insurance is not often 
memorable, and that I dont have any evidence which substantiates that Mr S was misled or 
unfairly pressured into buying PPI here. So I dont think I can fairly conclude that MBNA 
misled Mr S. I think its more likely that it wouldve been clear he didnt have to take out PPI, 
and that he chose it at the time.
Ive not found any other reason to say that this policy was mis-sold, either. So having 
reconsidered the case, I still conclude that MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr S. Though as I explained before, it does have to refund some of the cost of the 
PPI to him.
What the business needs to do
MBNA has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. MBNA should also pay back to Mr S any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
That means MBNA should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr S the 
difference between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. MBNA should also pay Mr S 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr S.
MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then I dont award any 
further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 Adam Charles
Ombudsman