DRN-3728266
The complaint
Mr R complains that a holiday home he financed through a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) was misrepresented to him.
What happened
Mr R took receipt of a holiday home in July 2018 and financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement with Black Horse. The home cost £59,500 and the finance agreement 
detailed a deposit of £20,000 and a total to pay of £76,581.20.
Mr R says that he was induced into the deal by the brokers of the credit agreement as he 
was promised extensive facilities would be built that included a pool, bar, restaurant, and a 
games area. He says he was also promised that the roads would be covered in tarmac and 
he complains that hes experienced inadequate WIFI coverage and that the site no longer 
claims to be 5 stars on its signage. He also says that he paid for decking within his hire 
purchase agreement but that hasnt been separately detailed and that it is now rusty. Mr R 
also says hes been told hell have to replace the holiday home after ten years, but he says 
thats not what his agreement says.
In August 2022 Mr R explained that hed agreed to voluntarily terminate his finance 
agreement and return the holiday home to Black Horse with nothing more to pay.
Our investigator didnt think there was evidence the holiday home had been misrepresented 
to Mr R and he has therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his holiday home under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about 
it. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for 
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes 
out the credit agreement.
If Mr R was given a false statement of fact by the leisure park, who brokered the deal, and if 
that false statement of fact led Mr R to enter into an agreement he wouldnt otherwise have 
entered into, Id think the agreement had been misrepresented to him and Id ask Black 
Horse to take some action.
The leisure facilities
Mr R has provided a copy of the Landscape Masterplan that is dated June 2018, the month 
before he signed the finance agreement. The plan says it is prepared for planning approval 
and the leisure park have explained they are no longer expecting to complete the work.
Ive not seen evidence that these developments were promised to Mr R. Ive not, for 
example, see a copy of any marketing literature that may have promised the facilities. It 
seems the plans were being considered but I dont think it would be fair to suggest planning 
proposals are promises or that Mr R was therefore provided with a statement that could 
reasonably have induced him to go ahead with the deal.
The roadways
I think its clear that the initial plan was to tarmac the roads, the leisure park have accepted 
that, and they clearly intended to do so as they have put hardcore in place. However, theyve 
subsequently explained that there are no longer any plans in place to do so.
Ive thought about whether Mr R would have been likely to proceed with the deal had he 
known those plans wouldnt go ahead but I dont think its likely that would have been the 
case. I think there are many other considerations that Mr R would have been likely to take 
into account before making that decision such as the sites location, the quality of the holiday 
home, and the general quality of the site, that would have been likely to be more important to 
him than the quality of the road surfacing. I think its clear the road surface didnt prevent 
access to his holiday home and I also bear in mind that its likely the quality of the home 
would have been the main concern as it could be moved in the future.
The surfacing plans were something that may have given cause for Mr R to complain about 
his site fees, but I dont think they could fairly be considered to be a reason for Mr R not to 
have proceeded with the finance application.
WIFI
Forum notes that Mr R has provided suggest the leisure park were aware that WIFI 
availability was not as good as they thought it should be. Those notes explain that the park 
were attempting to improve coverage and I think that may have been something that would 
result in Mr R complaining to the park about in relation to his site fees. But I dont think, for 
the same reasons Ive given for the roadways, that the promise of WIFI coverage would 
have been something that induced Mr R to enter into an agreement he wouldnt otherwise 
have entered into. 
The fee for improved facilities
If additional facilities were promised without an increase in site fees it could have been an 
inducement for Mr R to proceed with the financing of his holiday home. But Ive not seen any 
documentation that stipulates that, and the park have explained that they told all prospective 
residents there would be an increase of £1,000 in site fees if the new facilities were 
provided. I dont therefore think I have sufficient evidence to say there was a promise fees would remain unaltered or, as Ive explained, that new facilities were guaranteed. It seems 
the park decided not to go ahead with the fee increase anyway.
The signage
The park have explained that they decided to re-sign all of their parks and remove the star 
ratings. Theyve explained that was for technical reasons. Ive considered if Mr R would have 
proceeded with the deal had he known the signage would change but I dont think I have 
sufficient evidence to suggest that was the case. As the signage was changed across the 
group and not specifically for this site, I dont think Mr R would have thought it represented a 
downscaling of the sites quality ambitions.
Decking
I cant see the decking is listed on the finance agreement and Ive not seen sufficient 
evidence of its cost. I therefore dont think it would be fair to suggest Black Horse are 
responsible for the decking or its quality. But, even if Im wrong about that, the relevant 
legislation (The Consumer Rights Act (2015)) would give the business an opportunity to 
repair the decking and as Mr R has now retuned the motor home to Black Horse that is no 
longer possible, or necessary.
Home replacement policy
I think the requirement to replace or modernise the home can only fairly be considered to be 
part of Mr Rs license agreement with the park. I dont think there is sufficient evidence to 
suggest the park would have deviated from the license agreement they had formed with 
Mr R and I dont therefore think Mr R was given a false statement of fact or that, for those 
reasons, the finance could be said to have been misrepresented to him.
Overall, Im not persuaded Black Horse need to take any action here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman