DRN-2639599
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an 
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer his pension to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. In brief, 
Mr S said he was cold called by St Pauls Marketing Limited in early 2016 and offered a 
pension review. Mr S was in his early 40s, and had a personal pension with an approximate 
value of £57,000. He didnt have any other savings or investments.
Mr S subsequently opened a SIPP and approximately £57,000 was switched to it in April 
2016. Just over £56,000 was then transferred to a stockbroking account and the majority 
invested in Just Loans debentures. 
Mr S, through his representative, subsequently complained to Alexander David Securities 
Limited. It said this was in February 2019. I understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge 
or respond to the complaint. The representative subsequently referred it to us. Our 
investigator asked Alexander David for its files and to provide any other evidence it wanted 
us to take into account. However, no files or evidence or arguments were received.
The investigator noted that Alexander David hadnt disputed Mr S claim that hed been 
advised he would be better off moving his pension to get a better return.  The investigator 
thought that advising Mr S to move his pension from a managed fund to a single holding in a 
firm operating in a niche market and which had a limited track record was unsuitable. The 
lack of diversification would have increased the degree of investment risk to Mr S pension. 
The investigator didnt think that Mr S was in a position to take the risks associated with 
having all his pension in this one product, which he thought presented higher risks. The 
investigator didnt think the investment strategy was suitable for Mr S circumstances.
The investigator said that St Pauls Marketing had arranged the investment for Mr S and that 
as it was a non-readily realisable security the appropriateness rules in COBS 10 applied. 
These said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readilv realisable
security, speculative illiquid security, derivative or warrant with or for a retail client.. .and
the firm is aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, that the application or order is in
response to a direct offer financial promotion
The investigator said St Pauls Marketing was required to assess Mr S knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered 
or demanded so as to enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is 
appropriate. The investigator said that Mr S had no significant investment knowledge and 
no experience of making investments of this nature. His previous experience was based on 
the investments in his personal pension which hed held since his early twenties. The 
investigator didnt think investing in the Just Loans debentures was appropriate for Mr S. The 
investigator also didnt think that, by bringing about the investment, St Pauls Marketing had 
acted in Mr S best interests. 
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt
provide a response. The investigator e-mailed both parties on 6 March 2021 explaining
that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman to review and make a final
decision. The investigator subsequently e-mailed both parties on 20 July 2021. He said that 
having reviewed the case he thought compensation should be calculated slightly differently 
to what hed proposed in his assessment. He set out how he thought it should be calculated. 
No further material evidence or arguments were presented by either party.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mr S original complaint or to the investigators requests 
for information. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at 
the time of the transfer and investment. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available, including Mr S recollections of 
events. The investigator set out his thoughts on the matter in his assessment, and Alexander 
David hasnt disputed what he said or provided any further evidence or arguments.
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was 
involved from the outset and following its input Mr S transferred his pension to the SIPP and 
invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for someone of Mr S background 
and experience to want to transfer an existing pension in order to invest in this type of 
investment without prompting. I think it was unlikely to have happened without the 
involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in 
the debentures. It was aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated 
it. 
The investigator said he didnt think the investment strategy St Pauls Marketing had 
recommended was suitable for Mr S. The firm hasnt disputed this. In all the circumstances 
and on the balance of the limited evidence thats available, I think its more likely than not 
that St Pauls Marketing did advise Mr S to transfer and invest in the debentures. And given 
the significant risks presented by the investment, I dont think it was suitable for Mr S in his 
circumstances, particularly given he has said that he was a low risk taker, with no investment 
experience, and no other savings and investments.
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mr S, I think the evidence shows it 
was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were a non-readily realisable 
security.  COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mr S knowledge and experience 
in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demand 
so that it could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for him.
Mr S said he had little investment experience and Alexander David hasnt disputed this. Ive 
seen no evidence of Mr S having a history of making this type of investment. The debentures 
presented significant risks and were speculative. In my view they werent appropriate for Mr 
S given his knowledge and experience and this should have been clear to St Pauls 
Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think it was clear that thedebentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mr S. Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing 
hadnt advised Mr S to transfer and invest in the debentures, or if it had told him they werent 
suitable or appropriate for him, he wouldnt have transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mr S to transfer and 
invest in a product that he would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures 
caused the losses that Mr S has claimed.
Putting things right
Fair compensation 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in but for St Pauls Marketings failures. I think Mr S 
would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, 
but Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr S 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Alexander David do? 
To compensate Mr S fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should compare the 
performance of Mr S investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value 
is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Alexander David Securities Limited should also pay any interest as set out below. If there is 
a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mr S pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities Limited shouldnt 
pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S pension 
plan it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mr S actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age. 
I think Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
 investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment - 
13 
January 
2021The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at 13 January 2021 
to decision date. Then 
8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mr S 
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander David should:
  Pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has caused him. 
 Provide details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format. 
 Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Limited 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Actual value 
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date (the date of re-investment). 
Fair value 
This is what the transfer value would have been worth at the end date had it grown in line 
with the benchmark. Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or 
other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Mr S circumstances were consistent with someone who only had limited capacity for risk. 
And in his complaint Mr S said he was a low risk taker. In all the circumstances, I dont think 
Mr S would have transferred but for St Pauls Marketings failures. But his existing pension 
was invested in funds presenting a greater degree of risk than he has said he was prepared to accept. So I think its likely he would have switched to funds better aligned to his risk 
profile if suitable advice had been given. I dont know exactly how he would have invested. 
But I think the index I have outlined above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable 
proxy for the level of risk that Mr S was willing and able to take. 
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
  The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr S risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was only prepared to 
take a limited level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr S into that position.
It doesnt mean that Mr S would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather I consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort 
of return Mr S could have obtained from investments suited to his objectives and risk 
attitude. 
The investigator recommended that fair compensation be calculated as at 13 January 2021; 
the date that Mr S decided to reinvest into the Just Loans Debentures. I think this is fair 
given Mr S had made his decision to reinvest his money of his own accord. I dont think 
Alexander David is responsible for any losses arising from the re-investment. 
And although Mr S may have suffered a degree of distress when the return on the 
debentures was uncertain, this would likely have been for a limited period given he agreed to 
reinvest in the debentures. So I think £100 is fair in the particular circumstances
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint. I order Alexander David Securities Limited 
to calculate and pay compensation to Mr S on the basis I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman