DRN-3607150
Complaint
Miss O is unhappy with the way TSB Bank plc didnt refund payments made from her 
account under a direct debit.
Background
In January 2022, Miss O contacted TSB to tell it that unauthorised payments had been taken 
from her account. These were paid to a merchant under a direct debit. She contacted TSB 
and explained that these payments had been taken without her consent. It refunded the 
payment to her account under the terms of the Direct Debit guarantee. At the same time, it 
wrote to her and said the following:
In line with the Direct Debit guarantee, after weve refunded your payment, well look 
into what has happened.
If our checks show a refund wasnt due, then we might have to take it back from your 
account. Well let you know if this happens.
The merchant responded to TSB and provided evidence that, as far as it was concerned, 
showed that there was a valid direct debit in place, it had a contract with Miss O and that it 
had given her advance notice that a payment was due. TSB was satisfied with this evidence 
and so it removed the refund from her account. It wrote to her to tell that this had been done. 
Miss O doesnt think this is fair. She says that shes the victim of fraud, she never entered 
into a contract with the merchant nor did she agree to a direct debit. TSB therefore shouldnt 
have allowed any payments to leave her account without her consent. 
She complained to TSB, but it didnt uphold her complaint. She was unhappy with its 
response and so she referred her complaint to this service. It was looked at by an 
Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator thought that TSB had fairly handled her 
claim under the Direct Debit guarantee.
Miss O disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear at the outset that Im only considering Miss Os complaint about TSB. Im 
not able to consider any concern or complaint she has about the business to which the 
payment was made. I can see from evidence that shes sent to us that she has raised a 
complaint with it separately and there is a separate route for her to escalate that complaint 
and have her concerns reviewed independently if she wants to do so.
Miss O contacted TSB to dispute a payment made under a direct debit from her account. 
This was handled by TSB as a claim under the Direct Debit Guarantee. The wording of the 
Direct Debit guarantee says (amongst other things) that it protects you in the rare event that 
there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for instance if a payment is taken on the 
incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be used to address contractual 
disputes between you and the billing organisation.
TSBs system notes show that this direct debit was in place as early as 2019 and that 
multiple payments have been authorised under it since. On balance, I think its more likely 
than not that the payments she later disputed were in fact authorised.
When Miss O raised her query, TSB paid a temporary refund to her account. When the 
supplier provided TSB evidence suggesting that the direct debit was legitimately in place and 
that it had given Miss O advance notice of a payment being due. In the circumstances, I 
dont think TSB acted unreasonably by accepting that evidence from the provider and 
reversing the refund that it had applied to her account.
I recognise that Miss O doesnt agree that she consented to this payment and that shes 
informed the police. I cant comment on the dispute she has with the provider, but her 
outstanding concerns ought to be addressed with them directly. My role here is only to look 
at the actions and inactions of TSB. I know how strongly Miss O feels about her complaint 
and that my decision will be disappointing, but I think it has handled things fairly here.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman