DRN-3452877
The complaint
Mr P complained about missing monthly annuity payments that Scottish Widows Limited  
trading as Clerical Medical (SW) should have paid him.
What happened
Mr P said there were missing monthly payments from his annuity. He said he had around 
£54 missing from September 2021 and around £435 from October 2021 and around £100 
from November 2021. He said that a bank account he had used was closed with effect from 
7 September 2021. He didnt trust SW and wanted his annuity transferred to another 
company. 
SW said that it had paid to an account ending 260 around £54 on 10 September 2021, 
around £435 pounds on 10 October 2021 and around a £100 on 10 November 2021. The 
payments had not been returned and it was not possible to pay them again to a different 
bank account. It updated its records for another bank account and confirmed that with effect 
from 10 December 2021 the monthly payments would go to another new account (ending 
173). As Mr P was in receipt of an annuity it wasnt possible to transfer it to another provider. 
It didnt think it had done anything wrong.
The investigator said he didnt think SW had done anything wrong. He had seen trace 
information regarding payments and no return of funds. While he couldnt be totally certain it 
seemed likely the money was with the banks. In the absence of any evidence of an error he 
couldnt direct SW to make the payments again. He couldnt ask SW to release his annuity.
Mr P didnt agree and asked why SW hadnt provided monthly payment statements. He had 
not had confirmation of payment for the missing payments nor was there any evidence on 
his bank statements that they had neem received. Why had they continued to pay into a 
closed bank account. SW had a duty of care to ensure he received the payment he was due.
The investigator asked the business about the monthly payment statements. SW reissued 
the statements to Mr P. 
The investigator didnt change his view..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to make an award or direction against SW I need to find it has done something 
wrong.
During the time from August to December 2021 Mr P used three bank accounts. As this 
decision will be published I cannot use the names of the providers of those accounts. For the 
purposes of this decision I have therefore referred to them by the last three digits of the 
account numbers as follows:- 
Account ending 754 received August payments
Account ending 260 received September, October and November payments.
Account ending 173 received December and January payments.
I have seen internal file notes for SW showing Mr P notifying it of the change in bank 
accounts and also a change of address for Mr P in early September 2021. This is then acted 
upon for the September payments and following months. I can also see a record of him 
making contacting in late October 2021 notifying SW of another new bank account and 
saying he had problems with the bank operating his account ending 260 and couldnt find 
this payments for September and October 2021. That call is followed up in early November 
as there was an error in the number of digits in the account number. It seems based on the 
file notes that each time SW was contacted with details of the changed bank accounts it 
updated its records and made the changes requested.
So I dont think SW knowingly paid money to a closed account and even if it did it was up to 
Mr P to notify SW of any changes in bank accounts in good time for the next monthly 
payment. The files notes seem to show that SW did respond each time in was notified.
I have seen a BACS trace request raised on 15/12/22 for the BACS payments Mr P said 
were missing.
I have seen a BACS checking report confirming the payments made from August to 
November 2021. SW has confirmed the funds were not returned. 
So based on the BACS tracing records it seems that all the payments were made to the 
accounts Mr P requested. I note also that SW has reissued the confirmations of payments 
letters that Mr P requested.
I do not have any supporting papers to show the money was rejected or not paid. 
Based on all of this, I have paper evidence to show the payments were made by BACS and 
confirmation of non-rejection from SW. On balance and based on the evidence, I cannot 
reasonably conclude that SW didnt make the payments as Mr P suggests. I cannot 
therefore make a direction that it should make the payments again.
I appreciate that this is frustrating for Mr P as while I can see the evidence shows the 
payments were made it does not show they were received by Mr P. I dont know if the 
payments have gone missing and if so where. As the investigator says it is possible that the 
payments have been lost between the various bank accounts, but that wouldnt be SWs 
fault. The banks are not party to this complaint and I cannot make any direction regarding 
them. 
For those reasons, I cannot uphold this complaint against SW.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Colette BewleyOmbudsman