DRN-3027217
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Logbook Money Limited (LML or the lender) was 
irresponsible to have agreed credit for him. 
  
What happened
LML provided Mr W with a loan of £750 in October 2019. The total amount of £2,437.50, 
including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 78 weekly instalments of £31.25.
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Mr W provided 
LML with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr W didnt make his loan repayments 
LML could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle. 
I understand Mr W hasnt fully repaid this loan. As of September 2020 he had repaid over 
£1,000 leaving an outstanding balance of over £1,400.  
Mr W said that LML was irresponsible to have agreed credit for him because he had a large 
amount of existing debt at the time and had missed payments and incurred defaults. Mr W 
says that had LML carried out sufficient checks it would have understood this and declined 
to lend to him. Mr W has told us that he was suffering with a gambling addiction at the time 
and was struggling with his mental health. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because they concluded LML had lent irresponsibly. They recommended LML refund the 
payments Mr W made above the original amount of £750 he borrowed along with 
compensatory interest.  They also recommended LML remove any adverse information 
about the loan from Mr Ws credit file. 
LML didnt agree with this recommendation. It said it performed adequate checks and it 
found the loan to be affordable for Mr W. It says Mr W confirmed his income and expenditure 
and hadnt mentioned his gambling during the application process. LML asked for the 
complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LML needed to check that Mr W could afford to meet his repayments without difficulty 
before agreeing credit for him. In other words, it needed to check he could make his 
repayments out of his usual income without having to borrow to meet them, while meeting 
his existing obligations and without the payments having a significant adverse impact on 
his financial situation. The assessment needed to be proportionate to the nature of the 
credit and Mr Ws circumstances, and LML needed to have proper regard to the outcome 
of that assessment in respect of affordability risk.   
With this in mind, my main considerations are did LML complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ws application to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did LML make a fair 
lending decision?
LML provided this Service with the information it relied on in making its lending decision. 
This included Mr Ws application form, in which he said his net monthly income was £3,500 
and his monthly expenditure was £1,700. LML also provided an analysis of Mr Ws bank 
transactions (Ill call this Bank A). This showed Mr Ws income as being over £3,300 in 
August 2019 and over £3,100 in September. It also showed Mr W transferred large amounts 
to other bank accounts each month to the extent that he had returned payments (for his car 
insurance) and returned standing orders. 
LML's customer records note that it asked Mr W about the transfers. He explained that his 
accounts with Bank A were shut in August 2019 and he had been given two months to pay 
off his debt with the bank. Mr W provided a letter from the bank about his account closure as 
evidence, which LML accepted. It concluded that the loan would be affordable for Mr W. 
This explanation from Mr W doesnt seem unreasonable on the face of it. However, I think 
there were inconsistencies in the information LML had which ought to have raised concerns. 
Mr W hadnt declared any debt repayments in his application so it seems inconsistent that he 
needed to make transfers to other Bank A accounts of over £3,000 in August and £5,000 in 
September. Mr W was entering into an expensive credit agreement for £750, yet the 
information LML had seemed to show Mr W had a lot more than this to spare each month. In 
addition to making what appear to be internal account transfers, Mr W also made large 
unexplained transfers to an account with another bank (which Ill call Bank B) for example, in 
September Mr W transferred over £1,500 to Bank B. 
Altogether, I think LML ought to have looked into Mr Ws spending in more depth to fully 
assess the risk to him of not being able to meet his repayments over the loan term. So on 
this occasion I dont think its checks were proportionate and it should have taken further 
steps to verify Mr Ws expenses before agreeing credit for him. 
Mr W has provided a copy of his credit file and his statements for his account with Bank B. 
Im not suggesting that this is the information LML should have reviewed, but its the 
information I have available and I think it gives me a reasonable insight into Mr Ws finances 
at the time.
I can see from Mr Ws credit report that he had over £7,000 of credit across five accounts 
which had defaulted in the prior 15 months, including two credit cards in March 2019. His 
transactions with Bank B for August and September 2019 include gambling spend of more 
than his monthly salary. Mr W was borrowing from short term and high cost lenders, 
sometimes to directly fund his gambling. 
I think its likely that LML would have found out through proportionate checks that Mr W was 
having difficulty managing his existing debts and this, combined with his spending patterns, 
meant further credit was likely to add to his indebtedness and cause him financial difficulty. I 
dont think LML would have lent to him under these circumstances and so I find it was 
irresponsible to have done so. Ive set out below what LML needs to do to put things right for 
Mr W. 
 
Putting things rightI think its fair that Mr W repays the capital he borrowed as hes had the use of this. 
However, I dont think he should be liable for any interest or charges on this amount or have 
his credit record adversely impacted. 
In order to put things right for Mr W, LML needs to:
a) Refund to Mr W all payments he made above the original amount of £750 he 
borrowed;
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they were 
paid to the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Ws credit file; and 
d) Revoke the Bill of Sale for Mr Ws car if this is still in place and return any relevant 
documents to him if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LML to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr W 
a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about Logbook Money 
Limited and it should put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman