DRN-3042784
The complaint
Miss D and Mr V are unhappy with the response of Shawbrook Bank Limited, following a 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background 
Miss D and Mr V were contacted by a company Ill refer to as P that supplied and installed 
solar panel systems. Following a meeting, Miss D and Mr V agreed to enter into a contract 
with P for it to supply and install a solar panel system at their home. To fund this Miss D and 
Mr V also agreed to enter into a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Miss D and Mr V made a claim under section 75 of the CCA through their representative. 
The representative said that P had told Miss D and Mr V that the solar panels would be self-
funded and that the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff 
(FIT) income. But that hadnt happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments had been 
much higher than the income.
In its final response letter, Shawbrook said that it didnt think the benefits of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented. Unhappy with this response, Miss D and Mr V referred the 
complaint to our service.
During the course of our investigation Shawbrook made an offer to resolve the complaint. 
Shawbrook offered to calculate the potential savings and income to Miss D and Mr V over 
the term of the loan. It then said it would restructure the loan so that they didnt pay any 
more than this over the 15 year term of the loan. 
Shawbrook gave Miss D and Mr V four options as to how they would like the loan 
restructured. They were:
a) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early;
b) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they pay 
a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term;
c) The overpayments are returned to Miss D and Mr V, but Shawbrook uses an 
appropriate amount of the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance 
doesnt increase, with the remainder being paid direct to Miss D and Mr V, who continue 
to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early; or
d) The overpayments are returned to Miss D and Mr V, but Shawbrook uses an 
appropriate amount of the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance 
doesnt increase, with the remainder being paid direct to Miss D and Mr V, who pay a 
new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term.
Shawbrook explained that, because of how the loan was structured, if all the overpayments 
were returned (options (c) and (d) above), the overall loan balance would increase. 
Therefore, it proposed that an amount of the overpayment would be used to ensure the 
outstanding balance, and therefore the amount that Miss D and Mr V would have to pay, 
wouldnt increase.
Our investigator felt that the offer was fair. Miss D and Mr V, through their representative, 
said they didnt. The representative said that Miss D and Mr V should have the option of 
accepting greater redress, even if that increased the loan balance from its then current level.  
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Shawbrook nor Miss D and Mr V dispute that the benefits of the solar panel system 
were misrepresented. As a result, this decision will deal with what I consider to be fair 
compensation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
Ive considered whether the Miss D and Mr V should be able to rescind the contract with P 
and be refunded all payments they have made to Shawbrook, minus any financial benefits 
they may have received from the solar panel system. However, here, I dont think it would be 
fair or proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from their home. Rather, I 
think the fair outcome here is to put Miss D and Mr V in a position where the panels are self-
funding over the original term of the loan. By keeping the panels, I believe Miss D and Mr V 
are likely to benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments after the term of the loan 
has finished.
Miss D and Mr Vs representative says that they were told that the loan repayments would 
be covered by the FIT. So, Ive considered whether any electricity savings should be taken 
into account when arriving at fair compensation.
I believe that Miss D and Mr V were misled into thinking that the solar panels would be self-
funding and so on that basis I need to decide fair compensation. When thinking about that 
question, I think its fair to take account of the electricity generated by the solar panel units. 
On the one hand Miss D and Mr V have to pay their loan and for any electricity used in 
addition to that generated by the panels; on the other hand they can off-set those payments 
by the FIT payments and the savings associated with the electricity generated by the panels. 
It would be unfair to ignore the electricity generated and used by Miss D and Mr V when 
calculating fair compensation.
I have carefully considered the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar system. This methodology has been shared with Miss 
D and Mr Vs representative.
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future performance of 
Miss D and Mr Vs solar panel system. 
Shawbrook has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Miss D 
and Mr Vs solar panels it will use a number of assumptions. These include the proportion of 
energy generated by Miss D and Mr V s solar panels that they are expected to use rather 
than buying electricity from their energy provider, electricity price inflation, the degradation 
rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Based on the available evidence, Im of the view that these appear reasonable. As an 
example, the actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem to be far from the 
assumed figure. In summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions that have been used by 
Shawbrook provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
By making the panels self-funding, Miss D and Mr Vs monthly repayments will reduce, 
meaning that they would have previously been paying more each month, resulting in an 
overpayment. And as Miss D and Mr V would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Neither party disagrees with the principle of the proposed redress to put things right. I have 
therefore considered whether Miss D and Mr V should have the option of receiving the full 
refund of their overpayments and for their loan balance to increase. 
Shawbrook has explained that when it has restructured the loan to ensure that the total 
amount payable over the term matches the expected benefits, if it were to refund all 
overpayments made, this would cause the outstanding loan balance to be higher than it 
currently is.
My understanding is that this is because, under the original loan terms, the monthly 
payments were predominantly paying off the interest that was being accrued as opposed to 
reducing the outstanding capital for the earlier period of the loan. This means when 
Shawbrook has restructured the loan, if it were to return all the overpayments made, the 
outstanding loan balance would increase.
Shawbrook has said it doesnt think it is appropriate to do this as it would, in effect, increase 
the debt owing. The representative has said that the decision on whether the debt should 
increase or not should be down to their clients choice as opposed to what Shawbrook has 
said.
Ive carefully considered the views put forward by all parties. Having done so, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Miss D and Mr Vs outstanding loan balance to be 
increased beyond what it currently is.
I say this, for broadly the reasons that have already been given by Shawbrook. If all the 
overpayments were returned, this would increase the overall amount owed and therefore 
increase the level of debt owed to it. And I dont think consider that to be fair and reasonable.
So, whilst Im satisfied that the four options discussed above are fair, Shawbrook should 
ensure that if Miss D and Mr V choose option (c) or (d), the appropriate portion of the 
overpayments is used to ensure the loan balance does not increase beyond what it currently 
is.
Im satisfied that Shawbrooks offer to let Miss D and Mr V have the following selection of 
options as to how they would like their overpayments to be used is fair:
(a) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early;
(b) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they pay 
a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term;
(c) The overpayments are returned to Miss D and Mr V, but Shawbrook uses an 
appropriate amount of the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance 
doesnt increase, with the remainder being paid direct to Miss D and Mr V, who continue 
to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early; or
(d) The overpayments are returned to Miss D and Mr V, but Shawbrook uses an 
appropriate amount of the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance doesnt increase, with the remainder being paid direct to Miss D and Mr V, who pay a 
new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term.
I am satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Miss D and Mr V 
first contacted Shawbrook that means that their claim should have been upheld. The fact 
that this did not happen undoubtedly caused them trouble and upset and consequently Ill 
make an award of £200 to cover this.
My final decision
 My final decision is that Miss D and Mr Vs complaint should be upheld. In full and final 
settlement of it, Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
(a) allow Miss D and Mr V to keep the solar panels;
(b) estimate the potential savings and incomes to Miss D and Mr V from the panels over the 
15 year term of the loan and rework it so they pay no more than this, where possible 
using Miss D and Mr Vs electricity bills and FIT statements to do this;
(c) add 8% simple interest to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment was 
made to date of settlement;
(d) allow Miss D and Mr V to decide how theyd like their overpayments to be used, using 
the four options described above; and
(e) pay Miss D and Mr V £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss D and Mr V how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss D and Mr V a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr V 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman