DRN-3741240
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr B complain that Metro Bank PLC blocked and closed their accounts. And that 
it took too long to release funds held in the accounts back to them. They say this made 
things very difficult for them and want Metro to pay compensation. 
What happened
Mrs N and her husband Mr B had two accounts with Metro - a current account in Mrs Ns 
name and a joint account. 
In October 2019, Metro reviewed Mrs Ns and Mr Bs accounts  Whilst it completed its review 
Metro blocked the accounts  which meant Mrs N and Mr B couldnt access the funds in their 
accounts.  In August 2020, Metro asked Mrs N to provide information about a number of 
payments that had been made into the accounts. Mrs N provided Metro with information in 
September 2020. The accounts were blocked from October 2019 until October 2020.
Mr B telephoned Metro to try and find out what was happening with the accounts and the 
reasons behind the banks actions. Metro didnt provide Mr B with much information and said 
it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the terms of the account and 
relevant regulations. 
Following its review, Metro decided to close Mrs Ns and Mr Bs accounts. The bank wrote to 
Mrs N and Mr B in October 2020 and gave them 60 days notice to make alternative banking 
arrangements. Following this Mrs N and Mr B transferred their funds to an account held with 
another bank. 
Mrs N and Mr B werent happy with the banks response and brought their complaint to this 
service. Mrs N explained that the restrictions on her accounts had made it very difficult to 
manage as she used the accounts for day to day living expenses and says it destroyed the 
family business. Mrs N said that the whole experience had been upsetting and stressful. She 
also explained that at the time she was dealing with a serious health condition, which was 
made more challenging due to the banks actions. So, she said Metro should pay her and 
Mr B compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the bank blocking their accounts 
and holding onto their money for so long. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought Metro hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Mrs Ns and Mr Bs accounts. She said theyd acted in line 
with their legal and regulatory obligations. And had treated them fairly when it decided to 
close their accounts. However, she said Metro took too long to complete its review and 
couldve done things much quicker. So, she said Metro should pay Mrs N and Mr B £350 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience the time it had taken to complete its review 
had caused them. 
Metro accepted what the investigator said. Mrs N disagreed. She said that the compensation 
didnt adequately reflect the amount of upset shed been caused. She explained that she 
was battling a serious health condition and the block impacted her business. So, she said 
Metro should pay £2,500 compensation for the upset and losses caused by the accounts 
being blocked for nearly a year.
The investigator asked Mrs N to provide evidence of her losses, impact, and financial 
circumstances. Mrs N didnt provide anything and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter. So, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mrs N has told us and the bank that she feels very strongly about her 
and Mr Bs complaint. And Im very sorry to hear that Mrs N has been unwell.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Metro has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil 
these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information, for example about payments, and information about the 
individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The 
terms of Mrs Ns and Mr Bs accounts also permit Metro to review an account and ask its 
customers for information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Metro to block Mrs Ns and Mr Bs accounts. Metro has explained that this was its 
standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Metro were 
complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions 
caused Mrs N and Mr B inconvenience and upset when it decided to block their accounts 
and asked them to provide information, I cant say the bank did anything wrong and treated 
them unfairly in doing so. 
I understand that Mrs N and Mr B want Metro to explain the reason it applied the block to 
their accounts in the first place. And I can see that Mrs N asked Metro to explain itself on 
several occasions. But Metro doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mrs N the reasons behind the account review 
and block, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not 
giving Mrs N this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
However, while Metro are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Metro initially blocked Mrs Ns and Mr Bs accounts 
in October 2019. I can see that Metro first asked Mrs N to provide it with information in 
November 2019, which Mrs N did. However, following this, Mrs Ns  and Mr Bs accounts 
remained blocked for a further 11 months. And Metro didnt ask Mrs N to provide further 
information about activity on her accounts until August 2020.  This was information that it 
should have requested when it first blocked the accounts in October 2019. So, Im satisfied 
Metro has caused unnecessary delays in releasing Mrs Ns and Mr Bs funds.
Metro hasnt offered any explanation for why its review of Mrs Ns and Mr Bs accounts took 
so long to complete. It has accepted it should have unblocked Mrs Ns and Mr Bs accounts 
sooner than it did and couldve asked Mrs N for the extra information when it first spoke 
contacted her in late 2019 instead of asking her for the information months later in August 
2020. Metro has agreed with the investigators view to pay Mrs N and Mr B £350 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the delay. In response to the investigators view Mrs N said that the compensation amount doesnt 
adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset she and Mr B suffered. Mrs N wants 
£2,500.
Ive considered what Mrs N has said about how Metros actions impacted her and Mr B and 
Ive noted that despite being asked to provide evidence to support the impact they say 
Metros actions had on them they havent done so. Ive no doubt this was a worrying and 
upsetting time for Mrs N but for me to award more compensation Id have to be satisfied that 
the delays caused an unreasonable level of inconvenience and financial loss. And despite 
being asked to do so Mrs N and Mr B havent provided evidence to support any financial 
losses that theyve mentioned. So, it wouldnt be fair of me to tell Metro to pay financial loss 
or compensation for something theres no evidence of.  
Turning to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular mistakes or poor service. Its my role to consider what impact Metros 
actions have had on Mrs N and Mr B and decide, within guidelines set by our service, 
whether compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think its fair to say the delays caused by Metro when it 
reviewed Mrs Ns and Mr Bs accounts caused them worry and upset. And I agree some 
compensation is appropriate for this. I say this because Mrs N and Mr B had to spend time 
contacting Metro and they had to wait nearly 12 months for Metro to release their funds. So, 
I can appreciate this wouldve been  inconvenient and upsetting for them. And its only right 
that Metro recognises this. However, Im satisfied that £350 is a fair amount of compensation 
and proportionate to the trouble and upset Mrs N and Mr B were caused. So, while Mrs N 
and Mr B may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation recommended by the 
investigator recognises the impact Metros actions had in the overall circumstances of this 
complaint. So, I wont be directing Metro to pay any more.    
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mrs Ns and Mr Bs accounts. Its generally for 
banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking 
facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service 
wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer 
who has had their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a 
legitimate manner, this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the banks 
decision to stop providing Mrs N and Mr B with banking facilities was reached legitimately 
and fairly.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Metro gave Mrs N and Mr B 60 days notice of its intention to close their accounts. The bank 
wrote to Mrs N and Mr B in October 020, telling them that their accounts would close. So, it 
was entitled to close the accounts as it has already done. 
In summary, its clearly caused Mrs N and Mr B trouble and upset when they werent able to 
use their accounts for a number of months. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying 
and frustrating time for them. So, I realise they will be disappointed by my decision. But 
having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I havent found 
grounds to increase the level of compensation. And Im satisfied that £350 compensation is 
fair and reasonable. So, I wont be telling Metro to do anything else to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is to instruct Metro Bank PLC to pay Mrs N 
and Mr B £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken for Metro to 
complete its review of their accounts and release their funds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman