DRN-3191456
The complaint and background
Ms M feels that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly applied charges and interest to her account. She 
says the charges were too high and have contributed to her financial difficulties.
Ms M complained to HSBC, but it did not uphold the complaint, so she referred her concerns 
to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ms concerns, he explained that he didnt think HSBC 
had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Ms Ms account. Ms M disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Ms Ms complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged Ms M over the years were fair and reasonable. Ultimately 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for 
me to get involved with, regardless of any changes HSBC has made to its charging structure 
in recent years following the Financial Conduct Authoritys review and recommendations.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Ms M if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges to 
her account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that she was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Ms M 
fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that HSBC did treat Ms M unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at her 
account statements, I cant see that there were any obvious signs of financial difficulties that 
should have flagged to HSBC that Ms M might need some help. 
I want to be clear here that Im not saying Ms M wasnt in financial difficulties, but while I 
accept that Ms M was using her overdraft regularly, the amount being credited to the 
account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either. Indeed, the overdraft was regularly repaid by credits to 
the account. So I dont think this was enough to flag to HSBC that it ought to review her 
account in more detail, or that should have alerted HSBC to any potential financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms M, but Im satisfied that HSBC hasnt 
treated her unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman