DRN-3627765
The complaint
Mr S complained because Al Rayan Bank PLC refused to refund him for cash withdrawals 
which he said he didnt make.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr S filled in an online complaint form with Al Rayan. He said that a few 
months earlier, hed noticed that there was a lot of money missing from his account. Hed 
gone to his branch, asking for a statement back to 2009. Mr S said he checked the 
statement, then went back to the branch asking them to investigate multiple withdrawals, 
going back over many years, which he said he didnt make. The branch manager told him it 
could only investigate disputed transactions going back 13 months. Mr S said he didnt use 
online banking, and all the withdrawals he disputed took place at the branch.
Al Rayan sent a final response letter to Mr Ss complaint. This explained that the reason the 
branch manager had said Al Rayan could only look at the last 13 months was because this 
was based on guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about unauthorised 
transactions. But Al Rayan said it had looked at all 15 withdrawals which Mr S was disputing. 
These were from 23 May 2012 to September 2020. 
Al Rayan said that Mr S would have been verified by the cashier on each of these 
withdrawals. It pointed out that it held Mr Ss photograph, signature and ID on file. Each cash 
withdrawal also had a signed withdrawal slip  and Al Rayan sent Mr S a copy of this for 
each of the 15 disputed transactions. It pointed out that these matched the signature it had 
on file for Mr S. Al Rayan also said that it had sent monthly bank statements to Mr Ss 
registered address, showing all incoming and outgoing payments.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. 
Our investigator set out what this service can and cant consider. He explained that the 
reason Al Rayans branch had said it might only be able to look at withdrawals in the last 13 
months was the Payment Services Regulations. Al Rayan could have applied these, but it 
chose to look at all the withdrawals Mr S disputed.
But the investigator also explained that this service has to follow rules set down for our 
service. These say that we cant investigate an issue which happened more than six years 
before the complaint was made, or three years from when the customer ought to have been 
aware of an issue. So the investigator said he could only look at the last eight withdrawals 
about which Mr S complained: from 16 December 2015 to 30 September 2020. These 
totalled £12,700.
The investigator looked at these withdrawals and didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said 
that on each of these occasions, Al Rayan had identified Mr S as the person withdrawing the 
money. Theyd done this by checking an up-to-date driving licence and a photo of Mr S 
which they held on their records. He also noted that although the account wasnt used 
frequently, there was a history of Mr S making cash withdrawals, which he hadnt disputed. 
Some of these were for as much as £15,000, though the highest of the disputed ones was 
for £5,000. So the investigator didnt think there was any reason for Al Rayan to have been 
suspicious about the withdrawals. He considered the withdrawals had been authorised by Mr 
S, and Al Rayan wasnt liable.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed only used the account for saving, and hadnt even set up 
online banking. He noted that the investigator had said Mr S hadnt checked his bank 
statements, but said he almost never checked his bank statements with other banks either, 
and if he checked them, that wouldnt stop anyone taking his money. He said hed known 
people whose bank accounts had been hit by their personal bankers.
The investigator replied that the reason hed mentioned Mr S not checking his bank 
statements was only in relation to which of the withdrawals this service could consider. He 
said that hed come to his outcome on the balance of probabilities, based on the evidence 
provided by both sides. The evidence indicated that the withdrawals hadnt been made by 
someone else, because of the ID checks and matching signatures on the withdrawal slips. 
The investigator also said Mr Ss money had been in a savings account, not given to a 
personal banker, and in any case he considered each case on its own merits, not on other 
peoples circumstances.
Mr S said he still wasnt satisfied. He said the investigator kept raising the point that he 
hadnt checked his bank statements  but he said there was no law or obligation that he had 
to, and he still didnt.  He said that he strongly believed someone from Al Rayan bank had 
taken his money, and he held Al Rayan fully responsible. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I can and cant consider
There are rules setting out what this service can and cant consider. These are set out in 
section 2.8.2 of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook about dispute resolution. 
This says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:

more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service on 2 October 2021. So I can only consider events 
which happened up to six years before that, ie from October 2015 onwards. The first of Mr 
Ss disputed transactions after that date is the one on 16 December 2015 for £2,000. I can 
consider that, and the disputed transactions after that date, but not any which happened 
before October 2015.
The disputed transactions
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 cover payments up to 12 January 2018, and the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 cover payments from 13 January 2018 onwards. So some of Mr Ss disputed transactions fall under each of these Regulations. The regulations are, however, 
similar in relation to what Mr S is disputing.
The Regulations mean that I first have to determine whether the payments were 
authenticated. Authentication is a procedure which allows a payment service provider (here, 
Al Rayan) to verify the identity of a payment service user (here, Mr S) or the validity of the 
use of a specific payment instrument. Here, I can see that the disputed transactions were 
authenticated, through Mr Ss signature on the withdrawal slips. Ive seen these, and have 
checked that they all match the sample which Al Rayan had on its records. So the disputed 
transactions were authenticated.
The Regulations go on to say that the transactions must have been authorised  in other 
words, Mr S must have consented to them. Mr S says he didnt; and Al Rayan says he did. 
When evidence conflicts, I take my decision on what I think it most likely to have happened, 
taking into account the available evidence. So Ive considered whether or not its more likely 
than not that it was Mr S who authorised the disputed transactions from 16 December 2015 
onwards.
Who authorised the disputed transactions from 16 December 2015 onwards?
Mr S says he believes that it was a cashier at the Al Rayan branch who stole his money over 
this long time period. I think this is unlikely, for several reasons:
- The signatures on every one of the withdrawal forms match the signature which Al 
Rayan has on file. Mr Ss signature is also a complex one, and wouldnt be easy to 
forge. These signatures are also all identical to the signature on a September 2021 
undisputed withdrawal, and on his driving licence. So I think its very unlikely that any 
dishonest cashier at the branch would have been able to forge Mr Ss signature 
every time over many years.
- Most of the withdrawal slips show the cashiers name. And its not the same cashier 
for all the disputed withdrawals. There are many different cashiers over the years 
which Mr S is disputing. I consider its very unlikely that every cashier at the branch 
was dishonest and stole Mr Ss money in the way he claims.
- Its normal for any fraudster to take as much money as they can, in as short a space 
of time as possible. That isnt what happened here, as there were still funds available 
in Mr Ss account after every one of the disputed transactions. Its very unlikely that 
this is what any fraudster would do. 
So I dont agree with Mr S that staff at the branch stole his money over many years.
Having discounted Al Rayans staff stealing from Mr Ss account, Ive considered whether its 
likely that any other third party fraudulently made the withdrawals.
Ultimately, the evidence shows that Al Rayan obtained copies of Mr Ss signature for every 
withdrawal. That matches the sample it held on its records. Its staff also checked the person 
making the withdrawals for identity  using his driving licence and his photo. This is robust 
evidence provided by Al Rayan, and I consider it makes it very unlikely that any 
unauthorised third party carried out the withdrawals. Any such person would have had to be 
able to forge Mr Ss signature, look like him, and be able to produce his driving licence. 
Theyd also have to be able to return the driving licence to him without his knowledge, then 
take it again, repeatedly.Ive also borne in mind that Mr S did use his account for other, undisputed transactions. 
Some of these were withdrawals as well as credits. Mr S has very strongly argued that he 
never checked any statements, and doesnt think he should have to. But whether or not he 
checked his statements, I consider its unlikely that he wouldnt have noticed the loss of 
several thousand pounds, when he was carrying out the other, undisputed transactions.
Taking all these factors into account, I find that its most likely that Mr S carried out the 
disputed withdrawals himself.  So I dont require Al Rayan to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman