DRN-3952024
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs A are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc offered a reduced settlement 
amount for a claim they made on their home insurance policy.
As Mr S has primarily dealt with things, for simplicity Ill refer to him only.
Reference to AXA includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
In 2020, Mr S took out home insurance underwritten by AXA. It renewed in 2021.
Mr S got in touch with AXA after an outbuilding suffered damage during bad weather. 
He provided a quote for around £8,000 to put the damage right. 
 
AXA accepted the damage was covered by the policy and agreed to settle the claim. 
But it said Mr C had underinsured the outbuildings. It thought they should have been 
insured for around £45,000 but were only insured for £7,500, or about 17%.
AXA said the most it would pay would be 17% of the claim value. It also said Mr S 
would have to show the roof had been maintained over the last ten years.
Mr S said hed had the roof inspected every 5-7 years. AXA seemed to accept this 
but maintained the claim value would be reduced. Mr S complained about this but 
AXAs position didnt change.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Shed asked AXA to show 
why it thought Mr S hadnt given a reasonable figure for the outbuildings  and, if the 
figure he gave was unreasonable, what impact that had had on AXA. But it hadnt 
provided any of this information. So in these circumstances, she didnt think it would 
be fair for AXA to reduce the claim. She asked it to settle the claim in full and pay 
£150 compensation.
Mr S accepted what our investigator said. AXA didnt. It said it hadnt looked at 
whether Mr S had provided a reasonable figure  or the impact it may have had  it 
was only relying on an underinsurance policy term to reduce the claim settlement. It 
noted the term was referenced in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
provided to Mr S.
AXA later provided some information to suggest it may have charged a higher 
premium had Mr S provided a higher figure for the outbuildings. Our investigator still 
wasnt persuaded it would be fair to reduce the claim settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA relied on a policy term to reduce the amount it offered to settle the claim. In summary 
this term says that if the amount Mr S is insured for is less than the rebuild cost, the claim 
will be settled at the percentage Mr S is insured for. AXA says thats around 17% for 
outbuildings.
Im satisfied the term is in the policy and is clearly worded. And I can see it was mentioned in 
the IPID. However, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on it in 
this case. Ill explain why.
Whilst I recognise AXA is seeking to rely on the policy term only, its doing so because it 
doesnt think Mr S gave the right information at the renewal prior to the claim, in 2021. So I 
think its relevant to consider what happened then  and what impact, if any, there was on 
the renewal if Mr S didnt give the information he should have done.
According to the policy term, AXA wanted to know how much it would cost to completely 
rebuild all Mr S outbuildings. Within the policy, this word is defined so its full meaning is 
explained. It says it includes, amongst other things, detached garages, sheds, fences, 
driveways and patios. AXA is entitled to set the definition as it sees fit and to ask for the full 
rebuild cost in order to decide how much to charge for providing insurance cover.
As far as AXA is concerned, it wanted to know the full rebuild cost for the outbuildings and 
didnt receive a reasonable answer. If I were to agree Mr S answer was unreasonable, I 
would go on to consider what impact that had on AXA. So, if Mr S had said the rebuild cost 
was around greater than £7,500 as AXA thinks he should have done, what difference  if 
any  would that have made to AXA?
Its unclear how AXA has arrived at a figure of £45,000 and whether this is fair. Theres no 
evidence to suggest it visited Mr S property, so Im unsure how it would be able to 
accurately estimate the rebuild cost of the outbuildings.
But even if I accepted £45,000 is a reasonable figure  and Mr S should have insured his 
outbuildings for this amount  its not clear it would have made any difference to AXA. Our 
investigator asked for this information several times. After she reached a view on what a fair 
outcome would be, AXA eventually provided some information to suggest the premium may 
have been higher for a higher sum insured. But its not clear and persuasive and seems to 
be based on the assumption that £45,000 is a reasonable figure.
Given the uncertainty about what a reasonable figure is and the impact that would have on 
the premium, Im not satisfied AXA has shown it would be fair to reduce the claim settlement. 
Im not persuaded its shown Mr S gave an unreasonable figure  or, if he did, what a 
reasonable figure would have been and what the corresponding impact on the premium 
would have been. In these circumstances, I dont think it would amount to a fair and 
reasonable outcome for Mr S claim to be reduced by relying on the policy term.
To put things right, AXA should settle Mr S claim without relying on the policy term to reduce 
the settlement value.
Its now many months since Mr S provided AXA with his quote and the claim hasnt moved 
any further forward. This has been caused by AXA unfairly relying on the policy term. In the circumstances, Im satisfied it should pay compensation for the avoidable distress caused by 
the delay. I think £150 as suggested by our investigator is reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Settle the claim without reliance on the underinsurance policy term and subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman