DRN-2189161
The complaint
Ms E complains that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans provided her with a 
loan which she says was unaffordable.
What happened
Buddy Loans provided Ms E with a loan as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Typical 
monthly 
repaymentAPR
1 September 2019 £7,000 42
months£316.99 49.9%
Ms E said that if Buddy Loans had checked properly before providing the loan it wouldve 
realised the loan was unaffordable for her.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld and he set out 
the steps he said Buddy Loans should take to put things right. 
Buddy Loans disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that during the application 
process its checks included full credit searches, a bank check, income verification and an 
affordability check using statistical data as well as information gathered from the borrower. 
Buddy Loans said Ms Es loan followed this process and would not have been granted if its 
requirements hadnt been met. So it didnt agree that the loan was affordable and asked for 
an ombudsman to review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. Having done so, Ive come to the same view as our 
investigator and Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Ms Es complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Es case, I have considered 
the following questions:
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Ms Es loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If it did, did Buddy Loans then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Buddy Loans asked Ms E about her income and expenditure. 
Buddy Loans checked Ms Es payslips to verify her income and was satisfied that it could 
rely on her receiving an income of around £1,584. 
After doing its own checks, it allowed for her spending an amount of £624.99 on other 
creditor repayments. And after asking Ms E about her monthly outgoings and taking into 
account statistical information about how much someone in Ms Es position typically spent 
each month on basic essentials and also adding a buffer of £50 to cover any unforeseen 
spending or reduction in income, Buddy Loans worked out that Ms E would have disposable 
income of approximately £188.
I've taken into account what Buddy Loans has said about how it calculated Ms Es 
disposable income before it agreed to lend to her. And, like the investigator, I dont think 
Buddy Loans made a fair lending decision when it lent to Ms E based on the information 
it had gathered.I say this because when I look through the credit search Buddy Loans carried out for 
this loan, I can see that it shows Ms E was already having serious problems managing 
her finances. Buddy Loans saw that Ms E had four recent defaults (all within the 
previous 36 months). Two of those defaults were on credit card accounts and two 
were on mail order accounts. The combined balances on those defaulted accounts 
came to more than £4,200.
In addition, its credit checks showed she had three county court judgements all within 
the last year or so the oldest one dated back to August 2018 and the judgements in 
total amounted to more than £8,300.
I dont think Buddy Loans thought carefully enough about what this credit history 
showed about Ms Es overall financial situation. 
I think it would have been clear from these search results that Ms E wasnt managing 
to repay her debt  this had resulted in quite recent defaulted accounts, showing that 
she was having serious problems managing her finances whilst at the same time she 
appeared to be relying on new credit more recently obtained. Buddy Loans was aware 
from its checks that she had 19 active credit accounts already when she applied for 
this loan  four of those had been opened within the last 6 months. I think this was 
probably enough information for Buddy Loans to have realised that Ms Es loan 
application reflected her reliance on this sort of expensive credit and it was unlikely that 
Ms E could repay further credit sustainably without experiencing more adverse 
consequences. And I dont think, based on what Buddy Loans had in front of it, I can 
fairly say that Buddy Loans saw enough to reasonably be satisfied that Ms E was going 
to be able to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
Even if Buddy Loans disagrees on this point, like our investigator, I also think that, at 
the very least, Buddy Loans shouldve done more in-depth checks before making its 
lending decision. I dont think its checks were proportionate because, to my mind, the 
amount borrowed, the total repayment and the length of the loan term leads me to 
think, on balance, that Buddy Loans should have carried out a complete review of Ms 
Es finances and done more to verify what she had told it  especially bearing in mind 
that Buddy Loans knew from the checks it did carry out that Ms E had significantly 
under-stated what she was spending on other credit each month.
I've looked at bank statements provided by Ms E which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding Ms Es overall financial situation at the time. I think if Buddy Loans had done 
a proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that this loan 
was going to be sustainably affordable for Ms E. I think it wouldve most likely realised that 
all the indications apparent from looking at its credit checks were borne out by what I've 
seen on Ms Es bank statements from around this time  and the loan wasnt sustainably 
affordable for Ms E when she was already relying substantially on obtaining finance from 
other high cost lenders to help her manage her day to day spending and depending on her 
overdraft at the bank to get through the month  whilst also incurring significant bank 
charges and fees alongside returned direct debits (due to insufficient funds). 
So I dont think Buddy Loans shouldve provided this loan. 
As Ms E has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result 
of what Buddy Loans did wrong. So, I think Buddy Loans needs to put things right.
Putting things rightI havent seen anything which makes me think Buddy Loans acted unfairly towards Ms E in 
any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. But she has paid interest and 
possibly charges on a loan that should not have been provided to her. In line with this 
Services approach, Ms E shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she borrowed. With 
this in mind, Buddy Loans should: 
 add up the total amount of money Ms E received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Ms E made should be deducted from this amount
 
if this results in Ms E having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Buddy Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms E bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Ms Es credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Ms E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Es complaint and require Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman