DRN-3633117
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy about the way in which Shawbrook Bank Limited handled her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer credit Act 1974.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs M entered into a contract for the supply and installation of new windows 
and doors. The purchase price was finance d by a loan from Shawbrook Bank.
There were issues with the installation which werent resolved by the supplier. Ultimately, 
Mrs M raised a claim with Shawbrook under section 75.
Shawbrook said that the supplier was prepared to resolve most of the issues. There was a 
problem with the dog flap which, although it appeared in the confirmation of survey details, 
couldnt be supplied. Shawbrook upheld the section 75 claim. But Mrs M still had concerns 
and brought her complaint to this service. Shes since completed some of the work herself 
and feels that the suppliers failure to supply the dog flap is a breach of contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in which I said that because the dog flap 
was included in the contract documentation, and because this wasnt something the supplier 
could supply, there had been a misrepresentation. I said that Shawbrook should arrange for 
the supplier to fit a dog flap of Mrs Ms choice.
I also said that I didnt think it was unreasonable that Mrs M had carried out some of the 
works herself because of the delays she experienced. I said that Shawbrook should 
reimburse Mrs M for the costs she had evidenced in the sum of £585.
In relation to the remaining remedial works, I said that the suppliers offer to complete these 
was reasonable and that Mrs M should allow the supplier to complete the works.
I explained that I wasnt asking Shawbrook to pay compensation because I hadnt seen any 
evidence that Shawbrook had cause delay in the handling of the section 75 claim.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments of arguments they wished to raise.
Shawbrook said it had nothing further to add. Mrs M said she wanted confirmation of what 
remedial works would be carried out. She agreed that the suppliers were the correct people 
to complete the work. In relation to the dog flap, Mrs M said she thought she should be 
reimbursed for the dog flap because she had paid for this in the contract.
Mrs M asked me to reconsider awarding compensation and said she had been caused 
significant stress san anxiety.
Putting things right
Ive taken on board what Mrs M has said. In relation to the outstanding remedial works, my 
understanding is that these have been identified following a visit to the site in April 2021 and 
confirmed in a letter from the supplier to Mrs M dated 27 April 2021. But for the avoidance of 
any doubt, I think Shawbrook should supply Mrs M with a schedule of remedial works which 
will be completed by the supplier.
In relation to the dog flap, I agree with Mrs M that this was part of the original contract. I 
accept that the supplier cant supply the dog flap, which is why Ive said there has been a 
misrepresentation. I think the fairest way to resolve this part of the complaint is for Mrs M to 
choose a dog flap and purchase it, and for Shawbrook to reimburse the cost of this.
I understand that this mustve been a stressful experience for Mrs M. But as Ive explained, I 
can only ask Shawbrook to pay compensation if I think it caused delay in the handling of the 
section 75 claim. This is a separate issue to delays in the installation and remedial works. I 
havent seen any evidence that Shawbrook caused delay in its handling of the section 75 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited must:
Arrange for the remedial work to be completed in accordance with the contract (to include 
fitting a dog flap supplied by Mrs M)
Reimburse Mrs M the cost of the dog flap upon production of a receipt
Refund Mrs M the cost of the work shes completed herself in the sum of £585
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman