DRN-2619298
The complaint
Mr J complains that Investment Funds Direct Limited (IFDL) allowed a rebalancing action 
to take place on pension investments he held with the firm. As a result he says he lost the 
protection of those savings being held in cash shortly before he intended to withdraw the 
funds.
What happened
There are a number of parties involved in the issue that has led to Mr Js complaint. Mr J 
held pension savings and was assisted in their management by a financial advisor. In turn 
his pension savings were invested by a discretionary fund manager (DFM). And Mr Js 
pension investments were then held on a platform provided by IFDL.
In February 2020 Mr J was approaching his 55th birthday and had decided to withdraw his 
pension savings. He says he was concerned about potential volatility in the value of his 
pension investments in the run up to his retirement. So he agreed with his financial advisor 
that he should sell his pension investments and hold his savings in cash until the date of his 
retirement. 
Mr Js financial advisor phoned IFDL to seek assistance on the process of disinvesting the 
pension savings. She was provided with that support and Mr Js pension savings were 
transferred to cash on 11 February 2020. However, around three weeks later on 2 March, 
IFDL received an instruction from Mr Js DFM to rebalance his portfolio. That resulted in his 
pension savings being reinvested to the model DFM portfolio hed previously specified.
The following weeks saw significant falls in the markets due to the onset of the coronavirus 
pandemic. Mr Js financial advisor noticed the reinvestment on 27 March and instructed IFDL 
to return his pension savings to cash. But by then the value of Mr Js pension savings had 
fallen by more than £50,000.
Mr J complained that IFDL should have made his advisor aware that it was possible his 
pension investments would be rebalanced and taken steps to prevent that happening. His 
advisor has provided us with a presentation showing that IFDL introduced that functionality 
to its platform around a month later. It thinks the timing of that change is not a coincidence.
Mr Js complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that IFDL 
had done anything wrong by allowing the rebalancing activity to take place. And she didnt 
think IFDL had been wrong in not bringing that possibility to the attention of Mr Js financial 
advisor on the original call. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr J asked that the complaint be decided by an ombudsman. This is the last stage of our 
process.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr J and by IFDL. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As I said earlier, there are a number of parties who have been involved in this issue. But in 
this decision I will only be considering the actions of IFDL, and whether it was responsible for 
any reduction in the value of Mr Js pension savings.
I think it would first be helpful for me to touch on the matters raised by Mr Js financial 
advisor regarding the changes that were made to IFDLs systems around a month after the 
problems arose. IFDL has told us that the timing of those changes is co-incidental. And, on 
balance, Id tend to agree with that assessment. Changes such as these typically take many 
months of planning, design, development, and testing before being implemented. I think it 
unlikely they were made as a reaction to Mr Js complaint.
But I do think those changes might indicate that similar problems to those faced by Mr J had 
arisen in the past. But I dont think that means that I should automatically assume that the 
problems are the responsibility of IFDL. Often changes are made to improve the use of a 
system and help others to avoid problems that are their responsibility. So whilst IFDLs 
system changes might have helped this problem to not occur, that doesnt necessarily mean 
that its systems were in some way at fault.
Mr Js financial advisor has said that it doesnt use IFDLs platform as often as others. And 
I think that was apparent from the phone call it had with IFDL before moving Mr Js pension 
investments into cash. IFDL explained how that transaction should be completed and 
ensured its successful input by the financial advisor by checking its systems in real time.
But that call also supports the documentation that IFDL has given us about how the platform 
is used. It is designed to be used by financial advisors on behalf of their clients. IFDL doesnt 
provide anything other than an execution of the advisors instructions. And the end client, 
Mr J in this case, also doesnt have access to the system. The activity is managed by the 
financial advisor and the DFM.
The move of Mr Js pension savings to cash was completed successfully. But Mr J also had 
an agreement in place with a DFM. And as a result of that agreement the DFM instructed 
IFDL, as it had been authorised to do, to rebalance Mr Js pension investments. Essentially 
that process was designed to ensure that Mr Js pension investments remained in line with a 
specified model following any changes in the values of the individual components.It doesnt appear that the DFM was aware that Mr J had moved his pension savings into 
cash in anticipation of his retirement. So the rebalancing activity seems to be an entirely 
routine activity that could have been performed across the investment portfolios of any of its 
clients. And I havent seen anything to make me think that IFDL should have been aware of 
any schedule on which that rebalancing would take place.
Having listened to the call between the financial advisor and IFDL there was no mention of 
any rebalancing activity. I dont think that the responsibility to identify the possibility that 
activity might take place falls on IFDL. So it isnt reasonable to conclude that IFDL is 
responsible for any fall in the value of Mr Js pension investments caused by them being 
moved from cash as a result of the rebalancing activity.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr J. He made a prudent decision to 
move his pension savings into cash to protect their value in anticipation of his forthcoming 
retirement. And due to activities outside his control that transaction was effectively reversed 
just a few weeks later leading to a significant fall in the value of his pension savings. But 
I dont think that transaction was the responsibility of IFDL, nor do I think it was something 
that IFDL should have warned Mr Js financial advisor about on the initial call.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Investment Funds Direct Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman