DRN-4299441
The complaint
Mr M complains that third party information was recorded on his credit file by Equifax Limited 
trading as Equifax.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Last year, Mr M looked at his Equifax credit file and found details that related to third parties 
with the same name recorded. Mr M contacted Equifax and ultimately raised a complaint that 
financial information that didnt relate to him was showing on his credit file.
Mr M went on to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and it was passed 
to an investigator. Equifax provided a case file that included a credit report which showed 
third parties credit commitments. Equifax also provided a more recent credit report that had 
been updated so that only Mr Ms financial commitments were displayed. But the credit 
report showed another individual of the same name had been registered on the electoral roll 
in the past.
The investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. They said that whilst there was no evidence of a 
financial loss as a result of the details included on Mr Ms credit file Equifaxs actions had 
caused a reasonable level of distress and inconvenience. The investigator asked Equifax to 
pay Mr M £300 and to offer a CIFAS fraud prevention marker free of charge for two years. 
But the investigator noted third party electoral roll information remained on Mr Ms updated 
Equifax credit file and said it should take steps to remove it.
Equifax agreed to pay the compensation awarded and apply the CIFAS fraud prevention 
marker. But Equifax said that because of the way information is supplied by local authorities, 
its not possible for it to remove the third partys details recorded at Mr Ms property from his 
credit file. Our investigator said Equifax should make amendments to its systems to ensure 
the third partys electoral roll details dont show on Mr Ms credit file.
Equifax responded further to say that the local authority reports electoral roll information for 
all individuals who have resided at a property but dont provide dates of birth. That means, 
because the third partys first and surname are identical to Mr Ms and he resided at the 
same address its not possible to remove the reference to their electoral roll registration. In 
addition, Equifax said that electoral roll registration for other individuals at Mr Ms address 
should have no impact on his eligibility for credit with lenders who use the electoral roll 
information provided to confirm residency. As Equifax didnt accept the investigators 
recommendations and said it couldnt amend its systems Mr Ms complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I can understand why Mr M was concerned to find other peoples financial information 
recorded on his credit file with Equifax. Mr M has explained that it appears his brothers 
accounts were recorded. And Mr M has pointed to another partys accounts and electoral roll 
information which also appeared on his credit file. Equifax has confirmed Mr Ms credit file 
included other parties financial information, including credit commitments, and explained 
thats due to the similarities between their names. Mr M has the same first and surname as 
the other parties and shares the same address as his brother. In addition, it appears 
someone with the same name lived at Mr Ms address and was previously recorded as being 
on the electoral roll by the local authority. Equifax has explained that its systems incorrectly 
matched the data from other individuals with the same name and address details as Mr M 
which is why information was recorded on his credit file.
I can see that when Equifax reviewed the information on Mr Ms credit file it took steps to 
remove the third party credit commitments. The credit report dated 19 January 2023 only 
includes financial information and credit commitments that are in Mr Ms name. So Im 
satisfied that, overall, Equifax did take reasonable steps to resolve the issues with Mr Ms 
credit file.
The sticking point here is that our investigator asked Equifax to change its systems to ensure 
the third partys electoral roll information is no longer shown on Mr Ms credit report. But 
Equifax has explained that due to the way local authorities report data concerning electoral 
roll information and the way its systems work, its not possible to remove that information. 
Ive recently been back to Equifax to double check whether theres anything further it can do 
to help and its confirmed theres no way of removing or amending the electoral roll 
information supplied by the local authority from Mr Ms credit file. That means when Mr M
looks at his credit file with Equifax he may continue to see the electoral roll information 
reported by the local authority, including reference to individuals with the same name. I 
appreciate thats not what Mr M wants to hear but Ive considered whether theres a negative 
impact to him in terms of the information recorded.
In its response, Equifax made the point that when a lender completes a credit search it 
obtains information that is specific to the applicant. And the electoral roll information that is 
recorded about Mr M on his credit file is correct. In addition, Equifax explains that the 
electoral information provided by the local authority is public information. As a result, a 
lenders credit report will show the details of all individuals recorded at an address, 
regardless of their name. That means, theres no impact to Mr M in terms of the way the 
electoral roll information is recorded on his credit file.
Having considered the available information, Im satisfied that when a business carries out a 
credit search on Mr M the correct electoral roll information will be supplied by Equifax. 
Ultimately I cant force a business to change the way its systems operate. And Im satisfied 
that the steps Equifax has taken have resolved the incorrect third party information recorded 
on Mr Ms credit file.Should problems regarding third party information appearing on Mr Ms credit file occur 
again in the future he will have recourse to revisit the issue with Equifax and, if necessary, 
raise a new complaint.
I agree with the investigator that the issues raised by Mr M have caused him a reasonable 
level of distress and inconvenience. Clearly findings third party information, including that of 
a family member, on your credit file is cause for concern. I agree with the investigator that a 
payment of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair in the circumstances of 
Mr Ms complaint.
In addition, I think the provision of a CIFAS warning for two years is reasonable to provide an 
additional layer of security for Mr M after third party information was recorded on his credit 
file.
I invited both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr M responded and said the third parties information on his credit file had impacted his 
credit rating and meant he was unable to get approved for finance. Mr M also explained that 
Equifax had admitted it had breached confidential information of its clients. Mr M went on to 
explain that being unable to obtain credit had led to a serious impact on his ability to work 
and obtain finance to purchase a car. Mr M explained he would be willing to settle for a 
substantially higher sum and that he was considering taking legal action against Equifax. 
Equifax responded to confirm its willing to settle in line with the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reviewed the information on file again, including the credit files provided. All 
parties agree that third party information was recorded on Mr Ms credit file. As Equifax has 
already explained, similarities in the names and addresses led to its systems incorrectly 
matching third party information to Mr Ms credit file. And the third party information was 
removed from Mr Ms credit file by Equifax, so its only showing his entries. 
I understand Mr Ms view is that Equifax has breached the confidentiality of the parties 
involved. But in this decision, I can only look at Mr Ms complaint and how the information 
recorded on his credit file impacted him. The information recorded on Mr Ms credit file 
relates to other individuals. Theres nothing on file that shows Mr Ms information was shared 
elsewhere. So whilst I can understand Mr Ms concern that other peoples details were 
shared with him, I havent see anything that shows Mr Ms private information was shared. 
Mr M has explained that due to the number of duplicate accounts showing on his credit file 
he was unable to secure finance, including a loan to buy a car. Ive looked at Mr Ms credit 
file to see if theres evidence that shows he was turned down for credit. I dont doubt that 
having third party information recorded couldve caused some difficulties. But the credit file 
doesnt show evidence of declined credit applications. And the credit file shows Mr M was 
able to open new commitments, including credit cards and contracts with communication 
suppliers, during the period in question. 
I accept that the incorrect information mayve caused Mr M some difficulties when applying 
for credit. But I havent been persuaded that there are grounds to increase the award beyond £300. In my view, £300 reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M 
overall and is a fair and reasonable way to resolve his complaint. 
Mr M has explained that hes considering legal action. If Mr M doesnt accept this final 
decision, he is free to consider legal action. I leave it to Mr M to decide how he wishes to 
proceed. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent been persuaded to change the settlement I 
reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld, for the 
same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Equifax Limited trading as Equifax 
to settle as follows: 
- Pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused
- Offer a CIFAS fraud prevention marker for two years free of charge
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman