DRN-3306651
The complaint
Mrs G (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt complete proper affordability checks before approving her 
Safety Net facility or at each new instance of borrowing.
 
What happened
Mrs G approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in July 2018. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mrs G was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mrs G was initially given a facility with a £150 credit limit in July 2018. Her limit was 
increased on a further seven occasions with her final increase taking Mrs Gs credit limit to 
£650 by August 2019. 
Mrs G had some problems repaying her facility and SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman 
that as of December 2021 an outstanding balance remained of £754.83. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Gs complaint. She could see that before the facility 
was approved SNC had access to 90 days of read only bank statements. In the adjudicators 
view, the information SNC gathered about Mrs Gs circumstances suggested she would be 
able to afford the repayments she was committed to making even though she had some 
concerns about how SNC has calculated Mrs Gs income. But overall, she though it was 
reasonable for the facility to have been granted. 
However, the adjudicator explained SNC had an obligation to monitor Mrs Gs use of the 
facility. And she thought, SNC shouldnt have allowed the further credit limit increase in 
March 2019. 
She could see, from the bank statements that Mrs Gs income had decreased since the 
facility had been approved and was also in receipt of benefits. The adjudicator could also 
see a significant amount of cash withdrawals each month, which given there wasnt any 
other living costs visible in the bank statement data this led her to conclude these 
withdrawals were likely for living costs. 
This along with the way Mrs G had used the facility up to this point in time meant it was no 
longer affordable or sustainable for her. 
Mrs Gs representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment and the 
ombudsman referral letter, but no further comments were provided. 
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it didnt make any points about the 
outcome that was reached. Instead, it focused on whether the Financial Ombudsman had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. In summary it said: 
it hasnt received proper authorisation from Mrs G to allow her representative to deal 
with the complaint;
SNC says that no valid complaint has ever been made which is why no final 
response has been issued; 
SNC doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction because no final 
response has been issued and so doesnt constitute a complaint as laid down by the 
rules (DISP);
although Mrs Gs representative has provided a wet signature SNC doesnt have 
anything to compare it to;
the approach SNC takes to verify with a consumer is reasonable and has her privacy 
and data protection in mind and
SNC has had concerns about the authority given and this has been backed up by the 
content of a Dear CEO letter from the industry regulator.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns in the ombudsman referral letter. She 
explained SNC had been given more than eight weeks to investigate Mrs Gs complaint 
following the representatives complaint and from when we informed SNC that the complaint 
would be taken on and progressed. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look at this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by SNC as to why it 
considers this complaint to be outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. 
Ive thought carefully about what SNC has said, but like our adjudicator explained, Im not 
persuaded there is any reason why the Financial Ombudsman cant consider this complaint. 
It is disappointing that SNC has taken the stance that it has in relation to this particular 
jurisdiction issue considering that, in my view, it is patently incorrect and is therefore simply 
delaying the resolution of this complaint.
SNC has clearly had significantly longer than the eight weeks afforded to it by the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules to investigate and issue a final response to this complaint. Mrs G 
complained through her representative to SNC in October 2020 (Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me Mrs G hadnt correctly authorised her representative), the complaint was 
referred here on 19 March 2021, and the Financial Ombudsman then wrote to SNC on 
1 April 2021 explaining the complaint was now being taken forward. It is now nearly a year 
later and over a year since the complaint was originally made, but the firm nonetheless 
disputes that it has had eight weeks to consider the complaint. This is clearly wrong in my 
opinion.
SNC has had more than eight weeks in which to investigate the complaint and issue a 
response. Im therefore satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction to consider 
this matter in accordance with DISP and can proceed to issue a decision on the merits of 
Mrs Gs complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. To start with, Mrs G wasnt given a payday loan. Instead she was provided with a credit 
facility where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following a 
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mrs G this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules 
in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of 
the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. 
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did 
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put 
simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed 
decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime that Mrs G had the facility SNC maintained read-only access to her 
bank statements, in order for it to allow SNC to monitor Mrs Gs finances and to allow it to 
carry out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mrs Gs expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Mrs Gs facility was approved for £250 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Mrs 
G would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20, by carrying out a 
proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mrs Gs income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to her bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being granted 
(in this case from 3 May 2018). It then used an algorithm to establish what Mrs Gs income 
and expenditure was, after completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mrs G 
could afford the minimum repayment towards the facility.  
It also carried out a credit search, before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and while there was some adverse information such 
as defaults. But, based on everything else, I dont think these results which wouldve led 
SNC to either decline the application or prompt it to have carried out further checks into 
Mrs Gs situation before the facility was approved. 
It would appear Mrs G seems to accept our adjudicators opinion, that SNC wasnt wrong to 
have initially approved her credit facility. For the avoidance of doubt, I also dont think SNC 
was wrong to have initially granted the facility  SNC wouldve thought based on the review 
of Mrs Gs bank statements that shed be able to afford to repay her facility within a 
reasonable period of time. 
I also dont think SNC categorised Mrs Gs income correctly. Looking at the bank statements 
Mrs G appeared to receive her salary around 29th of each month along with benefit 
payments as well. There are other credits, such as a refund from a credit card but I dont 
think that would be reasonable to class that as income when it was likely to be a one-off 
payment. 
Notwithstanding my concerns about the way SNC has categorised Mrs Gs salary, I still think 
it was reasonable of SNC to conclude Mrs G could afford to make the repayments she was 
committed to making. So, this decision will instead focus on whether SNC did enough to monitor Mrs Gs facility 
whilst she held it and whether there was a point at which SNC shouldve halted any further 
drawdowns on it.
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I do think, like the 
adjudicator it was unfair for it to have allowed Mrs G to continue drawing down on the facility 
after the credit limit increase in March 2019.  This is because I think the way she was using 
the facility indicated she wasnt using it in a sustainable manner. Ill explain below why I think 
this is the case.  
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the FCA through 
CONC. I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in CONC and how it applies to this 
case. 
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like 
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. 
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mrs Gs use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial 
difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC had a good indication of Mrs Gs actual financial position, because 
throughout the time of her having the facility it had read-only access to her bank account. 
And by March 2019 I think SNC had seen enough to have realised that Mrs Gs repayment 
of the facility was now unsustainable. 
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Mrs G to continue to drawdown, Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments and then when Mrs G returned for further borrowing. After all, if Mrs G was 
drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking a payment from her account this ought 
to have indicated that SNC was causing her to once again borrow the funds that SNC had 
just taken. 
When considering all of the information SNC had available to it about Mrs Gs circumstances 
along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think by the credit limit increase 
in March 2019, it was clear that the facility had become unsustainable - and simply collecting 
the full outstanding balance on the account and then allowing Mrs G to once again over the 
course to borrow funds taking her back up to her credit limit was detrimental to her financial 
situation.
But instead of doing this SNC increased his credit limit. This meant that it would default to 
taking even larger payments from Mrs Gs account thus leaving a greater hole in her 
finances.
Given Mrs Gs repayment history, the facility would be repaid in full rather than repaying it 
over a reasonable period of time. This is important because at this time, SNC has calculated 
Mrs Gs disposable income as being around £675 with a credit limit of £600. So based on 
SNCs own calculations (and taking into account how the facility was used) Mrs G didnt 
have enough disposable income to repay the facility in full (plus interest) because I dont think it was reasonable of SNC to continue to believe that the facility would be repaid over a 
reasonable period of time. 
In addition to the way that Mrs G had used the facility, there is now evidence from her bank 
statements to show she was also borrowing from another high cost credit provider. She also 
didnt have any visible outgoings on her statements apart from what I believe to be a weekly 
repayment to her council to cover her rent. There are lots of cash withdrawals, so given the 
lack of monthly expenditure, I also think its reasonable to believe that some of those cash 
withdrawals were likely going towards covering her living costs such as utilities and food. 
So, taking into account how Mrs G was using the facility repaying it full each month meant 
SNC needed to have considered that as part of its affordability assessment. Along with the 
cash withdrawals and her other commitments that she had to repay such as rent and the 
high cost short term loan I no longer think the facility was affordable or sustainable for 
Mrs G. 
So when SNC further increased Mrs Gs credit limit around March 2019 Mrs G had 
demonstrated that she wasnt using the facility as SNC had intended, she was quickly 
borrowing down and repaying the facility in the same month, and so she wasnt benefiting 
from or making use of the interest free period of time that was attached to the facility, after 
the first 40 days after a drawdown. 
Overall and having thought about everything, I think that SNC shouldve proactively 
intervened and contacted Mrs G to arrange for her to repay what she owed within a 
reasonable period of time. 
Im therefore upholding Mrs Gs complaint from the credit limit increase in March 2019. 
Putting things right
If the debt has since been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back 
and then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back 
then it needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from the credit 
limit increase in March 2019.
B) Treat all payments Mrs G has made towards their account since the credit limit 
increase in March 2019 as though they had been repayments of outstanding 
principal.
C) If at any point Mrs G wouldve been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs G but Id remind it of its obligation to 
treat Mrs G fairly and with forbearance. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mrs Gs credit file 
from March 2019.*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mrs G as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman