The complaint 
Mr Rs complaint is about the refurbishment charges he was asked to pay when returning a 
car being financing through an agreement with Ald Automotive Limited, trading as Kia 
Contract Hire (Kia).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
the terms of Mr Rs contract with Kia said that the car should be returned in a
condition consistent with its age and mileage and that Mr R would be responsible for
the costs associated with refurbishing any damage if the condition wasnt
satisfactory.
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) provide the industry
guidelines on what should be considered fair wear and tear when a car is returned at
the end of a lease. The third party inspection will have been conducted with that
standard in mind. The guidelines say that scratches of up to 25mm are allowable as
long as the scratch hasnt penetrated to the primer. They also say that chips are
allowable unless they require the whole panel to be repaired or repainted.
I have reviewed the photographs provided by the inspector. I think:
othe damage to the left hand front door is a mixture of a scratch and some
chipping. The chipping is down to the white primer and so are the scratch
marks. I think this damage is in excess of the BVRLA guidance and I dont
think Kia have been unfair when making a charge for refurbishment.
othe damage to the right hand rear door is to my mind a chip thats about 5mm
in diameter. The inspectors report says the damage will need refinishing. I
think its fair to suggest this means the panel will need to be repainted. So
again I think the damage is beyond fair wear and tear and Kia have not been
unreasonable when making a charge for refurbishment.
I understand that the Kias handing your vehicle back leaflet provides a slightly
different standard. I dont think it would be fair for Kia to apply a standard that was
more stringent than the BVRLA industry guidance. But, for completeness, I have
reviewed the damage against this standard as well and I think in both instances the
chips that are present are in excess of 3mm and are therefore chargeable under that
scheme.
DRN-1695268Mr R complains that the charges are excessive but I dont think I have sufficient
evidence to say thats true. The damage charges that have been applied seem
broadly in line with other charges Ive seen levied by the business competitors in
similar complaints. So Im not persuaded the charges are excessive.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Ald Automotive Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman