DRN-4312200
The complaint
Mr U complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to remove a block on his savings account after 
he visited the branch with his identification, and this prevented him from moving his funds to 
a higher interest account. Mr U is represented by a relative, but I have just referred to Mr U.
What happened
Mr U said he made numerous calls to Lloyds in order to move his money out of a poor 
performing savings account and into a higher interest account or a fixed rate bond. He said 
he was told each time that Lloyds would unblock his account, but it never did, so his funds 
had to remain in a very low interest account. Mr U complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds said the block was added by its automated system to Mr Us account in June 2018 as 
a fraud verification block to ensure the validity of any further transactions made by the 
named account signature. Mr U said his savings have now been moved from the low 
interest Lloyds account into a 4% interest one-year fixed bond at Lloyds which is what he 
wanted to do more than a year ago but couldnt as Lloyds blocked the account.
Lloyds explained that the block was placed on the account to prevent fraud when Mr U 
turned 16 and the account changed from a Young Saver to a Standard Saver. On 17 
February 2023, Mr U contacted Lloyds via its messaging service and confirmed that the 
block was still in place and preventing him from moving his funds. Mr U told Lloyds he went 
to the branch on 15 February 2023 and presented the relevant ID. Lloyds couldnt confirm 
this as Mr U didnt respond to its request for clarification, but accepted Mr Us account. The 
block was removed on 21 February 2023 following investigation by the complaints team. 
Lloyds responded to Mr U to say it had caused him inconvenience by not removing the block 
on his account. It said it had now removed the block and paid him £60 compensation. 
Mr U said he earned only £580 interest from his Lloyds savings account, but had he been 
able to move his funds, he would have earned £3,510 interest. He found this very frustrating 
and is angry that Lloyds has only paid him £60 as a consolation. He said Lloyds should pay 
him for the lost interest of at least £2,920. Mr U referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Lloyds delayed the 
removal of the block on Mr Us account, but the £60 compensation was a fair response. She 
said Mr U called Lloyds on 14 February 2023 to ask why he couldnt transfer his savings and 
Lloyds said a block required him to verify his identity in branch. The investigator said the 
block could have been removed in branch when Mr U presented the correct identification, 
but Lloyds actioned his request in two working days after. Lloyds has no record of Mr U 
contacting it before that and Mr U couldnt give the dates of when he first contacted Lloyds. 
Mr U disagreed with the investigator, but didnt provide any further reasons. Mr Us complaint 
has been referred to me as an ombudsman to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U is unhappy about the amount of time a block was present on his savings account as 
this prevented him from moving his funds to a higher interest account. I can well understand 
his frustration about this as he might have obtained a better interest rate at the time. But I 
dont know what within the investigators findings Mr U disagrees with. And so I have looked 
carefully to see if Lloyds treated Mr U fairly in its handling of the block on his account and 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Lloyds has explained that the block on the account was put in place as a matter of policy to 
require a child account holder to provide a signature for the account on reaching a set age. 
Lloyds told Mr U it was disappointing the block wasnt removed when he visited the branch. 
Lloyds agreed that the service it provided to Mr U had been poor and paid him £60 
compensation.
When a customer has lost out as a consequence of a mistake made by a business we look 
at the impact of that mistake to see if compensation is due and how much should be paid. 
Unfortunately the parties disagree about the period during which Mr U was asking Lloyds to 
remove the block and the period of the delay until the block was removed on 21 February 
2023. 
In this situation we have to be guided by the available evidence to decide what is most likely 
to have taken place. Mr U said he had been contacting Lloyds for about a year to get the 
block removed and the block stopped him from moving his funds to a higher interest 
account. However, Lloyds only has calls from Mr Us phone recorded for 14 February 2023, 
which was followed by his visit to its branch the next day and his messages on its system on 
17 February 2023. 
In response to our specific request to Lloyds to check for Mr Us communications, these are 
the only relevant records that it holds. And Mr U has no records or remembrance with which 
to challenge this and so I have to respect the evidence. 
On the recording of Mr Us call to Lloyds of 14 February 2023 he advises Lloyds 
representative that he has recently tried to move money from the account using his online 
banking app but cant due to a block on the account. And says he hasnt transacted on the 
account prior to this for a long time. Lloyds said it had no record of a request or complaint 
being raised by Mr U to move his funds to a higher interest account or a fixed rate bond 
before this time. 
Lloyds records give a delay period of one week from 14 to 21 February 2023. And in respect 
of this delay, I think Lloyds compensation of £60 for the impact on Mr U is fair and 
reasonable.
I realise Mr U will be disappointed with this decision, but I hope he can see the reasons it 
has been reached. And I hope he has much more positive experiences in dealing with his 
account in future.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman