DRN-3642435
The complaint
Mrs Ws complaint is about poor customer service by Santander UK Plc when she was trying 
to have a mortgage account transferred into her sole name.
To settle the complaint, Mrs W would like Santander to compensate her for her expenses, 
time, trouble, distress and inconvenience, including the legal fees she incurred in dealing 
with Santander.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and so I dont need to repeat all the details here, only a short summary. In addition, 
Santander has accepted it made mistakes, so I dont need to analyse the events in detail in 
order to decide whether or not the bank is at fault. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include 
any information that might lead to Mrs W being identified. 
Briefly, Mrs W and her husband (Mr W) had a mortgage with Santander, taken out in 2009. I 
am sorry to note that Mr W passed away in February 2020. Mr W had previously been 
declared bankrupt and his Trustee in Bankruptcy (TiB) had a beneficial interest in the equity 
in the property. 
Prior to Mr Ws death, his solicitors asked Santander if the title deeds could be transferred 
into the joint names of Mrs W and her father, but Santander explained that this would also 
require the mortgage account to be changed into their names too. Santander also said the 
account needed to be free of arrears for 12 months before it could agree to this, and that a 
second charge wouldnt be possible. After Mr W passed away, Santander requested a Grant 
of Probate, but later agreed this wasnt necessary, due to Mr Ws estate passing to the TiB. 
Without setting out all the details, Santander agreed to consider an application to transfer the 
mortgage into Mrs Ws name, subject to an affordability check. Santander later conceded 
that it didnt require an affordability check. Mrs W was also given conflicting information 
about what Santander needed, and in addition, a mistake was made when an update wasnt 
added to the system. 
The mortgage was repaid in November 2020 when the property was sold.
In response to Mrs Ws complaint, Santander acknowledged it had made mistakes and in 
total offered compensation of £750. Mrs W didnt accept this and complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Mrs W said shed incurred substantial legal costs as a result of her 
solicitors corresponding with Santander about the matter.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He thought Santander should do more to 
compensate Mrs W. He asked Santander to pay an additional £250 (bringing total 
compensation for trouble and upset to £1,000). The investigator also asked Santander to 
refund £400 of Mrs Ws legal costs, and refund five months interest payments on the 
mortgage, as well as five months council tax payments on the property (plus interest of 8% 
simple per annum).
Mrs W didnt think the compensation was sufficient. Santander asked for, and was provided 
with, evidence of the council tax payments, and agreed to this redress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Santander has accepted it made mistakes, the only issue I need to determine is the 
level of compensation that should be paid for this.
This wasnt a straightforward matter, either prior to Mr Ws death or afterwards, because of 
the interest the TiB had in the property. Santander has acknowledged it made mistakes and 
wasted Mrs Ws time. Im glad to see the bank has accepted responsibility for this.
I think if Santander hadnt made these errors, things could have been resolved much sooner 
and Mrs W would have been able to sell the property at an earlier stage. In all the 
circumstances, therefore, I think its right that Santander reimburses Mrs W for five months 
interest on the mortgage, as well as five months council tax (evidence of which Santander 
has been given), with interest on those payments at 8% per annum simple. 
I agree with the investigator that an award of compensation for distress and inconvenience 
of £1,000 in total is also fair, taking into account any compensation already offer or paid by 
Santander.
In relation to legal fees, Mrs W says that she incurred legal costs of £10,000 for the period 
March-July 2020. That seems excessive to me for a High Street firm for the work that was 
needed and the period covered. Im not persuaded Mrs W needed a solicitor to deal with 
Santander on her behalf, and so I cant see any basis on which I could reasonably order 
Santander to reimburse £10,000 of legal fees. I think the figure of £400 the investigator 
recommended is fair and proportionate in all the circumstances. 
Putting things right
In order to settle the matter, I direct Santander UK Plc to do the following:
reimburse Mrs W with five months mortgage interest;
reimburse Mrs W for five months of council tax payments, evidence of which has been 
given to Santander;
pay interest at 8% per annum simple on the mortgage interest and council tax payments, 
from the date each payment was made to the date of settlement. (If Santander considers 
that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from any interest, it 
should tell Mrs W how much it has taken off. Santander should also give Mrs W a tax 
deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.)
pay Mrs W £400 for legal fees;pay total compensation of £1,000 (including any compensation already offered or paid) 
for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct 
Santander UK Plc to settle the complaint as I have explained above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman