DRN-1657287
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2002 with a 
credit card. Miss S says Barclays Bank UK Plc, (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss S says she would never have knowingly opted for PPI and says she applied for it on 
the telephone. Barclays says it was added to her account after she requested cover during 
an online application. 
Where there is a dispute like this, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the 
available evidence - this includes Miss Ss testimony and any documents both Miss S and 
Barclays have submitted. 
Barclays has given us a copy of its record of Miss Ss credit card and PPI application which 
shows her application was completed over the INTERNET. Additionally, I note Miss S 
initially said she applied for her credit card over the internet in her questionnaire to this 
service. Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely she applied for her credit card and 
PPI online. 
Barclays has given us examples of the online screens Miss S wouldve been expected to 
complete in her online application and these show that customers were given a choice to 
add or decline PPI. Barclays provided its online customers with the option to either click Yes 
to add PPI, or No to decline it. I can also see from Barclayss record of her application that 
PPI was selected. 
Having thought carefully about everything Ive seen and heard, I think its more likely that 
Miss S clicked the Yes box and selected PPI. So, overall, I think Barclays made it clear that 
Miss S didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Barclays advised Miss S to take the PPI, so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss S got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as Ive said, I think its more likely she chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time, she was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it wouldve been useful for her if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Miss S says her employer provided her with some sick pay and she also had some savings 
she couldve used to help her make repayments if she had found herself unexpectedly out of 
work. She also had death in service benefit through her employer. Finally, she adds her 
parents and partner couldve provided her with support. 
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of any employee benefits her employer provided 
such as the sick pay. It couldve also have paid out for up to 12 months if Miss S couldnt 
work because illness, injury or unemployment. I think she wouldve found that useful 
especially for the period after her full sick pay ended. Death in service benefit does not 
provide the same type of cover as PPI. 
Having the policy also left her savings available for other essential expenditure. And while I 
have no doubt that Miss Ss parents and partner would want to help her, their ability to help 
would depend on their own circumstances at the time  which could change. 
Overall, I think having a policy pay out in difficult times for up to 12 months would still have 
been useful for her. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. 
With all this in mind, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Which means Barclays doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss S about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman