DRN-2610606
The complaint
Mr H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC has declined to help him in a dispute over a holiday 
booking paid for on his credit card.
What happened
Mr H needed to visit Jamaica early in 2020 and made arrangements for his trip on the 
website of a well-known online travel provider I will call L. Hr H says he saw a booking 
online going from Manchester in the UK to Montego Bay in Jamaica, along with six nights at 
a hotel and transfers to and from the airport. Mr H says he called L to discuss the booking 
before making it online. He paid a total of £2,264.72 on his Barclays credit card on 12 
January 2020. 
The same day, Mr H received a pre-confirmation email, but he says he didnt receive 
confirmation of the booking until 14 January 2020, less than 24 hours before he was due to 
fly, after ringing L many times. Mr H says he received this confirmation over the phone, and 
during this call L said they had to cancel and refund his transfers because they had been 
unable to confirm these. 
Mr H arrived at Manchester in the early hours of 15 January 2020 and, after some 
discussion with the airport helpdesk realised that his ticket had been booked from another 
airport which shared the same name, in North America. He spoke to the airline and L to try 
to resolve the situation but they were unwilling to amend the flight, and L said it was his fault 
for booking the wrong flight. As a result, Mr H had to book a new set of flights for £1,315.28, 
and lost a day of his trip.
Mr H contacted Barclays to make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA), because L had booked the wrong flight. He was also very unhappy about the 
customer service hed received from L and thought they were behaving in an underhand 
manner. Barclays wrote to Mr H on 1 April 2020 to say it didnt have enough evidence that L 
had made an error, and couldnt establish that it had breached its contract with Mr H, or 
misrepresented something to him. As a result, it said it couldnt pursue his claim further. 
Mr H complained to Barclays about this. It wrote to him at the end of April 2020 standing by 
the decision not to uphold his claim. Mr H complained again, and Barclays then wrote to him 
on 11 September 2020 again standing by their decision but offering him £50 for taking a long 
time to respond to a letter he had sent in the summer. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr H asked this service to look into the matter. One of our 
investigators took on Mr Hs case. He came to the conclusion that Barclays hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Hs section 75 claim. Mr H disagreed and the 
complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers a degree of protection when they pay for goods or 
services on a credit card, so long as certain criteria are met. If these criteria are met then the 
consumer can claim against their credit card provider for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services.
Neither party to this case has argued that the technical criteria havent been met for Mr H to 
be able to make a claim under section 75, so I will comment no more on this point other than 
to say that having looked at the evidence I think Mr Hs claim meets the necessary criteria. I 
have therefore gone on to consider whether there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which someone relies on and which causes 
them to make a decision which is to their disadvantage. A breach of contract is a failure by 
one party to the contract to hold up their end of the agreement. Breaches can be of express 
terms written into the agreement, or terms which are treated as being included, for example 
because the law says they must be.
The error in Mr Hs booking
As his booking agent, L was responsible for making the travel arrangements that Mr H had 
asked it to make for him. The problem Mr H has had, expressed in its most essential terms, 
is that the flights he thought had been booked were not the flights that were actually booked. 
I can imagine how stressful the situation must have been when he arrived for his flight at the 
airport only to find it was departing from the other side of the Atlantic Ocean, and his 
frustration with L for not doing more to help him. 
In my view there are two possibilities here. The first is that Mr H entered the airport he 
intended to fly from in the UK when he booked online, and L then made a mistake in booking 
tickets on a flight going from another airport with the same name. If this has happened, L 
would be in breach of contract with Mr H. The second possibility is that Mr H made a mistake 
when booking and selected an airport with the same name in a different country. 
Either of the above scenarios could have happened, but I have to determine what has 
happened on the balance of probabilities  in other words I need to decide what is most 
likely to have happened, based on the limited information available to me.
This will come as a disappointment to Mr H, but I think it is more likely that he made a 
mistake when he entered the booking details online. Ive tested the booking process myself 
and it is something which wouldnt, in my opinion, be a difficult mistake to make because the 
airports have the same city name. Given online bookings like this are automated, it seems 
unlikely to me that there was human error at Ls end. An error with the automated system is 
possible but it doesnt seem as likely to me as the alternative. I think L booked Mr H onto the 
flights he selected online, and therefore they didnt breach their contract with him by doing 
so.
Ive thought about whether Mr Hs phone call with L before he booked online makes a 
difference. Mr H has said it was apparent that he was in the UK, so when he was discussing 
his travel arrangements with Ls representative, they should have spotted the problem before 
he made his booking. I have very little detail about this phone call and what exactly was said. 
Its not clear to me if the representative would have known Mr H was about to book a flight 
from an airport in a different country, and even if they did I cant be sure that they should 
have assumed he was making a mistake. Ultimately, I think the details of the phone call are 
too vague for me to be able to say that L gave Mr H false or incorrect information about his 
prospective booking, and that this caused the wrong flights to be booked.Ls refusal to amend Mr Hs booking
Ive also considered whether L should have allowed Mr H to change his flights after it 
became apparent they involved the wrong airport. Mr H has pointed out that when the 
problem came to light, there were still quite a few hours before the flight (in the USA) was 
due to leave. Mr H thinks L should have been more helpful, and hes questioned their 
motives for refusing to assist him.
Im limited here to considering Ls contractual obligations to Mr H, and not whether they 
should have helped him as a matter of good customer service or as a gesture of goodwill. 
That is because I am looking at Barclays potential liability to him under section 75, which is 
limited to breaches of contract and misrepresentations.
A full copy of Mr Hs contract with L hasnt been provided. It appears this would have been 
attached to, or linked from, his booking confirmation email, which we have partial 
screenshots of. Mr H says he no longer has the emails related to his booking and has 
suggested L should provide the information needed. Unfortunately, neither L nor the airlines 
website appear to have a record of his booking. This means I cant be sure what the 
contractual agreement was between Mr H and L in the event that Mr H needed to change 
something about his booking, and I have had to again determine what is most likely to have 
been the case based on the limited information available.
Our investigator was able to find a copy of Ls booking conditions, but these were dated 
more than four years before Mr Hs booking and before major changes in the law, so I am 
not convinced they would be representative of the agreement Mr H and L entered into. I was 
able to obtain a copy of the current booking conditions, but I am mindful of the fact that these 
may also not be the same as the ones which applied to Mr Hs booking. As I mentioned 
earlier, Mr H no longer has his booking emails which might have contained this information. 
Ive taken the view that the current booking conditions are most likely to be representative of 
the ones which would have applied to Mr Hs booking, in the absence of any other 
information.
The current booking conditions say that changes to a booking would ultimately be up to the 
discretion of the airline, and subject to fees from both L and the airline itself. Importantly, the 
conditions also say: 
If you wish to make a change in your reservation via the Company, please call us at least 
24 hours prior to your flight departure using the number indicated in your booking 
confirmation email. The Company will not consider requests after established deadlines, nor 
any request received via other media or communication channels.
There is a similarly worded section in the booking conditions for scenarios where a customer 
wants to cancel their flights:
If you wish to cancel your flight booking, you can directly contact the airline or use the 
services of the Company by telephoning our Customer Care Team which will evaluate the 
possibility of cancelling your flight based on the applicable fare and will directly manage your 
booking with the airline. The Company only manages these type of requests up to 24 hours 
before the departure of your flight by telephoning the number indicated in the confirmation 
email, you cannot request the cancellation of your reservation by any other means or form of 
communication.
When Mr H called L, there were only a few hours before the flight. So it doesnt appear to me 
that by refusing to help change (or cancel) the flights, L was in breach of its contract with 
him.Did the delays in confirming Mr Hs booking mean he lost the opportunity to change or 
cancel?
Mr H has pointed out there was a delay in L confirming his booking. He booked on 12 
January 2020 and says he didnt receive a confirmation email until the afternoon of 14 
January 2020. His flight was due to depart at 10:30 GMT (5:30 Eastern Time), so If L had 
not confirmed his booking until after 10:30 GMT on 14 January 2020, then its arguable that 
this prevented him from being able to change his flight in accordance with Ls booking 
conditions. Ls booking conditions are a little unclear on how soon the company should 
confirm a booking  they say that if a confirmation email hasnt been received within 24 
hours then a customer should contact them, but they also say that a booking would be 
confirmed or rejected within three business days. 
I cant see the date or time on Mr Hs confirmation email from L as the top part of it is cut off, 
so I cant be sure of the exact timings. But Im not convinced in any event that the booking 
confirmation arriving earlier or later would have changed what ultimately happened. I say this 
because Mr H didnt notice there was an issue with the tickets until he arrived at the airport 
and was told about the problem by members of staff. I think its likely this would have been 
the case regardless of whether he received the booking confirmation after the 24 hour cut-
off, or closer to the time of his booking. So while I think theres a possibility that L breached 
its contract with him by confirming his booking later than it said it would in the booking 
conditions, Im not convinced this has caused Mr H to lose out. 
Customer service
Its clear Mr H feels strongly that L and Barclays have provided a very poor standard of 
customer service and he is particularly unhappy with L. I note he has recently indicated that 
Ls refusal to help him was motivated by racial prejudice.
I mentioned earlier that Barclays are limited to being liable for breaches of contract or 
misrepresentations by L, due to the protection Mr H has under section 75 of the CCA. Poor 
customer service  and the reasons for this  do not generally fall into either of these 
categories and therefore this isnt something I can direct Barclays to compensate Mr H for, 
or indeed investigate. I can however consider Barclays own customer service after Mr H 
came to it for assistance with his dispute with L.
Barclays has accepted that it took a long time respond to a letter Mr H sent. It offered £50 
compensation for the delay, which Mr H did not accept. I agree Barclays took a long time to 
respond to the letter in question. Im aware of the fact that from late March 2020 Barclays, 
like many banks, was experiencing delays in responding to consumers due to the impact of 
the coronavirus pandemic on its business. Mr Hs letter, and the delayed response, fell within 
this period. While this doesnt necessarily excuse the delay, I dont think Barclays offer of 
compensation was inadequate in the circumstances.
Mr H has also referred to a poor investigation being carried out by Barclays, particularly in 
that it didnt trouble itself to contact L to obtain more information. Barclays explained in its 
letter of 11 September 2020 that it hadnt contacted L because, in essence, it thought the 
fact Mr H had made the booking online meant it was unlikely L had made a mistake. 
I think Barclays could have been more thorough. They could, for example, have investigated 
whether L was contractually obliged to change the flights once Mr H had notified them of the 
problem. But in the end, I dont think it would have likely made a difference to the outcome of 
the claim and so I will not be directing the bank to increase the amount of compensation it 
has offered.Conclusions
I dont think Mr H had a valid claim against L for losses caused by a breach of contract, or 
misrepresentation. As a result, I dont think Barclays was wrong to decline his section 75 
claim. I think the amount of compensation it offered him in relation to the customer service it 
provided is fair. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for him, but he does 
not have to accept my decision. He can reject it and pursue Barclays and L via any other 
alternative avenues that may be available to him, if he wishes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman