DRN-4312323
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Coutts and Company dealt with her request to exchange bank 
notes.
What happened
Mrs M says she called Coutts about exchanging old bank notes for new. She says she was 
told there was no limit on the amount she could exchange but when she attended Coutts, 
was told it couldnt accept them. Mrs M says Coutts later accepted £12,000 in notes but not 
the other £8,000 which it said it couldnt verify. She says she provided evidence of cash 
withdrawals and evidence of a horse sale. Mrs M would like a clear explanation for what took 
place.
Coutts accepts it gave Mrs M incorrect information when she called it about the deposit 
limits. It has apologised and offered to pay £200 for the inconvenience and expense of 
attending its branch. Coutts says its rules requires it to obtain evidence of cash and says it 
was unable to verify the full amount.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us, and our investigator thought Coutts had dealt fairly with 
the complaint. The investigator accepted Coutts made a mistake about the deposit/exchange 
amount but thought it was entitled to decide if it wished to accept the cash.
Mrs M doesnt accept that view and has provided us with the receipt for the horse sale.
I asked Coutts for further information, and it has provided the call recordings and provided 
evidence of the deposit/exchange rules it applies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont require Coutts to do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint but accept it ought to have dealt with parts of it 
more appropriately. I also appreciate Mrs Ms frustrations with Coutts in circumstances 
where it accepted £12,000 of the money but not the other £8,000. I understand why Mrs M 
would find that illogical and at odds with the very rules Coutts says it must comply with.
I have listened to the telephone calls between the parties and am satisfied initially Mrs M 
didnt know how much cash she wanted to exchange. Im also satisfied Coutts fairly gave 
Mrs M other options, but she chose to travel to Coutts. There is no doubt that Mrs M clearly 
asked if there was a limit on the cash exchange and was told there was not. And based on 
that information travelled with £20,000 in cash. I can see Coutts has fairly apologised for that 
mistake and offered to cover Mrs Ms expenses. Im satisfied that offer is fair and 
reasonable, but I appreciate that is not the main part of this complaint. I also think that it was 
Mrs Ms intention to travel back from Coutts with the exchanged cash in any event.
The key part of this complaint is Coutts refusal to exchange all the cash. I have made clear 
that I understand Mrs Ms frustration, as Coutts was content to accept £12,000 but couldnt 
be satisfied as to the legitimacy of the remainder despite accepting that £12,000. I am sure 
Mrs M appreciates that we are not Coutts regulator and that its subject to regulatory duties 
and rules. Its not our role to direct Coutts on how it complies with such rules and 
regulations.
I have looked at Coutts relevant document about this issue and am satisfied that it was 
entitled to ask Mrs M for evidence of the cash, which I accept can be difficult in 
circumstances where it was withdrawn over many years. And I hope Mrs M appreciates that 
its up to Coutts to decide, as I have made clear, if the provided evidence is sufficient. It 
follows that I cant fairly conclude Coutts acted unfairly or made a mistake about this issue. I 
accept Mrs M will have spent some time obtaining the evidence she presented Coutts with 
about the cash in her possession. But, as its up to Coutts to decide if it has complied with its 
regulatory duties, I cant fairly hold it responsible for that time spent by Mrs M.
I find this decision now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally 
can do and it seems in any event Mrs M has now been able to exchange the cash. I 
appreciate Mrs M will have unanswered questions about Coutts stance on this issue, but I 
hope she understands why I cant fairly direct Coutts to accept the money or change its 
policy. If Mrs M wishes to accept Coutts compensation offer, then no doubt she can contact 
it, but I appreciate she may not wish to do so in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman