DRN-2297109
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B have complained about the increase in premiums theyre required to pay for 
their whole of life policy, administered by Countrywide Assurance Plc (Countrywide) and sold 
to them by an independent financial advisor. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr B took out a reviewable whole of life policy in November 1985. The initial sum 
assured was £12,000 and the premium was £15 per month. They elected to have the cover, 
and therefore premium amounts, increase in line with inflation. 
The policy failed a review in 2015, meaning that the monthly premium wasnt enough to 
maintain the sum assured. The cover therefore dropped to approximately £7,680. 
In the 2019 review, it was again found that not enough was being paid into the policy to 
maintain the sum assured. It was explained to Mrs and Mr B that if they wanted to keep the 
sum assured as it was, the monthly premium would need to increase from £44.04 to £71.24.
This is what prompted Mrs and Mr B to complain. They said they dont feel the amount being 
asked from them as an increase in premium is fair. Mrs and Mr B have also said that they 
were told that the initial sum assured was guaranteed. 
Countrywide investigated this complaint and confirmed that the policy was sold by an 
independent financial advisor. They felt that it had been administered and reviewed 
correctly. 
Mrs and Mr B were unhappy with Countrywides response and so brought the complaint to 
this Service. They maintained that the amount being asked of them was not fair. The 
complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt be upheld. He was 
of the view that the amount being asked of Mrs and Mr B as an increase in premium was 
correct.
Mrs and Mr B didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that the increse in 
premium was not fair and the initial sum assured had been guaranteed to them. As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mrs and Mr B that I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here. So, I dont uphold their complaint in this matter. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate that to be told about the decrease in the death benefit and the increase required 
in the premiums in 2015 and 2019 came as a shock to Mrs and Mr B. But ultimately this is 
how reviewable whole of life policies work. So Countrywide hasnt done anything wrong in 
asking for a higher premium or proposing to lower the death benefit. 
Reviews are part of the contract Mrs and Mr B signed up to and their function is to 
specifically ascertain whether enough is being paid into the policy, taking account of the 
investment element, to provide the death benefit at the required time. Given these policies 
are usually in place for tens of years it is very rare for the death benefit to remain the same 
as well as the premiums. The cost of living increases as one gets older, as do mortality rates 
and these are a couple of factors that are taken into account when reviewing the policy and 
calculating the increases and decreases required. The criteria of the calculations are largely 
the same industry wide based on what Ive seen and so are not specific to Countrywide. 
Ultimately this is the nature of these types of policies. An increase in the premiums will 
usually always be required for reviewable whole of life policies if they continue to run more 
than ten years. 
I obviously wasnt present when the policy was sold nor is there a lot of information from the 
time of the sale for me to be certain or comment on what was discussed. The policy 
documents at the time should have explained all these facts and more, and this would have 
been given to Mrs and Mr B when they agreed to take the policy. I have been provided with 
a copy of the policy conditions and they do state that the policy will be reviewed and what 
this means. I am sorry if this wasnt made clear to Mrs and Mr B however, it was the 
resposibility of the advisor at the time to make this clear to Mrs and Mr B. Countrywide cant 
be held responsible if that wasnt done. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mrs and Mr B. As frustrating as it is to have to either 
accept a lower death benefit or pay more into the policy this is simply how these whole of life 
policies work. I am also satisfied that Countrywide has conducted the reviews correctly. 
I therefore dont think the most recent policy review is incorrect or unfair and I dont think that 
Countrywide has done anything wrong. So, I wont be requiring it to do anything in this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman