DRN-1515001
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as National & Provincial Building 
Society) mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr M in 1992 in connection with a 
mortgage. The policy provided Mr M with cover if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it  
recommended was suitable for Mr Ms needs?
-           Did Santander give Mr M the information he needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
M is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr M says he didnt know the PPI had been added to his account, and that he wouldnt have 
agreed to buy it. Mr M says he didn't claim on the policy when he was out of work, and he 
considers this shows he didnt know he had the PPI. Ive noted everything Mr M said. 
Santander hasnt been able to provide much documentation from the time of the sale. Thats 
not surprising given the amount of time that's passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive seen. But Santander has provided a copy of the mortgage application form that Mr M 
completed  and Ive looked carefully at that document.
The application form includes a separate section about PPI, and it was completed to show 
that Mr M wanted cover for accident, sickness and unemployment (rather than just accident 
and sickness). Mr M has said he didn't give instructions for the box to be ticked. I note that in 
the same section of the form there are handwritten notes that say 'Send 
Brochure'  and 'Sent' .
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr M and Santander 
 when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place over twenty five 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
I accept that Mr M may not have claimed on the policy when he was out of work. But I think 
its possible he'd forgotten he had the cover, rather than he didnt know about it in the first 
place.
Overall, without anything else to support what Mr M has told me, I don't think I can fairly and 
reasonably say that Santander didn't make him aware of the PPI and that it was optional. On 
balance I think it's likely that Mr M chose to take out the policy - although I can understand 
why he may no longer remember this. 
Santander accepts that it Mr M to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable 
for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible for cover, given the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr M says he was entitled to discretionary sick pay from his employer if he couldnt 
work because of sickness or accident, and that his family would've helped him cover 
his repayments if things went wrong. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to 
Mr M's employer benefits, and would've meant he could use those benefits to pay for 
other expenses. And it would've meant he didn't need to rely on his family. So I think 
Mr M would have had some use for the policy, despite his existing arrangements. 
Mr Mwasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr M before 
he agreed to buy it. But Mr M took out the policy knowing he would have to pay 
something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr M would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr M wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr M would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he 
would still have taken out the policy.
Mr M has said he didn't claim on the policy while he had a period of time out of work. Mr M 
may want to consider contacting Santander, to see whether it's possible to make a 
retrospective claim on the policy.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman