DRN-2426908
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about a claim they made under their home insurance policy 
with AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited. They are unhappy that the costs and 
excess associated with the claim was not recovered from the neighbours insurer, because 
the source of the damage originated in their neighbours home. They feel they are being 
treated unfairly and being penalised for something wholly beyond their control.
What happened
In the spring of 2020 Mr R contacted AA to make a claim for water damage along a party 
wall with one of their neighbours. The claim was accepted and investigations into the cause 
established there was a leak on the other side of the party wall, which as the cavity was 
broached, was allowing water to track up the wall and soak through into Mr and Mrs Rs 
home. It appears from the evidence provided, the leak was coming from a pipe that was 
concealed from view beneath the neighbours floor.
The neighbour was notified, and the leak was repaired. At Mr and Mrs Rs request the claim 
was settled on a cash basis. This was based on the cost of the repairs, less the £500 policy 
excess. 
AA contacted the neighbours insurer to discuss recovery of its costs and Mr and Mrs Rs 
excess. However, the other insurer was not satisfied there had been any negligence on the 
part of its policyholder and so it declined the request. As such, AA looked at the likelihood of 
being able to recover the costs through legal action. It decided it had a limited chance of 
success and it was unlikely to be able to claim the costs of the action, given the claim would 
be dealt with by the small claims court. It decided not to pursue legal action.
Mr and Mrs R wasnt happy about AAs decision as the deduction of the excess left them 
without enough money to cover the necessary repairs. Also, they thought the claim was 
likely to increase their insurance premium in the future. They also thought that the neighbour 
must have known about the leak. This was because there had been a condensation/damp 
problem in their porch since their purchase of the property and since the leak had been 
repaired this problem had reduced significantly. Also, the removal of plaster on their side of 
the wall indicated a previous owner had attempted to waterproof the wall. On that basis Mr 
and Mrs R said Events over recent days and weeks lead us to the conclusion that escapes 
of water from No 4 have been either recurring or continuous to a greater or lesser degree for 
many years and it is inconceivable that the occupants were unaware of such persistent and 
long standing problems. 
AA responded to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and confirmed it had considered whether the 
costs could be recovered. However, it would not be possible to take legal action unless 
negligence on the part of the neighbour could be proved. It didnt think recovery action 
through the courts was likely to succeed and the costs of such action wouldnt be 
recoverable. As such, it said that it would continue to speak to the other insurer about 
recovery, but it would not be taking legal action if the other insurer didnt agree to pay the 
cost of the claim.  Mr and Mrs R wasnt satisfied with AAs response and referred their 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs R said that they couldnt accept that it was fair or reasonable for them to 
be penalised for the actions or inactions of a neighbour. Nor did they think that any further 
evidence of negligence on the part of the neighbour could possibly be required. They asked 
that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is a requirement under Mr and Mrs Rs policy that the policyholder pays the first pre-
determined amount of any claim  the excess. It is standard across the insurance industry.
Whilst it may sometimes be possible for that excess to be recovered from the party 
responsible for the damage occurring (or that partys insurer), the decision about whether to 
attempt to do so is a commercial decision on the part of the insurer. The policyholder doesnt 
have a right under the policy terms to insist the insurer attempts recovery. An insurers 
decision about whether to attempt recovery, or not, is not one that we would usually interfere 
with. 
In this case AA has explained why it decided not to pursue recovery through the courts  it 
didnt think if it did it would succeed. This decision was based on the fact that it didnt think it 
could prove there had been negligence on the part of Mr and Mrs Rs neighbour. In this case 
there is no clear evidence the neighbour knew about the leak until they were told about it 
after AAs investigations. So, despite Mr and Mrs Rs opinion being contrary on that point, 
AAs decision that it couldnt prove negligence doesnt appear to be unreasonable.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Rs concerns about recovery not happening  that they need to 
find the amount of the excess to complete the repairs and that the claim is likely to increase 
their insurance premiums going forward. However, this is how insurance policies work and 
I cant say that AA has acted unreasonably.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 January 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman