DRN-2110672
The complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr M bought the policy when he took out a loan in 2000. The loan included an amount to pay 
for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for him  so Ill explain why.
Mr M says that he wasnt told that the PPI was optional  and that it was required in order for 
him to get the loan. And he needed the loan to buy a car for travelling to work. 
I wasnt there at the time, so I cant know what was said to Mr M  but Nationwide has 
provided a copy of his loan agreement which Ive reviewed. On this agreement, I can see 
that the PPI was clearly set out as an optional product  the total cost, interest, and monthly 
amount Mr M would pay for the PPI policy were set out in a separate column titled optional 
credit insurance. And Mr M has signed this agreement, agreeing to the information on it. So, 
I think that Nationwide made it clear that the PPI was optional, and that he chose to take it. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him  but it did need to give Mr M enough information for him to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible that some of the information Nationwide gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been useful to him. So, I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it. 
And the cost of the policy was shown  including the amount of the premium, the interest 
payable on the premium and the total cost. So, I think Mr M would have understood how 
much the PPI would cost if he kept the policy for its full term. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments, including what hes said about a different business 
refunding him for mis-sold PPI. Mr M says that as his circumstances were the same, 
Nationwide should also refund him. But this point doesnt change my conclusion.
I dont know why the other business upheld his complaint  each complaint is looked at 
individually  and as Ive said above, I havent found a reason to uphold this complaint.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy 
Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who
make the rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for
businesses to follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses
will sometimes need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain
PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or
agreements taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the
information Ive seen, Mr Ms loan doesnt fit into these dates - and so I dont think the rules 
apply to this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman