DRN-2436021
The complaint
Mr E complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to him irresponsibly.
Mr E is represented by a third party.
What happened
Lending Stream lent to Mr E nine times between June 2018 and July 2019. Mr E complained 
to it and received a final response letter from Lending Stream which did not agree with his 
complaint. Mr E referred his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Lending Stream ought to 
put things right in relation to the last three loans - Loans 7 to 9   which were approved on 
16, 17 and 19 July 2019. Mr Es representative informed Mr E of this and no further 
comment has been received from Mr E or his representative since then. Lending Stream has 
not replied. The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr E could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr E could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
I have looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mr E, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which it should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Lending Stream ought to have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Es case, I think that this point was reached by Loan 7 
approved on 16 July 2019. I say this because:
Mr E had been approved for a loan a few days earlier as well as the month before, 
and then on 16 July 2019 he was approved for another (Loan 7) when several loans 
remained outstanding to Lending Stream. And the two following (Loans 8 and 9) 
were approved within days further adding to Mr Es indebtedness. So, Lending 
Stream ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr E was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Es indebtedness was increasing unsustainably; and
Mr E wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Lending Stream. The 
final loan approved for him, a few days later, on 19 July 2019 was for £200 when 
many of his other loans had been much smaller than that. So it was a big increase in 
his requested amount. And it was taken out thirteen months after Mr Es first. His 
monthly repayments from the beginning of 2019 had increased exponentially from 
about £38 a month to just under £212 as he had several Lending Stream loans 
outstanding by the time the last loan was approved. So, I think that Mr E had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Lending Stream over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr E lost out because Lending Stream continued to provide borrowing from 
Loan 7 (approved 16 July 2019) onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Es indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period; and
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Es 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about Loans 7 to 9 and Lending Stream should put things 
right for Mr E.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr E from Loan 7 on 16 July 2019, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, 
answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr E may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how it would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr E in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr E would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Es liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Lending Stream ought to do as follows: 
refund all interest and charges paid on the loans approved on 16, 17 and 19 July 
2019  Loans 7 to 9 inclusive; and
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from Loan 7 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about Loans 7 to 9 should be removed from 
Mr Es credit file.
If Mr E still owes Lending Stream any of the principal balance he borrowed on loans 7 to 9, 
instead of the above, Lending Stream should remove all the interest and charges applied to 
the outstanding balance. It should then re-work the account as if all payments made by Mr E 
went to towards the principal. But importantly, Lending Stream needs to ensure that Mr E 
doesnt repay more than the principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mr E hasnt repaid the principal he borrowed Lending Stream can deduct 
this from the remainder of the redress. If, Mr E has already paid enough to repay the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple* interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement
And if Lending Stream no longer owns the debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the 
amount owed, then it should buy it back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled to make any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr E.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. The tax needs 
to be deducted before any set-off is done. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint in part and direct that Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Lending Stream, does as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman