DRN-2267959
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M says he moved home but accepts he didnt update Barclays with the new address. He 
says he was unaware that one of his Barclays Accounts was overdrawn and didnt receive 
the letters Barclays sent him about the debt. Mr M says he was unaware a default had been 
registered on his credit file and that Barclays could have contacted him by other means. He 
says he had an exemplary credit file and Barclays actions will cause him difficulties in re-
mortgaging. Mr M says his wife was unwell and Barclays should consider that and the 
present difficult circumstances and remove the default.
Barclays says its not made a mistake and sent Mr M a number of letters in 2019 and 2020 
about the debt and the default. It says it has acted in line with account terms and conditions 
and is obliged to send default and regulatory letters by post rather than by other methods. It 
also says Mr M is responsible for updating it with a new address and could have seen the 
debt when accessing online banking. Barclays says it no longer offsets debts from money in 
other accounts.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions and it was Mr Ms 
responsibility to update his address. The investigator didnt think in those circumstances 
Barclays had made a mistake.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says Barclays ought to show compassion and take into 
account his account management for other accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at Barclays records and Im satisfied Mr Ms account was overdrawn. I can see 
that Barclays wrote to Mr M about the debt on numerous occasions but without response. I 
appreciate Mr M had moved address, but I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for that as 
Mr M accepts, he didnt tell it about that address change. So, I dont think Barclays made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by eventually registering a default on Mr Ms credit file as I dont 
think the debt had been repaid.
I appreciate Mr M says Barclays could have tried to contact him by other means. But Im 
satisfied that regulatory notices about defaults should be sent in this way and that Mr M was 
responsible for his account which includes the debt and making sure his address was 
updated. I also think that if Mr M had used online banking, he could have seen that the 
account was overdrawn.
Overall, I appreciate Mr M had changed address and didnt receive his mail and was dealing 
with his wifes ill health. But I cant fairly conclude Barclays has made a mistake or acted 
unfairly by registering a default. For those reasons I cant fairly order Barclays to remove the 
default and its not our role to order it show compassion as Mr M would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman