DRN-4172741
The complaint
Ms H and Ms H have complained Astrenska Insurance Limited trading as Collinson 
Insurance declined a claim for cancellation, they made under their travel insurance policy. 
They have also complained about delays in providing them with an answer.
Any reference to Astrenska includes its agents. Additionally whilst the policy covered both 
Ms H and two others, I have only referred to Ms H below as she claimed under the policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. In summary Ms H was due to go on holiday but was admitted to hospital two days 
before her flight. Some hours after her admission to hospital she purchased the policy under 
which she subsequently claimed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms H appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms H was in hospital when she took out travel insurance for herself and others. I 
accept at that time she didnt know whether she would be admitted. Nevertheless she 
was unwell and in hospital. She was subsequently admitted. The policy she 
purchased doesnt automatically cover pre-existing medical conditions. It specifically 
states that there is no cover for any reason you know about when buying the 
policy that may cause you to make a claim. In the circumstances I dont find that 
Astrenska treated Ms H unfairly or unreasonably in declining her claim as she was in 
hospital with the condition she ultimately claimed for when she purchased the policy. 
I understand that Ms H wasnt immediately admitted to a hospital ward  but I dont 
find that this makes any difference. This is because Ms H was in hospital with the 
condition she claimed for when she took out the policy  as explained above. 
Its clear that the matter has been frustrating for Ms H and she didnt get an answer 
from Astrenska as quickly as she might have. However Ive looked carefully at the 
circumstances and I can see that Astrenska was waiting for a hospital letter and had 
requested this several times. Once in receipt of the letter it was able to respond 
expediently to Ms H. I appreciate that Ms H had difficulty obtaining the information 
requested from the NHS  but I cant hold Astrenska responsible for this.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms H. She was due to go on an expensive holiday and wasnt 
able to travel though no fault of her own. I understand the other Ms H and a child did 
travel and were covered by the policy. But I dont find Astrenska treated Ms H unfairly 
as her claim isnt covered by the policy she purchased for the reasons Ive set out. It 
follows that I dont require Astrenska to make any payment to Ms H or to refund the 
policy premium paid, as although the claim was not accepted, the policy was in force 
and cover was provided.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman