DRN-3740368
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the service received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
under his home emergency policy.
For ease of reference, the term Aviva includes its agents, representatives and 
contractors.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr E reported to Aviva a potential leak at his property, as water staining had
appeared on his kitchen ceiling. Aviva arranged for an engineer to attend five days later. 
This appointment, as well as a second appointment, were missed.
When an engineer did attend to mend a leak under the bath, he damaged the bath and side
panel. Aviva agreed to rectify the damage and visited Mr E to review the damage. It said it
couldnt reinstate the bath and side panel until damage to the floor was repaired and this
wasnt covered under the policy. Aviva offered a cash settlement of just under £930 for
reinstatement of the bath, but Mr E rejected this as he wanted Avivas engineers to do the
work. He therefore referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint, noting that Aviva had accepted that its
representative had caused damage. It was our investigators view that in assessing damage
in such circumstances, it wasnt unusual to offer a cash settlement, as well as to offer to do
the repairs. He said that without further evidence, he couldnt conclude that the settlement
figure of just under £930 was unfair. He noted that the reason work hadnt been done was
due to damage to the floor.
Our investigator noted that it wasnt clear what was inspected when Avivas representative
visited to assess the damage, however he accepted there may have been some floor 
damage if the kitchen ceiling was showing signs of a leak. He said he couldnt then conclude 
that Aviva had done anything wrong by asking for the floor to be repaired before agreeing to 
repair the bath. He agreed with Aviva that it may be worth Mr E approaching his building 
insurers.
Our investigator did think that Mr E had been let down by missed appointments and damage
to the bath, however he considered that the compensation of £150 already offered was in
line with the services approach. He stated that Mr E should have the floor repaired, either
privately or through his building insurance policy, as he didnt consider that it was unfair for
Aviva to expect this to be done before it carried out reinstatement work. He then expected
Aviva to urgently complete the repair work to the bath and panel to a satisfactory standard.
The work has since been completed. Mr E was however unhappy with the outcome of his 
complaint and considered that compensation of £150 was inadequate in view of the extent of 
the trouble and upset caused. The matter was therefore referred to me to reach a decision in 
my role as Ombudsman.
I then issued a provisional decision for this complaint in September 2022 and explained why 
I was minded to uphold Mr Es complaint as follows; -
The key issue to determine in this case is whether Aviva applied the terms and conditions of
its policy and treated Mr E in a fair and reasonable manner. To be clear, what Im 
considering is a complaint against Aviva in relation to its home insurance policy and not a
complaint regarding the service provided or delays experienced under any building
insurance policy. Ive concluded that on balance, Aviva didnt act fairly and reasonably in all
respects under its home emergency policy. Ill explain why.
The purpose of home emergency cover is to cover attendance and action in response to
certain emergencies that may occur in the home. Mr Es emergency home insurance policy
provided cover for emergencies relating to internal plumbing, including leaking pipes. Aviva
duly responded to an emergency in this case.
Mr E provided a detailed account of the problems and communication issues which hed
experienced. Following missed appointments by Aviva, he said the third plumber who
attended had found a small leak under the bath and thought that hed managed to stop it. In
doing so however, Mr E said that the plumber had cracked the bath rim, shattered the
plastic side panel and damaged the lower panel board. He explained that the bath was
built-in with vanity units and large tiles.
Between September and November 2021, Mr E said that he had numerous interactions with
Aviva. He said that neither the plumber nor a surveyor who attended in September 2021
reported any floor damage. He said floor damage was first mentioned following a further
survey, but the side panel hadnt been removed during this inspection. He said that the
settlement offer had been derisorily low as all surveyors indicated the complexity of the job,
given the built-in nature of the bath. He wanted the bath to be reinstated to place him back in
the position he would have been in before the damage. Mr E also said that Aviva had
reneged on its agreement to make good the damage because the floor was damaged and
unstable and that it was: not comfortable working with the floor in that condition.
Mr E felt that the compensation offered was doubly insulting as now their surveyor is saying
its a worse situation and the offer is the same. He said that all the works were completed in
the summer of 2022, however no floor damage was revealed. He said that £100 had
originally been paid by Aviva for non-attendance at two emergency call outs and that £150
had then been offered for subsequent service issues and damage to the bath. As well as full
reinstatement of his bath and bathroom, Mr E was looking to receive compensation for what
he referred to as months of disruption, wasted time, frustration, anxiety, and anger that Aviva
had reneged on agreements as well as lack of communication. Mr E felt that two insurers
had played pass the parcel and treated their customer as an inconvenience.
Aviva accepted that it failed to attend appointments to assess the water leak. It also agreed
that its representative had caused damage to the bath and panel during his investigation in
trying to find out the root cause of the leak. However, it didnt consider that it was liable for
the damaged floor under the bath. It said it could arrange for its contractor to carry out the
necessary work to the bath, however it was unable to do so until Mr E had repaired the
damaged floor. It offered to pay just under £930 as a final cash settlement in order for you to
source your own external contractors to carry the necessary work. It also stated that if the
works carried out by Mr Es own contractor exceeded £930, Mr E could provide an invoice so
that it could be assessed for possible reimbursement. It also offered compensation of £150
for the inconvenience caused.
Ive noted that the work was finally completed around a year after the original emergency
was reported by Mr E. I do not therefore intend to address the part of the complaint in which
Mr E requests reinstatement rather than payment of a sum in settlement. I do however
address the part of Mr Es complaint which relates to service issues and the level ofcompensation offered by Aviva for distress and inconvenience caused.
Aviva accepted that there had been initial service failures in August 2021 and that its
representatives had failed to keep appointments. As this was an emergency event which
Aviva actioned under the home emergency policy, Im satisfied that this initial delay was
unfair and unreasonable and would have caused additional distress and inconvenience to Mr
E in an already stressful situation.
Aviva doesnt dispute that its representative caused damage to the bath and bath panel 
whilst repairing the leak and that this was unfair and unreasonable. Such damage will have 
caused frustration and inconvenience. The subsequent events will have caused even greater
inconvenience. It appears that Aviva took the view that it was unable to make good the
damage to the bath due to the need for damage to the floor to be remedied first. Whilst I
note the view that signs of a leak on the kitchen ceiling may have indicated floor damage
above, no such damage is demonstrated by the available photographic evidence.
On a provisional basis, I accept Mr Es submission that the floor wasnt physically inspected
to support Avivas view that it was damaged. In the absence of contrary evidence, I also
provisionally conclude that no floor damage was revealed when works were finally
completed. I therefore provisionally conclude that it wasnt fair or reasonable for Aviva to
have delayed work to await floor repairs. Whilst I appreciate that Mr E was still able to use
the bath during this period, I nevertheless consider that this delay will have caused additional
stress and will have led to considerable time and effort being wasted by Mr E in trying to
achieve resolution of a problem caused by Aviva.
My provisional conclusion is that the compensation offered by Aviva doesnt provide a fair 
and reasonable resolution to the matter. Its reasonable to consider that Mr E experienced
distress and inconvenience during the initial period when Avivas representatives didnt
attend emergency appointments and when damage was caused by its representative.
Secondly, its reasonable to consider that Mr E experienced distress and inconvenience due
to delays caused by Aviva reaching the flawed view that it couldnt progress repair works.
The impact of these service issues will have lasted over many months. In all the 
circumstances, I consider that an award of compensation in the sum of £600 rather than
£150 would be appropriate in this case.
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold Mr Es complaint and to require Aviva
Insurance Limited to pay £600 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Aviva and Mr E if they had any further comments or 
evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has confirmed that it has nothing further to add. 
Mr E has made further submissions as follows. He felt that this was: -yet another instance 
where a large corporate organisation had been able to extract payments for years and then 
fail to meet its obligations when the service is required. He also felt that it was a case of 
grinding down a customers will to fight back.
Mr E did however recognise a positive aspect of the outcome and that the provisional 
decision upheld the three main counts of my year-long complaint. He didnt considerhowever that the proposed compensation would have any effect on Avivas future behaviour. 
Mr E concluded by saying that he wished to put the frustrating affair behind him and he was 
prepared to accept the provisional findings and award.
I note the further submission made by Mr E. In all the circumstances however, Ive 
concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the 
matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Es complaint and to require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to pay £600 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman