DRN-3591174
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt credit two payments he made 
to his current account.
What happened
On 27 July 2021 Mr A sent a payment of £800 from his current account with a different bank, 
who Ill refer to as H, to his Barclays account. And on 31 October 2021, Mr A made a second 
transfer but this time for £100. Neither of these payments were credited to Mr As Barclays 
account.
Mr A got in touch with Barclays and found out that his account had been closed back in 
2014. And given the length of time the account had been closed, his sort code and account 
number had now been reallocated to a different customer. 
Barclays said that it had attempted to recover the £900 sent to this account however it 
wasnt able to get the funds back because the beneficiary didnt agree and there was a block 
on the account. 
In Barclays final response letter to Mr A it upheld his complaint in part and paid him £200. It 
said it was sorry for providing him with incorrect information regarding the reason his 
account closed. However, it didnt think it had done anything wrong in not being able to 
recover the £900.
Our Investigator looked into Mr As complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They thought that 
Barclays had done enough to try and recover the funds sent to the account. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the Investigators view, and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A says that he wasnt aware his Barclays current account had been closed. I have seen 
evidence to suggest that the closure happened during a phone call, and I can see that a 
closing statement was produced for Mr A to view. Based on everything Ive seen, I think it 
likely Mr A was aware at the time that his account had been closed. But I can understand 
why he may no longer remember this given the length of time that has passed since the 
closure.
Barclays has since reallocated Mr As previous account details to a new customer  this is 
fairly standard practice, and I dont find that it was wrong of Barclays to have done this. 
There was no responsibility on Barclays to have let Mr A know that it had reallocated the 
details. 
Where a firm is notified that funds have been sent to a wrong account, the firm needs to take 
reasonable steps to try and recover the money. 
Barclays was notified by H in December 2021 that Mr A had incorrectly transferred funds to 
his old account. Barclays said that when it was contacted by H to notify it of the mistake, 
there was a block on the account which meant that the funds couldnt be recovered. I have 
also seen evidence to show that the full amount wasnt available in that account to return. 
In January 2022, Barclays was able to speak to the recipient of the funds but wasnt able to 
recover the funds then either. And again, based on the information Ive seen, I dont think the 
funds were in the account to recover at this time either.
Based on everything Ive seen; I think Barclays has taken reasonable steps to try and 
recover the funds. So, I cant fairly say Barclays did anything wrong, and I wont be asking it 
to return the payments to Mr A.
I can see that Barclays gave Mr A some incorrect information about why the account closed 
 it has paid Mr A £200 to compensate him for this. Mr A hasnt raised this as a complaint 
point, but for completeness, based on what Ive seen, I think this offer is a fair one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman