DRN-2915679
The complaint
Ms Z complains about the behaviour of a representative of Quilter Mortgage Planning 
Limited (Quilter).
What happened
In August 2020, Ms Z had an offer on a property accepted. There were several other offers.
The estate agent recommended that she spoke to the local representative of Quilter (whose 
office was in the same building) about her mortgage requirements. She worked in financial 
services but wanted to see what deals he could offer. She spoke to him on the phone on 12 
August 2020.
Ms Z complained. She said that Quilter said her offer on the property was accepted on the 
condition that she applied for a mortgage in house through him. If she didnt, he would call 
the estate agent and ask them to let the seller know  in which case she may lose the 
property. She said that Quilters representative was unprofessional and spoke to her in a 
bullying way  and felt there was a sense of racism and/or sexism in the way he talked to 
her.
Quilter said that their recollection of what happened was that the estate agent had told them 
that Ms Zs offer had been accepted by the seller  on the basis that it was understood that 
Ms Z would arrange her mortgage in-house and so the sale could go ahead quickly and 
efficiently. But when Quilter spoke to Ms Z, it became clear that she was looking at her 
options to get a mortgage - and she would let the estate agent know where she stood. 
Quilter said they denied the allegations and they acted with courtesy and respect throughout 
the conversation. The call wasnt recorded as it didnt go into recommendations.
Ms Z brought her complaint to us, and our investigator looked into what happened.  He 
concluded that Quilter had acted fairly. There wasnt a recording of the conversation, so he 
had to decide what was more likely than not to have happened. He could see that it was 
probably the estate agents preference to keep the mortgage in-house  so things could be 
monitored. And  sellers may prefer it that way as well. The estate agent had said that to Ms 
Z in his email on 13 August 2020. So  he could see how this was perceived as pressurising 
Ms Z into using Quilter. He didnt have any evidence to confirm that the conversation went 
as Ms Z said it did.
Ms Z asked that an ombudsman look into her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wasnt party to the conversation that took place between Quilter and Ms Z, and there isnt a 
recording of it and so I must base my decision on the probability of what likely happened.
There were several offers on the property, but Ms Zs had been accepted. The estate agent 
clearly wanted the mortgage to be arranged in-house  as that would mean they could 
monitor progress and see things through efficiently. The estate agent said to Ms Z in an 
email dated 13 August 2020 Keeping a mortgage in house does allow us to keep a close 
eye over the sale but working with your chosen financial/mortgage advisor is absolutely fine 
too. We took a statement from Quilters representative in question and he said the clients 
offer was accepted on the property which had multiple offers, and the estate agent informed 
me that the property had been to the agreed to the client as the client was willing to keep the 
mortgage in-house as the vendor took comfort in the fact that the sale would proceed 
quickly and efficiently. The client advised me that she was researching her options and I 
responded by saying that is fine but I would need to let the estate agent know, and would 
pass this information on to the estate agent accordingly
So  the version of what was said by both the estate agent and Quilters representative is 
consistent  that theyd preferred to keep the mortgage in-house so things could be tracked 
easily, and the seller also preferred this. But if Ms Z wanted to make her own arrangements 
for a mortgage, that was also acceptable  as she worked in financial services herself.
 Ms Z says that Quilters representative bullied her and stated that if she didnt arrange her 
mortgage though them, he would tell the estate agent, who would then let the seller know  
which might mean that she might lose the property.  She said to us the representative said, 
No you cant (go to another broker). So  this differs from Quilters version of events to the 
extent that Ms Z says that Quilter went further  to say she could lose the property if she 
didnt go through them for her mortgage. This is a small but significant difference. But on this 
 I must decide on the balance of probabilities  as I wasnt party to the call. And I think that 
its quite likely that Ms Z did feel pressurised to do what both Quilter and the estate agent 
wanted. And I can see why they said what they agreed they said. But  thats different to 
going as far as to say she would lose her purchase. Both the estate agent and Quilter said 
theyd let the seller know that the mortgage might not be arranged in-house. And it was the 
sellers preference for her to use Quilter. And so  I can see how Ms Z then felt this meant 
she might lose the purchase. But I cant say that  on the balance of probabilities - they did 
go as far as to say that. 
Ms Z also says that she felt bullied in the way she was spoken to  and there was a sense of 
racism or sexism involved. And looking at the versions of what was said, I think Quilter 
(backed up by the estate agent) were probably trying to encourage Ms Z to arrange her 
mortgage with them. I dont think that necessarily amounts to bullying.
We asked Ms Z about what was said to her to make her feel the way she did. She said 
Quilter wouldnt have said what they did if I was a man, or white man, or even a white 
woman...it wouldnt have happened if I was a white man. She felt there was an element of 
racism and sexism involved. But just because she felt pressurised doesnt necessarily mean 
that was the case. And so  nothing that Ms Z has said leads me to conclude that there was 
an element of racism or sexism involved.
I can see that Ms Z feels strongly about what happened. And so, she will of course be 
disappointed by my decision. But  Im not going to ask Quilter to do anymore here.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman