DRN-3722359
The complaint
F complains about difficulties and delays when completing HSBC UK Bank Plcs Safeguard 
review.
What happened
HSBC contacted the officers of F to advise it needed to complete a Safeguard review. HSBC 
has explained this process came about as a result of legal and regulatory obligations. 
Mr R, who is the treasurer for F, has told us none of the officers had online banking access 
so couldnt complete the Safeguard review online. But when Mr R contacted HSBC to ask 
about alternatives, no other options were provided. Over a period of several weeks, Mr R 
contacted HSBC on Fs behalf to try and find a way to complete the review. 
Mr R has told us he was told not to worry about completing the Safeguard review by the 
deadline, but in December 2020 HSBC removed Fs banking arrangements. Banking 
facilities were restored after Mr R contacted HSBC. Mr R spoke with multiple members of 
staff across various departments and was promised online banking credentials would be 
sent so he could complete the Safeguard review online. But, it took around a month and a 
substantial level of further contact from Mr R before the online banking details were 
provided. 
The Safeguard review form was completed online and the details confirmed over the phone 
by HSBC. 
Mr R complained on Fs behalf and HSBC issued a final response, offering £300 for the 
inconvenience caused. HSBC also apologised for delays and the service provided. Fs 
complaint was referred to us and an investigator looked at what had happened. Mr R 
explained he wanted HSBC to compensate him at his professional rate for the time spent 
dealing with the Safeguard review. Our investigator said we could only consider 
compensation for the customer which is F. The investigator said that we dont award 
compensation for representatives acting on a customers behalf. The investigator thought 
HSBCs offer was fair. 
On Fs behalf, Mr R asked to appeal so this complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware the background Ive set out above in far less detail than Mr R in his 
submissions and contained within the investigators view. I have read and considered 
everything provided by F and HSBC, as well as the investigators comments. Im aware of 
the timeline of Fs complaint and the level of contact Mr R made on its behalf. I can see Mr R 
has given a detailed commentary on the investigators background section and clarified 
where he felt the information recorded wasnt accurate. Mr R has sent in further detailed 
submissions setting out his thoughts concerning HSBCs actions and the investigators 
review. Ive taken all points made by the parties involved into account when reaching my 
decision.
Mr R has clearly spent an awful lot of time dealing with HSBC. And I dont doubt he found 
the process to be longwinded and chaotic. Its clear that Mr R was given different information 
on various occasions and that his options for completing the Safeguard review were limited 
because none of Fs officers had access to online banking. I agree with Mr R that it ought to 
have been a simple matter for HSBC to arrange to complete the Safeguard review and I can 
understand why hes complained on Fs behalf. 
Its clear that Fs officers were always willing to comply with HSBCs request to complete the 
review. I agree with Mr R that HSBC shouldnt have closed Fs banking arrangements whilst 
he was still trying to find a way forward for F. And Im satisfied the closure of Fs accounts 
did cause inconvenience. 
In his response to the investigator, Mr R said HSBC should only complete a Safeguard 
review if the circumstances of the customer (or its officers in Fs case) had changed. But 
HSBC is free to decide what safeguarding approach to take, including whether to verify if it 
retained up to date information about its customers and their representatives. I understand 
why Mr R feels the step was unnecessary, but I havent been persuaded that HSBC acted 
unfairly by requiring F to complete a Safeguard review. 
Mr R says HSBCs requirement that the Safeguard review be completed online was 
discriminatory. Its not for our service to say whether a business has broken specific laws, 
including the Equalities Act 2010, which covers discrimination. But I note that F is the 
customer in this case. And despite lengthy delays by HSBC, Mr R was able to complete the 
process online after activation details were provided. I havent seen anything that indicates 
HSBCs request the Safeguard review be completed online unfairly impacted F. 
Our powers to award compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused are limited 
when were looking at complaints from a business, organisation or charity. Again, I think its 
important to separate the customer, which is F, and its officers or representatives. The rules 
we operate under are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook and known as 
the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP). DISP is clear in explaining that we can make awards 
that cover a financial loss, pain and suffering, damage to reputation and or distress and 
inconvenience caused to a consumer. But the rules do not make any provision for awarding 
compensation to representatives acting on a complainants behalf. That means there are 
only limited circumstances where I can award compensation in relation to the distress and 
inconvenience caused to someone acting as a representative. 
Whilst I understand my decision will feel harsh to Mr R, Im satisfied he was acting on Fs 
behalf in this matter not on a personal basis. As a result, I have no powers to award 
compensation based on the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R in his own right and 
have focused on the impact to F. 
Mr R has told us he feels HSBC lied to him and deceived him over a period of around two 
months. I can see how strongly Mr R feels. Its a shame we dont have access to all the call 
recordings, but I dont doubt what hes told us about how HSBC made him feel. And its clear 
Mr R has a detailed recollection of events. As Ive said above, Im satisfied Mr R was given 
unclear, inconsistent and, at times, incorrect information by HSBC. But, I have to bring the 
focus of the complaint back to the impact of the issues raised on F. As Ive said above, the 
rules dont allow me to award compensation on the basis of the distress and inconvenience 
Mr R has told us he experienced in his own right while acting on Fs behalf. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr R as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But Im 
satisfied the £300 offer HSBC made fairly reflects the impact of the way its Safeguard review 
was completed on F. As HSBC has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances, Im not telling it to increase the award or take further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plcs offer of £300 is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman