DRN-2728505
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard after he misplaced his credit card and attempted to cancel it.
 What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I appreciate Mr A was caused some upset when he attempted to cancel his card but 
couldnt do so. Hes said this happened as when he called Barclaycards 24 hour 
helpline, a recorded message said it was closed. He was also unable to use the 
cancellation feature on Barclaycards mobile banking app,( the app) or request the 
cancellation online as he said he got error messages when he attempted this. His 
card was eventually cancelled on the following day, and a new card was ordered, as 
he was contacted by an adviser who had read his social media messages. 
It isnt clear what number Mr A used to try and cancel his card or why he couldnt 
speak to someone on Barclaycards 24 hour helpline. But in any event, Mr A should 
reasonably have been able to quickly cancel his card, and this doesnt appear to 
have been the case. So, I think its right Barclaycard acknowledged the upset he 
experienced due to the delay. Its also fortunate no unauthorised transactions took 
place, while his card remained active.
I appreciate Mr A would like more information about why he couldnt cancel his card 
straight away and the reason for the error message he received on the app. 
However, as Barclaycard have accepted responsibility for the delay and said the 
problem with the app was due to a technical issue, I think they have reasonably 
addressed this concern.
Mr A has told us that on the day after his credit card was cancelled, he checked the 
app and noticed it said hed exceeded his credit limit and further transactions may be 
declined. He then attempted to make a payment to clear the outstanding balance 
using the app, but he was unable to do so. Barclaycard have said the reason this 
happened was because when his card was cancelled, they automatically set 
everything on the app to show as nil apart from the balance. However, all of his 
information was restored, once his new card was generated and an update had taken 
place. This was a process change to the app and his credit limit was never actually 
removed. Theyve also explained Mr A would have been able to resume making 
payments using the app, once his next statement had been generated. I think 
Barclaycard have given a reasonable explanation for what happened. However, its 
also clear the incorrect information displayed on the app, caused Mr A some upset 
and confusion. Mr As inability to make a payment using the app, also unfortunately 
added to this worry.
Ive seen that it unfortunately took a number of hours for Barclaycard to provide Mr A 
with an explanation as to what had happened and when the app would be updated. I 
also appreciate he couldnt move on from this issue, until hed actually seen that his 
information had been restored on the app. Unfortunately, this couldnt happen 
straight away, as Mr As replacement card was ordered at the weekend and updates 
of this nature only take place during week nights. I also accept Barclaycards 
explanation that this delay was unavoidable, as they couldnt update the information 
on the app any faster.
I understand Mr As frustration that the Barclaycard adviser didnt warn him of the 
changes that could happen to the app due to cancelling and ordering a new card. If 
they had done this, it would have reduced the shock and worry he experienced when 
he checked the app on the following day and noticed the changes. This would have 
been particularly helpful, given Mr A had already explained hed experienced issues 
with the app, when trying to cancel his card. 
I also know Mr A was worried about any impact to his credit file and the possibility of 
his employer seeing that his credit limit had been removed, as part of a credit check. 
However, as I havent been provided with any evidence that suggests information 
was shared with the credit reference agencies in relation to this issue, and because 
Mr As credit limit was never actually reduced, Im satisfied his credit file and 
therefore his employment wasnt impacted.
Barclaycard have offered Mr A £50 compensation to say sorry for the upset they 
caused him. Under the circumstances, I think this is a fair way for them to resolve the 
complaint, as although their actions caused Mr A some worry and upset, the 
problems he experienced were resolved within a few days and there were no long 
lasting consequences.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard have already fairly resolved this complaint. I require them to pay Mr A £50 
compensation if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman