DRN-3807336
The complaint
Ms G has complained about her home insurer Ageas Insurance Limited in respect of repairs 
it undertook following a claim she made for damage caused by a water leak.
What happened
There was a leak from the loft in Ms G home, which is a bungalow, in January 2021. The 
property was stripped and dried by the end of February 2021. Due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, reinstatement work did not begin until June 2021 and Ms G became unhappy with 
what was being done. Work stopped and a surveyor was appointed to determine what work 
remained and Ageas calculated what that work would cost, as it intended to settle for the 
work in cash. Whilst the surveyor completed his assessment in July 2021, no offer of 
settlement was made until January 2022. 
Ageas offered £888.78 in settlement. Ms G felt that wasnt enough and Ageas hadnt told her 
exactly what it was meant to cover. It transpired the offer did not include anything for 
reinstating the loft and loft ladder. Ms G had a quote for that of £588. Ageas said it would 
pay £144, being half of the cost stated in that quote for loft boarding, but nothing else. It said 
whilst it had initially considered liability for the loft ladder, it didnt think this had been 
damaged by the leak or its contractors. Ageas noted that in October 2021 it had offered 
£400 compensation for upset, and said it would pay a further £50 in that respect. Ms G said 
she wanted a total of £1,538 for the work  being Ageas offer, plus the total of the loft and 
ladder costs, and £70 for a light, plus compensation totalling £1,000.    
Our Investigator felt that Ageas cash and compensation offers were fair and reasonable. 
She didnt recommend that it do anything more. As Ms G remained unhappy, the complaint 
was passed to me for consideration. I felt the complaint should be upheld. My provisional 
findings were:
I think Ageas should be paying the full cost for the loft reinstatement, although not the 
ladder or light, plus interest and VAT on all settlement sums and further compensation. Ill 
explain below and both parties will have chance to reply before I make a final decision. 
Light
Ms Gs quote gives her the option of adding a light in her loft. But shes said she isnt asking 
Ageas for that  as there wasnt a light there before. Rather she said shes paid £70 for lights 
and two smoke detectors to be fitted. Im not going to make Ageas pay this  I can see that 
the sum of £888.78 includes the cost of refitting the lights and a smoke detector in the 
property, which were identified as necessary/outstanding by the surveyor.  
Ladder
I accept that as of May 2022 Ageas contractor has disputed liability for the ladder  both 
under the claim and as a matter of damage by Ageas operatives. But in February 2021 
Ageas told Ms G that it would assess the ladder and, if it was felt to have been damaged by 
the leak, include it within the repairs. Notes compiled by that contractor in July 2021 show 
that removal and refitting of the ladder was factored into the programme of work. So I think 
Ageas took on liability for the ladder and it would be unreasonable to let it revoke that now, 
so late in the day. But Ms Gs quote confirms her ladder is safe to use. And I dont see that 
her contractor charged her anything for making it safe. So Im not going to make Ageas pay 
Ms G for a new ladder and the amendment work to the loft hatch necessary to accommodate 
that. That work is detailed on the quote as totalling £300.00 including VAT (£240 for the new 
ladder and amendments, plus £60.00 for removing the existing ladder). 
Loft
The boarding in the loft was damaged by the leak, and was stripped out, according to Ageas 
notes. But the reinstatement scope didnt detail any work to be completed in the loft. Ms G 
presented a scope which included a cost of £288 for some reboarding. But Ageas contractor 
said that sum seemed like too much as only some of the loft was boarded. So Ageas said it 
would pay half of the stated cost. Im please Ageas looked to offer something for this. But the 
work should never have been overlooked in the first place. And what Ageas and its 
contractor seem to have further overlooked is that Ms Gs quote does include the area this 
cost applies to. The area is given as only 6 metres squared. The whole loft area was detailed 
on the original scope by Ageas contractor as being about 56 metres squared. So an area of 
6 metre squared doesnt seem that much to me. Indeed it seems to me like the sort of size 
one might find around a loft hatch  which is what Ms G seems to have had before the leak. 
The total cost for this work is £240, plus £48 VAT. Im going to require Ageas to pay Ms G 
£240 plus interest* from the date of the quote, 14 March 2022, until settlement is made. 
If Ms G gets the work done and shows Ageas VAT is due, Ageas will have to make a further 
payment to her for VAT. Its maximum liability in that respect will be the VAT sum due 
against the settlement sum (£240, plus interest*). Ms G will have to show it the related work 
was done and that VAT is due. Ageas will then have to pay Ms Gs VAT cost up to its 
maximum liability. It should pay that within one month of receiving proof from Ms G that VAT 
is due. If it pays it later than this, then it will have to add and pay interest on the VAT sum 
due from the date of the invoice until settlement is made.   
Ageas settlement sum
Ageas had the outstanding work necessary determined and costed in July 2021. But no offer 
was made to Ms G until January 2022. The sum was flawed as it didnt include the loft 
reinstatement work .The sum also did not include VAT and was not paid to Ms G. Ageas 
should pay this sum to Ms G now, plus interest* from the date of the rework scope, 
29 July 2021, until settlement is made. 
Ageas should also have advised Ms G when the offer was made that it would pay her VAT 
once she had the work done and VAT became due. But it didnt. So, similar to the loft costs 
above, Ageas will have to make a further payment to her for VAT. Its maximum liability in 
that respect will be the VAT sum due against the settlement sum of £888.78, plus interest*. 
Ms G will have to show it the related work was done and that VAT is due. Ageas will have to 
pay Ms Gs VAT cost up to its maximum liability. It should pay that within one month of 
receiving proof from Ms G that VAT is due. If it pays it later than this then it will have to add 
and pay interest on the VAT sum due from the date of the invoice until settlement is made.
But I think the extent of the sum, and the work it covered, is otherwise reasonable. It seems 
to include all the work detailed as necessary by the surveyor in July 2021. And I havent 
seen anything from Ms G which makes me think any other work is outstanding or not 
accounted for.  
CompensationI understand that work was initially delayed at Ms Gs request due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
And it is clear that once work started relations between Ms G and Ageass contractors 
became strained. I cant know what happened when workers were at Ms Gs home  but 
clearly there was an element of poor work completed which I can understand would be 
frustrating for Ms G. And Ageas hasnt given any reasoning for its so delayed cash 
settlement offer being made. That delay has caused Ms G to be without any recourse to 
reinstate her home for many months, including over winter. I think a total of £750 
compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
Ms G said she was unsure why I said the ladder could still be used and how I had 
determined the area for boarding. But she didnt object to my findings. Ageas said it 
accepted them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure Ms G that my findings were based on the evidence provided. The quote she 
sent for repair said the existing ladder was safe to use if she wanted to do so and also 
detailed the area of boarding.
 
Having reviewed the complaint, and the responses from the parties, Im satisfied by the 
outcome explained provisionally. My provisional findings, along with my comment here, are 
now the findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require Ageas to pay Ms G:
a) £248.00 plus interest* from 14 March 2022 until settlement is made.
b) £888.78 plus interest* from 29 July 2021 until settlement is made.
c) £750 compensation.
I also require Ageas to calculate the VAT sum due on the respective totals for a) and b) 
above. This will give its maximum liability amount for VAT costs on each. When Ms G gets 
work done and submits invoices showing VAT is due, Ageas will have to pay her VAT costs 
up to its maximum liability figure. It will have to pay Ms G within one month of receipt of 
invoices, or interest will have to be added and paid from the date of the invoices until 
settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Ageas to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman