DRN-1080017
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2009 alongside a loan. Ms R says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
Background
Ms R took out a loan in 2009 for a fixed term of 84 months. At the same time she was sold 
PPI. This policy covered Ms R if she was off work through an accident or sickness or if she 
lost her job. The policy would have cost her £92.69 for 84 months. On a successful claim it 
would have paid out for up to 12 months if she lost her job and for the remaining term of the 
loan if she made a successful claim for accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that he didnt think the 
policy had been mis-sold. But he also said that Lloyds got a high level of commission and 
profit share. Lloyds had offered to pay back the amount of commission that was above 50%, 
and he thought that was fair. Ms R disagreed with this view and asked that her matter be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Rs case.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms R but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think Lloyds made it clear that Ms R didnt have to take out the PPI, and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember this after so 
long. I say this because Lloyds has been able to provide a copy of the personal 
summary and recommendation which confirms you told me that you would have no 
way to meet your loan commitment if you became unemployed, suffered an accident 
or sickness. it also sets out the recommendation reasons. I have also seen a copy 
of the loan agreement Ms R signed at the time. At the bottom of the paperwork is a 
section about the PPI. Ms R has ticked to choose the PPI. It sets out the cost of the 
policy and states that the PPI is optional. Ms R has signed and dated this part of the 
form separately. So I think overall Ms R more likely had a choice and chose to take 
out the policy.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms R so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because Ms R was eligible for the cover. She didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions or any unusual employment circumstances, so I dont think its 
likely she would have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. Looking at the paperwork she also seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Lloyds has provided a copy of a loan protection eligibility and suitability answers 
form completed from the time of the sale. This form indicates that Ms R said she had 
no means that she would want to use to meet her loan commitment if she became 
unemployed, suffered an accident or sickness. Ms R has told us she didnt need the policy which was surplus to requirements. She says she was entitled to generous 
sick pay from work  six months full pay, followed by six months half sick pay. But 
this policy would have paid out for longer than her sick pay would have lasted and in 
addition to it. So I still think it was suitable for her and could have been useful of she 
fell into financial difficulty.
Ms R has said the costs and the benefits werent clear. I think the costs of the policy 
were set out on the agreement but its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms R 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But as I have explained I think its 
likely she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms R.
 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms R because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms R about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
 
Ive thought about everything Ms R has said. But these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms R.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms R any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman