DRN-3436743
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P complain that Covea Insurance plc has unfairly handled a claim made on their 
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known and understood by both Mrs and Mr P and 
Covea. So Ive only summarised whats happened below. 
Mrs and Mr P discovered water ingress under the suspended floor of their property in 
February 2018. Initially they believed the water was likely entering from their neighbours 
property and they registered a claim with Covea for the damage. A repair was made to the 
neighbouring property but this didnt resolve the issue and water continued to ingress into 
Mrs and Mr Ps property .
By July 2019, Covea had carried out a number of checks but was still unable to identify the 
source of the water. It was concluded the most likely reason was the result of ground water 
rising up through the subfloor following a change in water tables. 
Covea agreed to instal a damp proof slurry which would ease future water ingress, but it said 
it couldnt guarantee that this would stop all future issues. A schedule of repair was agreed 
and Coveas contractor was appointed to complete this work. Mrs and Mr P said this 
schedule of work wasnt followed. They complained to Covea about this and it was agreed, 
following the involvement of local building control, that work would be redone in line with the 
schedule.
Covea accepted its contractor failed to follow the schedule of works and in doing so, a 
significant delay was added to the repair works. It feels it has gone beyond its limit of liability 
with the claim, resolving issues that it says were not covered under the policy. But it still felt 
the errors made with the claim handling and schedule of works not being followed justified a 
compensation payment for the distress and inconvenience. It offered £3500 for this and to 
cover the costs incurred by one of the specialists (company A) appointed by Mrs and Mr P to 
identify the water leak. This was declined by Mrs and Mr P, they dont think the money 
offered is enough and have said theyve never received an invoice for the work completed by 
Company A so this gesture to pay is worthless.
Mrs and Mr P feel additional work was required as a result of the escape of water and have 
asked that Covea pay an additional £11,450. This reflects the total costs incurred for 
specialists to locate the leaks, replacement of the gas and central heating pipes and the 
replacement of the electrics in the property. It also includes an allowance of £20 per day for 
additional expenses Mrs P and Mr P have said they and their family incurred when living in 
the alternative accommodation. It also compensates them for missing milestone events in 
their own home. 
Our investigator looked at Mrs and Mr Ps complaint. He said he didnt think Covea needed 
to do any more than it had already offered. He believed it had acted fairly when considering 
the claim for the replacement pipe work and the partial rewire of electrics in the house and 
the decision not to cover this work as part of the claim was fair. 
He said Mrs and Mr P needed to demonstrate the loss claimed was a result of the escape of 
water. Based on what hed been provided, he wasnt persuaded the damage was caused as 
a result of this, so he didnt think Covea had acted unfairly when it refused to cover the cost 
of these. He also said because Mrs and Mr P made a decision to appoint their own specialist 
when they disagreed with Coveas findings, it was fair to expect this to be at their own cost. 
Covea had not asked them to do this and the policy doesnt provide cover for it.
He felt work had been completed which was not covered by the policy and Covea had been 
fair in doing this to ensure there was an effective and lasting repair. And overall the amount it 
offered for the distress and inconvenience was fair. He didnt think this needed to be 
increased to cover any additional expenses Mrs and Mr P said theyd incurred as these 
hadnt been demonstrated.
Mrs P and Mr P disagreed. 
They said theyd relied on the opinion of the plumber who had been appointed by 
Covea when told the copper pipe work needed to be replaced. They questioned why 
this opinion was being disregarded. 
The specialist appointed by Covea who produced the report on their property to 
confirm the damage, verbally said the plaster would have soaked up the water 
ingress and the electrical consumer unit would have been compromised and needed 
replacing.
Theyd been instructed by Covea to seek their own specialist report and didnt make 
a decision to contact Company A themselves.  And They only have invoices from 
Company As subcontractor so they questioned whether Covea would cover these.
The comments made about the damp proof slurry were incorrect and there is no 
betterment from this being applied.
Their claim for the additional delays of 238 days was upheld and they were offered 
£3500 but they now seek the additional money they feel owed when claiming £20 a 
day for these delays.
Our investigator asked Covea for its comments on the specialist providing verbal opinion 
when producing the report and whether any testing was carried out on the electrics. He also 
questioned whether the invoices for Company As contractor would be covered and if this 
was implied by the offer to cover Company As fees.
Covea said no testing was complete on the electrics as it was determined by its specialist 
that this wasnt needed. It also reiterated that it didnt identify that the pipe work needed 
replacing either. So it maintained this wasnt part of the claim. It reiterated that it would pay 
the costs from Company A on receipt of invoices but that it hasnt received any to date.
Our investigator said that his opinion remains unchanged so the complaint was passed to 
me for decision as Mrs and Mr P continued to disagree with the outcome reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs and Mr P 
but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
This claim continued over a fairly lengthy period of time and this means a number of things 
happened with Mrs and Mr P making comments across the timeline of events. I mean no 
disrespect when I dont cover each point in time in detail or address these one by one, I dont 
think theyd expect this to be done. But all points and information provided have been 
considered when reaching my decision.
The crux of this complaint is whether Covea has made a fair claim decision when deciding 
not to cover all of the expenses Mrs and Mr P have claimed for. And whether the amount 
offered for distress and inconvenience is fair. Ive reviewed these in turn, setting out whether 
I think the actions taken on each by Covea were fair and reasonable.
The replacement pipe work
Mrs and Mr P have questioned why Covea isnt willing to cover the cost of the replacement 
pipe work within the claim. They feel theyve provided evidence to support the pipe work was 
damaged by the escape of water and there is little to contradict this. Theyve relied on the 
plumbers report provided that says the following:
On inspection of the pipe work below the floor to the downstairs area we found a number of 
copper fittings and pipe work to be showing signs of corrosion. We believe this has been 
caused by the pipe work sitting in the water following the leak from the neighbours property
Covea has provided no commentary directly on the pipe work. Its said its report detailing the 
schedule of works is silent on the pipes as the report focuses on the damage caused and the 
works needed to repair this damage. So with it being silent on the pipe work, it demonstrates 
these were not viewed as damaged. 
Our investigator felt the pictures showed that the pipe work would not have sat in the water 
as the water level never reached the height of the joists  where the pipe work sat. Looking 
at the photos, on its face it seems unclear to me how this couldve happened, so I agree its 
unlikely this did happen. Looking at how the pipes are fitted with them sitting for the most 
part within the floor joists or between these, its unlikely these were sitting in the water at any 
point. 
Weve asked whether there is further evidence to support the opinion of the plumber that 
damage was caused by the pipes sitting in the water for a prolonged period of time. Nothing 
else has been provided.
Overall, having considered this and the other information provided, including the photos of 
the damage at the time and the layout of these pipes, Im not persuaded that Covea had 
acted unfairly with the decision its made on the claim. 
The replacement electrical works
Mrs P and Mr P have said they were verbally told by Coveas agent who inspected the 
property that the plaster would have absorbed the water and that it was likely the electrics 
were compromised. Theyve not been able to provide anything to support this and the report 
provided doesnt make any reference to it.
Covea has said it didnt carry out any tests on the electrics as it wasnt deemed necessary 
and theres been no mention of any issues with these by Mrs and Mr P after the leak was 
discovered.With this in mind, I dont think there is enough to demonstrate the electrics were 
compromised or damaged as a result of the water ingress.
I understand why Mrs and Mr P may have wanted to have these checked for peace of mind 
or indeed changed. But without anything to demonstrate they were damaged with the 
escape of water, I think Covea has made a fair claim decision not to include the cost of this 
replacement. 
Costs incurred for track and trace and other works
Covea has said it will cover the cost incurred by Mrs and Mr P as a result of Company A. 
Mrs and Mr P have said theyve not had a direct invoice from Company A but have incurred 
costs from its appointed contractor completing the work.
I think its fair to expect this to be included as a cost of Company A  by default its 
subcontractor is working for it and the cost is one and the same. So I think its fair that Covea 
cover these costs upon receipt of the invoices from Mrs and Mr P. 
I agree the damp proof slurry doesnt provide betterment  although not there previously it 
will help to ensure the repair work is effective and lasting. And as this was deemed 
necessary to reduce the risk of future water ingress damage, I think Covea acted fairly when 
including it within the schedule of works.
After the delays caused by the contractors failing to follow the schedule of works originally, it 
did redo and complete the work in line with this. So it completed these repairs as it should 
have done. But this resulted in a considerable delay and distress and inconvenience to Mrs 
and Mr P and their family.
Distress and inconvenience and expense payments 
Covea has accepted that theres been a number of issues during the handling of this claim 
which have delayed its progression and caused Mrs and Mr P distress and inconvenience. It 
has offered £3500 for this.
Mrs and Mr P have declined this. They feel they should be compensated for out of pocket 
expenses as a result of their alternative accommodation being further away from their work 
than their home. Theyve not been able to evidence these costs but feel £20 a day for the 
238 days in alternative accommodation is fair. They also feel this sum would compensate 
them for missing milestone events in their own home.
There is a difference between payments for distress and inconvenience and expenses. It 
would be fair to expect that any reasonable additional costs are covered when being moved 
to alternative accommodation. But its fair to expect these costs to be demonstrated and Mrs 
and Mr P havent been able to do this. In the absence of this, I dont think its fair to expect it 
pay the additional costs of £20 per day they say theyve incurred.
I think the offer made for £3500 for the distress and inconvenience is fair. There were clearly 
significant delays added to this claim as a result of the trades employed by Covea and the 
actions they took. And as well as the time, the distress of feeling work hasnt been done 
correctly would be upsetting. I know Mrs P and Mr P would like more than this but the 
amount offered, in my opinion is representative of the level of inconvenience caused and 
demonstrates a real acknowledgement of this. I dont think Covea needs to offer any more 
beyond this for the distress and inconvenience.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ps complaint against 
Covea Insurance plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman