DRN-3662300
The complaint
Miss S complains about how Bapchild Motoring World (Kent) Limited wants to settle a claim 
she made on her motor warranty.
What happened
Miss S holds a motor warranty with Bapchild. When the digital speedometer on the 
dashboard failed, she made a claim on her warranty.
Bapchild accepted the claim. It said it would contribute toward the repair of the dashboard.
But Miss S wasnt happy with this and complained. She thought Bapchild should replace the 
dashboard, not repair it because thats what the manufacturer recommended needed to be 
done. Bapchild didnt agree. It said it was more economical to repair the dashboard than to 
replace it.
Unhappy, Miss S brought her complaint here. One of our investigators thought it should be 
upheld. They thought the evidence pointed to the dashboard needing to be replaced, so 
thought that was what Bapchild needed to do. They also thought Bapchild should 
compensate Miss S £400.
Bapchild didnt agree, so the case has come to me to issue a decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute what the fault is, or whether it is covered by the warranty, so I need 
not expand on that further. What is in dispute is what needs to be done to settle the 
claim.
The independent report carried out says more investigation needs to be done by the 
manufacturer.
The only information we have from the manufacturer is an invoice to replace, not 
repair the dashboard.
I appreciate Bapchilds argument that a manufacturer will often look to replace a part 
over repairing it. I agree that Bapchild shouldnt have to pay more than it needs to 
when settling any claim. And its evident that repairing the dashboard is a cheaper 
option than replacing it.
But while Bapchild is entitled to settle the claim in the most economic way, it needs to 
complete a lasting and effective repair. And its provided no evidence other than its 
own opinion to show that repairing the dashboard would be effective.
So, considering the independent engineer recommended inspection from the 
manufacturer, and the manufacturer has given an invoice to replace the dashboard. I 
find the weight of evidence more in favour of replacing the dashboard than repairing 
it. So, Bapchild should pay Miss S what she paid to replace the dashboard.
Bapchild didnt make an interim payment, and Miss S said she initially wasnt able to 
afford the repair. She was without use of this car between November 2021. But I 
have to consider whether Miss S mitigated her losses as best she could have. 
Ultimately Miss S took credit out to pay for this repair, so, I think she could have done 
this sooner and been without her car for less time. Shes given us her reasons for not 
doing and while completely understandable, I dont find Bapchild responsible for 
these.
That said, being without your vehicle for a lengthy period of time would have caused 
distress and inconvenience. So, to put things right, Bapchild should pay Miss S £400 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above. I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require Bapchild 
Motoring World (Kent) Limited to:
Pay Miss S the amount it cost her to replace the dashboard on her car upon receipt 
of the invoice. Payment should also include 8% interest. Interest should be calculated 
from the date Miss S paid the invoice, to the date Bapchild pays her.
Pay Miss S £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman