DRN-1409366
 
The complaint
 Ms C complains that Stagemount Limited (trading as Quidmarket) acted irresponsibly when 
it gave her unaffordable loans.
What happened 
This complaint is about loans Quidmarket provided to Ms C between September 2012 and 
May 2013. 
Ms C took out loans that were due to be paid back in one go although in the event she rolled 
over payments on all the loans.  
Rolling over payments means that instead of making the full payment shed signed up to 
make on the original due date Ms C arranged instead to make a smaller repayment. And she 
put off paying back the amount shed borrowed, plus all the interest she owed, until a later 
date. Each time Ms C rolled over payments this cost her extra interest.
Heres a table setting out details of those loans: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment Rollovers
106/09/2012 31/10/2012 1 £175.00 £224.88 1
201/11/2012 29/05/2013 1 £200.00 £262.56 6
331/05/2013 29/11/2013 1 £250.00 £325.10 3
 
Ms C said that if Quidmarket had done all the relevant checks it shouldve seen she couldnt 
afford these loans as she had too many other loans already. Ms C told us that she had to 
work many extra hours to clear her debts.
When Ms C first complained to Quidmarket it said the checks it carried out before lending 
were proportionate and decisions to lend to Ms C were responsible and made in good faith. 
But it also said that it would uphold Ms Cs complaint about loan 3 because thats when it 
shouldve made some further enquiries into her financial situation. And although Quidmarket 
doesnt know what those enquiries wouldve shown, it said it couldve made a difference to 
their lending decision  so Quidmarket offered redress for loan 3. It worked out how much 
this would be and said it would also remove any negative information about this loan 
recorded on Ms Cs credit report. 
Ms C didnt feel this went far enough to deal with her complaint  and when one of our 
adjudicators investigated, he agreed. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He didnt feel hed seen enough to say that 
Quidmarket shouldnt have lent loan 1 or loan 2. And he agreed that Quidmarket shouldnt 
have provided loan 3 and said its offer to put things right was broadly in line with our 
approach. But our adjudicator felt that Quidmarket should remove all information about 
loan 3 from Ms Cs credit report  not just the negative information as it had offered to do. 
And our adjudicator thought that Quidmarket shouldnt have approved any more rollovers on 
loan 2 after it had done this three times. So he set out the steps that he believed Quidmarket 
should take to put things right for Ms C.
Quidmarket disagreed with our adjudicator. It mainly said that it had offered redress in line 
with case studies published on our website. And that when Ms C applied for loan 2, there 
was no regulation in place to limit the number of rollovers she could apply for. Quidmarket 
said our adjudicators view was subjective, not based on fact, but opinion. 
So the complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quidmarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quidmarket should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Ms C could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Cs complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Quidmarket to give Ms C the first two 
loans  and as far as I can see, Ms C hasnt objected to what our adjudicator has said in his 
view letter. So I dont think I need to say more about the granting of these two loans. 
Ive thought carefully about what Quidmarket has said in response to our adjudicators view 
about the rollovers on loan 2.
Most lenders weren't signed up to the code governing lending practice before 2012 - but 
I think its fair to say that the code was evidence of standards of good practice becoming 
established. During this period there was developing good industry practice which pointed to 
three rollovers being the maximum borrowers should be allowed, given the link between 
rollovers and financial difficulties. 
On 25 July 2012 the Consumer Finance Association (CFA) published its own Lending Code, 
which also limited the number of rollovers to three. Members of the CFA were given until 26 
November 2012 to bring their practices into line with the code.
The OFT in its Payday Lending Compliance Review Final Report published in 2013 set out 
its concerns that a significant number of payday users were suffering misery and hardship 
because they were being encouraged to rollover loans which made their financial difficulties 
worse. 
Given this general concern about rollovers and attempts to raise industry standards dating 
back to before Quidmarket provided loan 2 to Ms C, I think it is reasonable to say that three 
rollovers was likely to be something Quidmarket should have identified as a sign of 
underlying financial difficulty. 
And it looks like the fourth time that Quidmarket allowed Ms C to rollover her payments on 
loan 2 (on 31/01/2013) this wouldnt have been in line with the CFA Lending Code that was 
by then in operation. And I think that sets a useful benchmark for what was fair and 
reasonable at the time.
So I agree with our adjudicator that Quidmarket shouldnt have allowed Ms C to rollover her 
repayments more than three times. I think that Ms C lost out when she continued to roll over 
on this loan after the first three times because Quidmarket should by then have been taking 
steps to help Ms C address her money problems - instead the rollovers added to the overall 
costs of the loan making it unsustainably affordable for her. And in my view thats borne out 
by the fact that when Ms C did finally repay loan 2 (almost 6 months later than the original 
due date) she took out loan 3 (and borrowed more money) just two days later.
So Im upholding Ms Cs complaint about the fourth, fifth and sixth rollovers on loan 2. Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Quidmarkets lending history with Ms C, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Quidmarket should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
I think that this point was reached by loan 3. I say this because: 
 
when Ms C took out loan 3, Quidmarket could see that shed now been paying 
Quidmarket loans for the last 9 months in a row 
 
the loan amounts increased each time, and bearing in mind the number of rollovers 
on loan 2, I think Quidmarket shouldve realised that overall there were clear 
indications that Ms C was having money problems 
 
her track record of borrowing again soon after repayment of each previous loan 
makes me think that Ms Cs finances were unstable and she was having difficulty 
managing her spending on borrowing 
 
Quidmarket ought to have realised it was likely Ms C was having to borrow further to 
cover a shortfall in her finances each time she paid the previous loan  so it 
shouldve realised that this was unsustainable for her 
 
I think that Ms C lost out when Quidmarket provided loan 3 because this loan had the effect 
of unfairly prolonging Ms Cs indebtedness by allowing her to take expensive credit over an 
extended period of time. And the length of time that Ms C had been borrowing was likely to 
impact adversely on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for 
high-cost loans. By loan 3, any further borrowing was likely to be damaging to her credit 
rating.
So I think Quidmarket was right to offer to uphold Ms Cs complaint about loan 3. But I think 
it should go further in terms of what it has offered to do in relation to amending Ms Cs credit 
file. 
Putting things right  what Quidmarket needs to do
A. add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 2 which were paid on or after the date of the fourth rollover 
(31/01/2013) and on loan 3, not including anything already refunded
 
B. calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms C, which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made the payments 
to the date the complaint is settled
 
C. Quidmarket should remove adverse information (if any) which was put on Ms Cs 
credit report in relation to loan 2 on or after the date of the fourth rollover 
(31/01/2013) 
 D. the overall pattern of Ms Cs borrowing by loan 3 means any information recorded 
about this loan is adverse. So all entries about loan 3 should be removed from 
Ms Cs credit file. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to deduct tax from this interest. Quidmarket 
should give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Ms Cs complaint and Stagemount Limited 
(trading as Quidmarket) should take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman