DRN-1999859
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that CIS General Insurance Limited trading as The Co-operative 
Insurance (CIS) has declined a claim they made under their home insurance policy for 
accidental damage.
Mr M has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to him only.
What happened
Mr M made a claim to CIS for a problem with his mobile elevated work platform. I understand
the control panel accidentally hit the floor and stopped working, which meant the platform
couldnt be operated. He was asked to provide a quote for the cost of repair and, when he
found one hard to source, to provide a quote for replacement. Mr M did so and, after CIS
considered the quote, it said the claim was declined. Mr M complained.
In response, CIS said it declined the claim because it thought the platform could be
considered a motorised vehicle  and theres a policy term which says these arent covered.
It apologised that Mr M had been asked to get a repair estimate before the claim had been
accepted and offered £100 compensation. CIS later sent a further response in which it said
the platform couldnt reasonably be described as household goods under a domestic
contents insurance policy.
Mr M remained unhappy with the outcome and referred his complaint to this service. Our
investigator considered it. He said the platform was primarily used by Mr M for garden
maintenance at home and didnt think it was fair for CIS to rely on the policy term to decline
the claim. CIS disagreed. It said the platform wasnt gardening equipment and could more
accurately be described as a commercial platform. It also said the platform was a vehicle
because its motorised and can be used to transport goods.
As CIS didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 5 June 2020. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold it. Ill
explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy covers accidental damage to contents. The policy defines the word
contents to mean, amongst other things, household goods but not motorised vehicles,
other than domestic gardening equipment.
Theres been much discussion about what meaning should be given to the words and
phrases household goods, vehicle, and gardening equipment. Theyre not defined in the
policy. If CIS had wanted to give them specific meanings, it should have done so when
writing the policy. As it didnt, I must give them their ordinary, everyday meaning when
considering whether the policy covers this claim.
For the platform to be covered it must be a household good. There are a number of
different dictionary definitions of the phrase. Generally they say a household good is an item,
owned privately, and used within and around the house. Most definitions say this includes
appliances and equipment and some also specifically mention machines. Mr M owns the
platform and uses it around his property. Taking into account the generally accepted
meaning of the phrase, I think its reasonable to describe the platform as a household good.
The next step is to consider whether the platform is a motorised vehicle  and if so, whether
its domestic gardening equipment.
The platform has been described as a scissor lift. Its made up of a base, on wheels, and a
basket in which items can be placed or people can stand. The base and basket are
connected by a folding mechanism which allows the basket to move up and down. I
understand its powered by a motor.
The main purpose of the platform is to move a person, possibly with some equipment, up to
a height and back down again. It has wheels to help manoeuvre it into position, so it can
travel along the ground. And it would be possible for a person and/or goods to be in the cage
whilst it did so. But, because its main function is to move vertically, it would be impractical to
use it to move items or people along the ground for more than very short distances. I
understand it would most commonly be operated by somebody on the ground, using the
control panel to remotely move the platform from its storage area to the location where
access at height is required and back again.
Looking online, its clear these kinds of platforms are available in a wide variety of sizes for
various functions. Some of the platforms are unlikely to be used in a domestic setting
because of their size and cost. But whats important to this claim is the particular platform
Mr M owns and how he uses it.
Mr M has explained that he uses his platform primarily to maintain vegetation at height
around his house and garden and could also use it for other maintenance, such as changing
lightbulbs located around the garden, beyond normal reach. Ive seen photos of the platform,
including Mr M using it to cut vegetation around the height of the second storey of his
property. My understanding is that Mr M uses the platform as a safer, more stable alternative
to a tall ladder. Although it might be possible to use it for commercial purposes, Mr M doesnt
do so.
Ive considered various dictionary definitions for the word vehicle. Most mention an item
with wheels and a motor and the platform has both. The majority of definitions also say a
vehicle transports people or goods over land or roads and takes them from place to place.
Technically the platform does that but over such short distances that I dont think it would be
fair to consider it a vehicle according to the everyday meaning. And because Mr M uses it as
gardening equipment at his home, overall I dont think it would be fair to apply the policy term
above in order to decline the claim. That means I think CIS should settle the claim, taking
into account the remaining policy terms. It should also add interest to any cash settlement it
makes, from the date of loss to the date the claim settlement is paid.
CIS offered £100 compensation for the service offered during the claim. I think thats
reasonable for the inconvenience Mr M has been unnecessarily caused as a result of theway CIS have handled the claim.
Mr M responded to the provisional decision, accepting the outcome. 
CIS havent responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has accepted the outcome of the provisional decision. CIS hasnt responded. So, I see 
no reason to depart from the outcome of my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im telling CIS General Insurance Limited trading as 
The Co-operative Insurance, to:
settle the claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
add interest* of 8% simple per year from the date of the loss to the date of settlement 
for the claim;
and, if it hasnt done already, it should pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation.
*If CIS General Insurance Limited trading as The Co-operative Insurance considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr 
and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing 
that if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman