DRN-3075627
The complaint
 Mr B is unhappy with the delays caused by National Savings and Investments (NS&I) in 
processing a withdrawal from his premium bonds.
What happened
On 6 April 2021, Mr B withdrew £25,500 from his NS&I account using the online service. He 
asked for the funds to be paid into his second nominated account. NS&I contacted Mr B the 
following day to let him know that his account couldnt be verified. 
NS&I also incorrectly told Mr B he could amend the details to his original nominated bank 
account and make the request to withdraw the money again straightaway. But the money 
hadnt been recredited to his NS&I account. 
Mr B contacted NS&I a few times to query where his money was. He needed it to complete 
on a property purchase which he was only able to do by borrowing money from a family 
member. 
NS&I said that they recalled the payment as the bank account couldnt be verified. They 
apologised for giving Mr B the wrong information and for the delays caused in returning the 
funds to his account. They also paid £75 compensation for the stress and inconvenience 
caused.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and agreed NS&I gave Mr B incorrect information 
and caused delays in returning the payment to him. She didnt think £75 was fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B. She asked 
NS&I to pay Mr B an additional £200.
NS&I agreed but Mr B didnt accept as he wasnt happy with the compensation amount. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NS&I have explained that in order to protect customers money, they use a system to check 
account details. If the bank account cant be verified, their process is to recall the payment 
which can take up to 15 working days to be returned to the NS&I account.
Mr B was withdrawing a large sum of money and was requesting for it to be paid into a newly 
set up nominated account. Based on this, I dont think NS&I were wrong to verify Mr Bs 
bank account.
NS&I have a duty to safeguard their customers money and prevent any fraudulent activity 
and scams. Since the bank account couldnt be verified, it wasnt unreasonable for NS&I to 
recall the payment as a precaution. 
I appreciate this was frustrating for Mr B as he gave NS&I the correct account details. But at 
the time, NS&I were only acting on the result of the verification checks. So, I cant agree 
theyve treated Mr B unfairly.
That said, I agree NS&I gave Mr B poor customer service. NS&I have already admitted they 
gave Mr B wrong information when he was told he could withdraw the funds again 
straightaway. This would undoubtedly have been stressful and worrying for Mr B, as his 
money wasnt in his NS&I account or nominated account.
Mr B spoke to NS&I a number of times to enquire about his funds. I think this caused him 
unnecessary inconvenience, frustration and annoyance, especially since his query remained 
unresolved and he required the funds to purchase his property.
I think NS&I couldve managed Mr Bs expectations and lessened the impact on him by 
explaining their process and timescales involved  they missed a few opportunities to do so. 
Buying a property is a stressful experience and I think NS&I exacerbated Mr Bs situation. I 
say this because Mr B was not only left to worry about the money missing from his account, 
but he also had to borrow from a family member.
NS&I returned the payment into Mr Bs account around a month after recalling the payment, 
by which point, the property purchase was complete. This is much longer than their own 
process of up to 15 working days. 
I understand this was due to the backlogs NS&I had at the time  but its not unreasonable to 
expect Mr B to have been kept informed, particularly when the payment was eventually 
returned to his NS&I account.
Mr B has said that the property was left on the market until completion. He explained this 
meant other prospective buyers couldve made a higher offer leading to additional solicitor 
costs. While this didnt happen, Ive taken into account the worry and stress this possibility 
wouldve caused him.
To put things right, Mr B has asked for £100 to cover the loss of interest. We can make 
awards of interest where appropriate  usually in the sum of 8% per annum simple interest. 
In this case, I cant fairly ask NS&I to pay Mr B interest, since he was intending on using the 
funds to purchase a property, rather than invest or save it. 
Mr B also feels he should be paid £50 per hour for five hours, which he estimates was the 
approximate time he spent trying to resolve the complaint. We dont compensate consumers 
for their time in units. But Ive factored the time Mr B spent in dealing with this issue into the 
inconvenience hes been caused. 
Having carefully thought about the impact on Mr B, I agree he was caused considerable 
worry, stress and inconvenience. This lasted for a number of weeks during an already 
stressful time for Mr B and required reasonable effort on his part to sort out.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied £275 compensation in total is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that National Savings and Investments 
should pay Mr B £275 compensation in total, if they havent done so already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman