DRN-4372014
The complaint
Mr F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd refuses to refund transactions that he says he didnt 
authorise or consent to. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise key 
events. 
Mr F reported to Monzo that he had strange activity on his account from September 2022 to 
December 2022. He says funds were moved out of his savings pot and then payments were 
made out of his account without his consent. Monzo declined to refund Mr Fs payments. 
One of our Investigators looked into things. She asked Mr F for further information about the 
transactions he disputed but he declined to respond. She explained that as there were no 
failed PIN attempts or points where Mr Fs security credentials could be compromised, she 
couldnt conclude an unauthorised third party could have carried out the disputed 
transactions. She also explained the transactions had occurred over a period of time, with 
genuine transactions in between, which wasnt indicative of fraud. 
Mr F didnt agree and our investigator arranged for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman to make a final decision. 
Before issuing this decision, I wrote to Mr F to explain my initial thoughts. I also explained 
that Monzo had offered to pay him £50 compensation for its fraud team failing to contact him 
until a week after his report. Mr F didnt provide any commentary on Monzos offer but 
explained that he wanted his money to be returned. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulations for Mr Fs disputed transactions are the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Monzo) must show 
the transactions were authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Monzo has provided 
technical information from which I can see that the disputed transactions which Monzo 
refuses to refund, were carried out using Mr Fs genuine card and security credentials. So 
the disputed payments were authenticated. 
The regulations also say that its necessary to consider whether the cardholder (in this case 
Mr F) authorised the payments. Generally, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise 
the payments and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So Ive gone on to 
consider whether its more likely than not that Mr F authorised the disputed payments. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Mr F told Monzo he still had his card in his possession. But the 
technical evidence shows that the disputed transactions were carried out using the genuine 
physical card and the PIN was correctly entered on each occasion. Our investigator asked 
Mr F multiple questions to try to ascertain whether another third party could have accessed 
his card, he didnt reply to the questions. And so, this is the fundamental problem with Mr Fs 
argument that he didnt authorise the transactions.  
Mr F told Monzo that he still had his card and hadnt disclosed his PIN. There were also 
undisputed transactions that took place in between the disputed transactions. At the time of 
the disputed transactions, there were balance enquiries but the full available balance or 
maximum ATM withdrawals were not attempted. This isnt indicative of fraud. And theres 
simply no plausible explanation as to how an unknown third party could have accessed Mr 
Fs security information and had the opportunity to take and replace his card without him 
knowing in order to carry out the transactions. 
For these reasons, I think its most likely that Mr F carried out the disputed transactions 
himself. So I dont require Monzo to refund him. 
Monzo offered Mr F £50 for its delay in the appropriate team responding to Mr Fs fraud 
claim. As Mr F made no comment on Monzos offer of compensation, I make no finding on 
this point. Should Mr F wish to accept this offer, he should contact Monzo directly so it can 
arrange the payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman