DRN-3734663
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc trading as Cahoot paid a third party bank a fee which 
he didnt want them to pay.
What happened
Mr S has an overseas bank account with a third party provider. But he says the account was 
inoperable, so he asked Cahoot if he could pay into his account with them a cheque from his 
overseas account, which they confirmed he could. Mr S says that after eight weeks the 
cheque was returned unpaid and his overseas bank refused to tell him why. He says he 
asked Cahoot to find out why the cheque was returned unpaid and they refused. Mr S says 
that on 21 June, Cahoot paid the overseas bank £270.65. He says if they discussed this with 
him prior to making the payment, knowing that he was in a serious dispute with the third 
party bank then he would have told them not to pay the funds. Mr S made a complaint to 
Cahoot. 
Cahoot did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said they received a foreign cheque on 27 
April 2022 for 27,000 Euros. They said on 20 June 2022, the foreign cheque had been 
unpaid due to the third party overseas banks decision and they were charging Mr S 276.11 
Euros for fees. Cahoot said Mr S would need to contact the third party bank about this. Mr S 
brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said it appeared that Cahoot made 
reasonable attempts to have the cheque paid. She said they were not responsible for the 
clearing time or the cheque being unpaid. 
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said nobody has yet told him why the cheque had not been paid or how the fee 
had been calculated. He said the fee appears to have been for a completed transaction. He 
said Cahoot knew he was in dispute with the overseas bank and they failed to assist him in 
any way. Mr S said the fee should not have been paid without reference to him and he would 
have told them not to pay it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points to this service and Cahoot and Ive considered and read 
everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal 
body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about how Cahoot should not have paid the fee to the 
overseas bank without reference to him and he would have told them not to pay the fee. Ive 
looked online for Cahoots terms and conditions to see if there is any reference to foreign 
cheques being unpaid. And there is. Section 6.4 of the terms and conditions references 
foreign currency cheques.
Condition (iv) of 6.4 of the terms and conditions shows a section titled unpaid cheques. 
Section (b) of these terms state If any Correspondent charges have been levied in respect 
of the unpaid cheque, these will also be debited from your Account.
So Im satisfied that Cahoot made it clear in their terms and conditions that there may be 
charges incurred for depositing a foreign cheque  even when a foreign cheque is unpaid. In 
this instance, Cahoot have said the charge was from the overseas third party provider who 
had charged the fee. Based on the terms and conditions, Im satisfied that Cahoot have not 
acted outside of these by paying the fee to the third party bank without consulting with him 
first. 
Mr S would need to contact the third party bank for a breakdown of the costs if he wants to 
know why he was charged what he was by them and he may also want to check their terms 
and conditions regarding their charges for issuing foreign cheques and unpaid foreign 
cheques. And to find out why the cheque was unpaid. Mr S should make a complaint with 
them if he feels it is necessary to do so. Here, as the complaint is against Cahoot only, I can 
only consider their actions, and not that of a third party overseas bank.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about Cahoot not assisting him in anyway and they knew 
he was in a dispute with the overseas bank. But Im not persuaded that they didnt try to 
assist him. I say this as they have set out their investigation and timeline into what 
happened. And they followed their process for a foreign cheque. Ive seen no evidence that 
the overseas bank have given them a reason for the cheque being unpaid. And Im not 
persuaded it is Cahoots responsibility to communicate with the overseas bank to establish 
this as this is something Mr S would need to take up with them directly. 
I say this as Cahoots role was to facilitate the foreign cheque to be paid into his account. 
They would have no control over the third party bank not honouring the cheque or what they 
would charge him for this. Even if Cahoot knew there was a dispute between Mr S and the 
third party bank, Mr S still chose to deposit the cheque with Cahoot, so I would not expect 
them to do anything different than what they did. So it follows I dont require Cahoot to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman