DRN-2900219
The complaint
Mrs F complains about Al Rayan Bank PLC (ARB) and their failure to transfer the funds from 
her matured ISA account into a new Fixed Term ISA (FTISA). 
What happened
In November 2019, ARB wrote to Mrs F explaining her current FTISA was due to mature. 
They provided Mrs F with forms to complete and return if she wished to transfer the funds to 
a new FTISA.
Mrs F says she completed and returned both forms. But ARB said a Transfer of Authority 
(TRA) form wasnt received. So, they wrote to Mrs F again in December 2019 with another 
form for her to complete. But Mrs F assumed ARB had received both forms and that her 
FTISA had been set up. So, she didnt do anything else at the time.
As ARB say they didnt receive the TRA form before the FTISA matured, they transferred 
Mrs Fs funds into an instant access ISA, which had a lower rate of interest. When Mrs F 
realised this, she contacted ARB to raise a complaint.
Mrs F believed ARB had failed to transfer her funds into a new FTISA as shed requested. 
And because of this, she thought shed been impacted financially, as her funds had been 
transferred into an instant access ISA with a lower rate of interest. So, she wanted to be 
compensated for the loss of interest her funds accrued into the instant access account, and 
her funds to be put into an FTISA with the same rate of interest offered in December 2019.
ARB didnt agree. They felt it was Mrs Fs responsibility to ensure they had all the forms they 
needed to set up the FTISA. And as they didnt receive a TRA form despite sending Mrs F 
another in December 2019, they didnt think theyd acted unfairly. So, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mrs F remained unhappy with this response, so she referred 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She recognised Mrs F said shed 
sent the TRA form while ARB disputed it. And, on the balance of probability, she thought it 
was most likely that Mrs F had sent the form and itd been misplaced by ARB. So, she 
thought Mrs F had lost out financially.
Initially, she thought ARB should either transfer Mrs Fs funds into a new LTISA at the same 
rate as December 2019 or compensate Mrs F for the difference in interest when her instant 
access matured. But ARB provided evidence to show Mrs F received a statement in March 
2020 to show her funds were in an instant access ISA. So, our investigator thought Mrs F 
shouldve been able to move her funds at this point. So, she thought ARB should pay Mrs F 
the difference in interest of 0.15% between December 2019  April 2020 and then 0.1% from 
May 2020 to the date the original FTISA Mrs F wished to open matured. Neither Mrs F or 
ARB agreed.
ARB maintained their view that Mrs F didnt provide the TRA. And they thought Mrs F was 
aware of the letter template she wouldve received if the FTISA had been set up. So, they 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong when transferring the funds to an instant access ISA. 
And Mrs F thought the initial outcome our investigator was fair, as she didnt think it was her 
responsibility to read the statement she received in March 2020 at length, when she 
assumed the FTISA had been set up correctly. As both ARB and TRA disagreed, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
It's clear the one of the main disputes of this complaint is whether Mrs F returned the TRA 
form when she was told her FTISA was due to mature in November 2019. Mrs F says she 
returned this form along with the other. Whereas ARB say it wasnt received and this is why 
they didnt transfer her funds into the new FTISA. Im unable to say for certain what 
happened to the TRA form Mrs F says she signed, so Ive had to think about what I think is 
most likely to have happened on the balance of probability. And I am aware as its Mrs Fs 
testimony against ARBs, one party to the complaint isnt going to agree with my decision.
But having thought about both testimonies, and the evidence that has been provided, I think 
its likely that Mrs F did sign the first TRA form she received in November 2019. It think its 
clear she wanted to transfer her funds into a new FTISA and Ive seen she completed the 
first form that was sent alongside the TRA. So, I dont think its likely shed only complete half 
of the paperwork she received.
And with the same rationale, I dont think its likely Mrs F would only have sent one half of 
the necessary forms to ARB. Mrs Fs husband applied for the same FTISA at the same time, 
and ARB have confirmed his application was completed and the FTISA created. As these 
forms were signed and sent to ARB at the same time, I think its more likely than not that Mrs 
F wouldve sent the same set of forms as her husband.
So, as I think Mrs F sent the TRA to ARB, and ARB received the other document sent 
alongside the TRA, I think its most likely the completed TRA was mis-placed or not 
processed correctly when ARB received it. And because of this, I think ARB have failed to 
process Mrs Fs request for a new FTISA to be set up. 
But Ive also thought about ARBs argument regarding the additional TRA they sent to Mrs F 
in December 2019. As this included a separate TRA, they think this shouldve made Mrs F 
aware the FTISA hadnt been set up correctly. But I dont think thats the case. Ive seen the 
cover letter sent alongside the TRA. And this letter confirmed an account had been opened. 
And crucially, it didnt confirm definitively that Mrs F needed to do anything else. 
The letter explained however you may still need to deposit funds into your account.. As I 
think Mrs F sent the forms ARB required, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs F to 
assume ARB had everything they needed. And the sentence above doesnt explain to Mrs F 
that she needed to take further action for the FTISA to be set up. I wouldve expected ARB 
to have made this request clearer to Mrs F and as they didnt, I dont think this changes my 
opinion that ARB failed to process Mrs Fs request for a FTISA fairly.
Ive seen that, as ARB didnt set up the FTISA at the time, Mrs Fs funds were placed in an instant access ISA which had a lower rate of interest. So, I think Mrs F has been financially 
impacted by ARBs failure to set up the FTISA and so, I think ARB should recognise this.
Putting things right
As I think ARB acted unfairly by not setting up Mrs Fs FTISA in December 2019, Ive 
thought about that I think ARB should do to put things right. Any directions I make are 
intended to place Mrs F back in the position she wouldve been in, had ARB acted fairly in 
the first place.
Ive seen the FTISA Mrs F wanted the set up had an interest rate of 1.5%. And the instant 
access ISA account her funds were moved into had an interest rate of 1.35%. So, I think she 
lost out on 0.15% from December 2019.
But I have also seen a statement ARB sent to Mrs F in April 2020, which I think made it clear 
that Mrs Fs funds were in an instant access ISA account with a lower rate of interest. So, I 
think at this point Mrs F shouldve been reasonably aware of this and had the ability to move 
the funds into an account with a higher rate of interest. I understand Mrs Fs argument that 
she didnt feel the need to read the statement at length, as she assumed the FTISA had 
been set up, but I think Mrs F had a responsibility to understand the accounts she held and 
the way they worked. So, although I appreciate her point, I think ARB made Mrs F 
reasonably aware of her interest rate and account at this point and couldve switched her 
account at this time.
In April 2020, ARB were offering an FTISA with an interest rate of 1.4%. From the evidence 
Ive seen, I think its reasonable for me to assume Mrs F wanted her funds to be placed in an 
account with the best rate of interest. So, from April 2020, I think Mrs F shouldve been 
aware her funds were in an account with a lower rate of interest, and that she had the ability 
to move them. Because of this, I dont think itd be fair for me to say Mrs F should be 
compensated for the full 0.15% from the December 2019 FTISA rate after April 2020.
So, because of the above, I think ARB should pay Mrs F the additional profit her funds 
wouldve accrued if he funds had been placed into the 1.5% FTISA between December 2019 
to April 2020, calculated on the 0.15% interest rate difference. And then I think ARB should 
pay Mrs F the additional profit her funds wouldve accrued if the funds had been placed into 
an FTISA available in April 2020 from May 2020 to the date her original FTISA wouldve 
matured, calculated on the 0.1% interest rate difference. The month gap is the account for 
the time it wouldve taken to process the forms and complete the transfer of funds.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Fs complaint about Al Rayan Bank PLC and 
direct them take the following action:
Pay Mrs F the additional interest that wouldve been accrued on Mrs Fs funds based 
on the 0.15% interest rate difference between the FTISA and instant access ISA from 
December 2019  April 2020; and
Pay Mrs F the additional interest that wouldve been accrued on Mrs Fs funds based 
on the 0.1% interest rate difference between the FTISA available at the time and 
instant access ISA between May 2020 to the date the original FTISA wouldve 
matured.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman