DRN-2900700
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun 
Life) mis-sold them a mortgage endowment policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in June 2021, which set out the background to the case and 
what I was minded to decide:
Mr and Mrs R held a mortgage endowment policy with Sun Life (which is the subject 
of a separate case). In 1997, they took out a loan for £4,325 with Sun Life  secured 
against their existing mortgage endowment policy. It also sold them a new mortgage 
endowment policy, with the recorded aim of repaying this new lending and 
generating additional savings. This had a term of 18 years, a guaranteed sum of 
£6,529, and a death benefit and target of £11,699.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs R complained (via a representative) about the sale of the 1997 
policy. Sun Life didnt uphold their complaint, so they referred the matter to our 
service. They said they were cautious investors, and they werent willing to lose 
money on their investment. Our investigator agreed the policy was too risky for 
them, so he upheld their complaint. But Sun Life has requested an ombudsmans 
decision. It says the risk was made clear and was suitable for Mr and Mrs R.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not minded to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
I think Mr and Mrs R would have been aware during the sale that there was a level 
of risk involved. Theyd previously taken out an endowment, which is an investment 
product. And the application form set out that they could get back more or less than 
the projected value at maturity (estimated between £10,600 and £15,800)  as this 
would depend on the investment performance. As I think they were made aware of 
the risk, the question Ive gone on to consider is whether the level of risk involved 
meant the policy was unsuitable for them.
Mr and Mrs R were sold a low cost, with profits endowment policy. At the time of 
sale, that would have been seen by the industry as a low risk investment. I can see 
from the application that they were asked about their attitude to investments and 
how speculative they were prepared to be. They rated themselves as four/five out 
of ten. This shows they were willing to take a level of risk with their investment, and 
suggests it was therefore suitable for Sun Life to recommend them a low risk policy.
Additionally, the policy was partly taken out as a repayment vehicle for their 
additional lending with Sun Life  and partly to generate savings. The guaranteed 
sum alone would have been sufficient to repay the additional capital borrowing. 
That lowered the risk they were taking on. Theres a difference between taking a 
risk with repaying your secured lending, and taking a risk to try to generate 
additional funds.
As our investigator identified, the 18-year term of the policy meant Mrs R would be 
63 and Mr R would be 65 at the end of the term. According to the application, only 
Mr R was employed at the time of sale. So although Mrs R has told us she intended 
to retire at 60, Im not persuaded this made it too risky for them  as the policy was 
offered based on Mr Rs employment. And the form shows that the end date was 
chosen to match Mr Rs retirement age. So I dont consider the term of the policy to 
have made it too risky for them.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs R were made aware of the risks of the policy  and 
that it was suitable for them. Whilst it came with a low level of risk, this is part and 
parcel of having an investment product. On balance, I think they were willing and 
able to take the risk, for the possibility of receiving more back or exceeding their 
target if the investment performed well.
I invited both sides to submit any further comments and evidence. Sun Life hasnt added 
anything. But Mr and Mrs R have disagreed with my provisional findings. In summary, they 
(via a representative) have responded that:
They didnt require another endowment. As the death benefit was higher than the 
capital borrowing, alternative options should have discussed. Although the 
guaranteed amount of £6,529 would cover the borrowing of £4,325, thats not 
unreasonable as theyd have to pay over £10,000 over the full term.
The option of securing the loan to the property rather than the existing endowment 
should have been discussed.
The wording of the question about how speculative they were willing to be was 
unclear. They understood this to mean how they speculated the term of the 
investment, and the answer was relatively long term (18 years). It also wasnt 
labelled what one through 10 meant.
The documents said the amount theyd get back at maturity would depend on 
investment growth rather than performance. They werent willing to take a risk with 
their finances given their circumstances.
The application question does the client understand the value of the units may fall as 
well as rise wasnt answered, as their endowment wasnt unit-linked. But it was still 
relevant given the risk. Their primary concern was to save money for home 
improvements, not to gamble with their funds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision. To explain why, in addition to the points Ive set out above, Ill address Mr and 
Mrs Rs response.Mr and Mrs R say they didnt require another endowment, and alternatives should have been 
discussed because the death benefit was higher than the borrowing. But the previous 
endowment, taken as a repayment vehicle for their mortgage in 1987, didnt account for their 
additional lending in 1997. This suggests a need for a further repayment vehicle. 
Additionally, as they go on to acknowledge, the purpose of the new endowment wasnt solely 
to repay the lending. It was also aiming to generate additional savings. Looking at the 
application, the level of detail recorded about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances, and their 
signatures, show it was completed with their input. It therefore seems likely that details such 
as the level of death benefit they wanted were based on what they reported at the time. 
Regarding the amount Mr and Mrs R would have paid if theyd held the policy over the full 
term, Id point out that the premiums didnt solely cover their investment. They were also for 
the £11,699 life cover offered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs R say they should have been given the option of securing the lending against 
their property rather than their endowment. This seems to diverge from the crux of the 
complaint referred to us  i.e. whether the endowment, not the lending, was mis-sold. But as 
far as this relates to the suitability of their endowment, Id point out that Sun Life wasnt their 
mortgage provider. If they wanted to take further lending against their property, they could 
have contacted their mortgage provider rather than Sun Life. Even if the lending was added 
to their mortgage, this was sold on an interest-only basis. Ive no reason to think further 
lending secured against their property would have been sought and offered on a different 
basis. So they would likely still have needed a further repayment vehicle, and  based on 
their application  a way to build up some savings. Overall, Im not persuaded this point 
affects my decision about the suitability of the policy. 
Looking at the application question about investment attitude, I do agree with Mr and Mrs R 
that this could have been worded more clearly. But whilst there were two parts to the 
question  one about how speculative they were prepared to be, and another about the 
investment period  there were also two different answer sections. Mr and Mrs R answered 
in the second section that they wanted their investment to be applied in the long term 
(defined on the application as eight or more years). So Im not persuaded they reasonably 
thought they were ranking themselves as four/five solely regarding the investment term they 
wanted, when they went on to answer this separately immediately below. 
On balance, Im persuaded Mr and Mrs Rs response about how speculative they were 
prepared to be shows they were willing to take at least a low level of risk. Whilst there is no 
code for the 1-10 scale, they ranked themselves towards the middle. I dont think this can 
reasonably be interpreted to indicate no risk tolerance  which would also seem inconsistent 
with their wider circumstances. They already held an endowment policy, suggesting some 
prior experience with, and appetite for, such products. And even when complaining about 
this earlier policy (which our service didnt uphold), they acknowledged their intention to later 
take out an interest only mortgage. 
I understand the point Mr and Mrs R have raised about the key features document stating 
that the maturity figure was dependent on how the investment grew rather than performed. 
But it also showed that the guaranteed maturity amount was only £6,529. Additionally, with 
this type of endowment, annual bonuses would have been added based on the investment 
performance. Once added, these generally cant be taken away if the policy is held for the 
full term. So Im not persuaded this wording was misleading to such an extent that it unduly 
influenced their decision to take out the policy. Overall, I consider it clear that the 
endowment was an investment product involving an element of risk.I dont agree that the question about whether the client understood that the units may fall as 
well as rise should have been answered, as Mr and Mrs Rs policy wasnt unit linked  so it 
wasnt relevant to them. But I appreciate their wider point that the risk should still have been 
made clear. For the reasons Ive already explained, Im satisfied they likely knew that this 
policy involved a level of risk  and were willing/able to take this. 
Ultimately, Im considering whether Sun Lifes recommendation was suitable for them, not 
whether  with the benefit of hindsight  it was necessarily the most suitable (or best) option. 
Given their aims and needs, as recorded in their application, I think this form of endowment 
was suitable for them as it provided a low risk way to try to build up savings on top of 
repaying their borrowing. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman