DRN-3133587
The complaint
Ms L complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles lent irresponsibly when it approved her
credit card and later increased the credit limit.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Ms L applied for a credit card with Marbles in May 2016. In the application, Ms L said she 
was married, a tenant and worked as a par time contractor earning around £7,200. 
Marbles also recorded other household income of around £5,800. Marbles completed a 
credit check and found a default that was over five years old and around £100 of other 
unsecured credit.
The application was approved with a £300 credit limit.
Ms L didnt use the card until July 2016. In November 2016 the credit limit was increased 
by Marbles to £950. In December 2016 and February 2017 Ms Ls balance went over the 
agreed credit limit.
In March 2017 Marbles increased the credit limit to £1,450. Marbles affordability data 
shows Ms Ls unsecured borrowing with other lenders increased from around £1,100 in 
March 2017, when her credit limit was increased, to around £5,000 in November 2017. 
And it was in November 2017 that Marbles approved the final credit limit increase to 
£1,950.
In the months that followed, Ms L began to miss payments and her card was closed 
around a year later.
Ms L complained that Marbles lent irresponsibly but it didnt agree. Ms L referred her 
complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld Ms Ls complaint 
and said Marbles should refund interest and charges applied to Ms Ls account from March 
2017 onwards. Marbles didnt accept so Ms Ls complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Before a business agrees to lend, it should take reasonable steps to ensure it does so in a 
responsible way. Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. In practice, this 
means businesses should ensure proportionate checks are carried out to make sure the 
customer can afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These checks should 
take into account various factors, like the amount being lent, the costs to the borrower 
each month, credit history and the consumers income and outgoings. As the relationship 
between lender and borrower progresses, the business may need to consider carrying out 
more comprehensive checks to ensure the borrower can afford repayments in a 
sustainable way.
In this case, Ive considered the original application and can see that Marbles found a low 
level of other unsecured debt on Ms Ls credit file and a default that was over five years 
old. I think its reasonable to note Ms Ls declared income was modest at £5,800, but 
Marbles approved a credit limit of £300. Im satisfied that the decision to approve Ms Ls 
Marbles credit card was reasonable based on what it knew about her.
Ive looked at the information Marbles had available when it approved subsequent credit 
limit increases and I havent been persuaded it lent responsibly. I note the first credit limit 
increase was from £300 to £950, over three times the original limit. At this stage, Ms L had 
only made two payments towards her credit card so the relationship between her and 
Marbles was reasonably new. I also note the other unsecured debt shown on Ms Ls credit 
file increased to £500 by this point.
In my view, these above factors shouldve highlighted to Marbles there was a risk Ms L 
wouldnt be able to sustainably repay a much higher credit card debt. I think Marbles 
shouldve carried out more comprehensive checks. For example, Marbles couldve asked 
for proof of Ms Ls income or obtained bank statements to show her income and outgoings. 
There are other options Marbles couldve used, Ive given these as examples only. Had 
Marbles carried out better checks I think it wouldve declined to proceed with a credit limit 
increase as it wouldve found Ms L was unable to repay the increased borrowing in a 
sustainable way.
It follows that if I think Marbles lent irresponsibly when it approved the credit limit increase 
in November 2016, I find the later increases to be irresponsible as well. Ive looked at 
whether there were other factors that shouldve given marbles cause to carry out more 
proportionate checks.
I note the next increase, this time to £1,450, took place only four months after the previous 
credit limit increase. At this point, Ms L had held her credit card for a year and the credit 
limit was around five times higher than the original Marbles approved. I can also see that in 
the four months since Ms Ls credit limit had increased, Ms L went over her credit limit 
twice, including the month before it was put in place. I further note Ms Ls other unsecured 
borrowing had increased to around £1,100 at this point. I think there were clear signs that 
Marbles shouldve picked up on that Ms L wasnt borrowing in a sustainable way.
In much the same way, I think Marbles lent irresponsibly when it approved the final credit 
limit increase to £1,950 in November 2017. At this point Ms Ls other unsecured credit had 
increased substantially to over £5,000. I think it shouldve been clear to Marbles that Ms L 
had become more reliant on credit over time and that increasing her borrowing again 
wasnt sustainable.
I note Ms L began to miss payments in the months that followed and Marbles ultimately 
took the decision to close her account.
In my view, the fairest approach in this case is for Marbles to refund all interest, fees and 
charges applied to Ms Ls credit card debt from November 2016, when it increased the 
credit limit to £950, to date.
As I think Marbles lent irresponsibly, I dont agree its fair for it to record any adverse 
information about Ms Ls credit card to the credit reference agencies from that point. As a result, I also intend to tell Marbles to remove all adverse credit information it has reported 
from November 2016, when it increased the credit limit to £950, onwards.
I invited both parties to respond with any further comments they wanted me to consider. 
Both parties have confirmed they accept the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the provisional decision Im going to proceed on that basis 
and uphold this complaint in line with the following settlement.   
Putting things right
- Refund all interest, fees and charges applied to Ms Ls credit card from November 
2016 to date
- If at any period the interest refunds result in Ms Ls closed accounts being in credit, 
Marbles should pay 8% simple annual interest on the date that credit balance arose 
to the date of settlement
- If the above refund results in an outstanding balance, NewDay should arrange a time 
to discuss an affordable arrangement plan with Ms L
- Amend Ms Ls credit file to remove all adverse information recorded from November 
2016 onwards
- If NewDay has sold the debt, it will need to take steps to either buy the debt back or 
put the above proposed settlement in place with the new owner
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Ls complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles to 
settle in line with the above guidance.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman