DRN-4119436
The complaint
Mrs B complains that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited (HBOS) shouldnt have 
sold her investment below the current value she was told over the phone when she 
instructed the sale and for less than the minimum investment return shed told HBOS she 
wanted. 
To put things right, Mrs B wants compensation. 
What happened
HBOS provided Mrs B with an execution-only dealing service. Under her policy, Mrs B held 
two portfolios: an ISA investment and a Collective Investment Plan (CIP).
The following is a brief overview of what happened.
In May 2021, Mrs B invested £40,000 in the CIP.
On 22 September 2022, Mrs B wrote to HBOS regarding both her portfolios and, with regard 
to her CIP, said as follows: When the valuation reaches a minimum of £42,000 (no less), 
I would like to completely close my account and the money to be paid into my (bank) 
account 
After HBOS tried unsuccessfully a couple of times to speak to Mrs B it wrote to her on 
28 September 2022, enclosing a withdrawal form for her use if she wanted to close the 
account.
On 17 January 2023, Mrs B phoned HBOS and gave authority for her representative to deal 
with the call. Through her representative, Mrs B instructed HBOS to encash her CIP 
investment after HBOS said the current value of her investment was £43,241.89. 
HBOS arranged the surrender and the value received was £43,021.22. 
When Mrs B complained that this was not the amount she had wanted, HBOS didnt uphold 
the complaint. In brief summary, it said the call handler had told her that the price he quoted 
during the call wasnt guaranteed. HBOS further explained that as her CIP investments were 
dealt with on a forward-pricing basis, the actual surrender value couldnt be known until the 
sale completed.  
Mrs B didn't feel this was enough to resolve her complaint so she came to us and one of our 
investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator was satisfied that HBOS had explained that the price quoted was from the 
last available pricing point and it didnt guarantee the price that would be achieved when 
Mrs Bs funds were sold. So she didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigator. She mainly said:
she wasnt happy with this outcome because her representative had clearly stated 
the price she wanted to achieve and if this price wasnt reached, then not to cash in
also, at the point of sale HBOS would have known what the price was, so she wanted 
to know why the sale went ahead when HBOS knew this amount fell short of the 
value Mrs B wanted and they didnt do it the last time.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mrs B  I can completely understand that whats happened has been 
upsetting and frustrating for her. We provide an informal complaints handling service and 
this is reflected in the way Ive approached the complaint. The purpose of my decision isnt 
to address every single point or question raised because its not what Im required to do in 
order to reach a decision in this case. My role is to consider the evidence presented by 
Mrs B and HBOS and reach an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the 
facts of the case. 
Having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the 
same overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why I say this. 
The crux of the complaint seems to me to be whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mrs B when HBOS went through with the sale of her CIP funds when the surrender 
value was lower than the minimum figure Mrs B had said she wanted. So this is the focus of 
my decision. And in order to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and award the redress she is seeking 
I would have to be able to make a finding that HBOS has done something wrong or acted in 
a way that wasnt fair and reasonable and this led to Mrs B suffering financial loss or some 
other detriment. 
Ive been provided with HBOSs CIP withdrawal guide and Supplementary Investor 
Information Document for the CIP, and the following information is included:
We normally value shares at 12 noon each working day. So if you ask us to add to your 
investment or make a withdrawal, well buy or sell your shares at the prices which apply at 
the next valuation after we receive your instructions at our administration unit
I think that its reasonable to assume that something similar to these terms wouldve applied 
to Mrs Bs CIP as this way of pricing is typically used industry wide. Mrs B would have had to 
agree to HBOSs terms and conditions when she signed up to use her account. 
I've carefully listened to the call recordings from 17 January and I am satisfied that HBOS 
explained over the phone that the price it was quoting simply reflected the latest share price 
at the last available pricing point and this price wasnt guaranteed in future. lve also seen 
screenshots showing that she was given correct pricing information at the time. 
I appreciate that Mrs B had previously said she didnt want to sell if the price fell below the 
minimum she wanted to achieve. But that wasnt something that HBOS had any control over. 
In any event, it was after this that Mrs B instructed HBOS, via her representative on 
17 January 2023, to sell the funds in her CIP investment. HBOS actioned the sale in 
accordance with its business terms and in line with Mrs Bs selling instructions. I can see why Mrs B mightve been confused by HBOSs letter of 28 September 2022 when 
it said I have not actioned your request as your value was below the amount you asked 
for But this isnt enough of a reason for me to uphold this complaint. I say this because 
HBOS had written to Mrs B shortly after this in October 2022 explaining as follows:
In your letter dated 22 September 2022 you requested a withdrawal once your value is (sic)  
reaches a certain value. Unfortunately we are not able to keep a request on the system and 
check the account until it reaches a certain figure. Each withdrawal request we receive is 
based on forward pricing, which means the deals are priced at the next available share 
price. The pricing system we use is a standard industry wide process called forward-pricing 
These are strict rules set out within industry regulations and not something we can alter or 
change
So I think this clarified that, so far as her CIP investment was concerned, neither Mrs B nor 
HBOS could know in advance how much shed get back when her CIP was closed. Thats 
because the fund values were constantly changing in response to market conditions and the 
value didnt crystallise until the actual point of sale  it couldnt be predicted with any 
certainty before the sale completed. And I am satisfied that HBOS stated this clearly to 
Mrs B again during the phone calls before she went on to instruct the sale of her CIP 
investment. 
To sum up, I find that:
HBOS acted correctly when it carried out Mrs Bs selling instruction promptly, in line 
with its terms and conditions, and
HBOS acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs B when it actioned the sale on her 
instructions as it had already provided enough information to make Mrs B reasonably 
aware that there could be no assurance or guarantee when placing a selling order 
exactly what price she would achieve. 
All in all, I havent seen enough to show that HBOS did anything wrong or that it treated 
Mrs B in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable when it handled the sale of her CIP. So 
I cant uphold this complaint. I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs B but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman