DRN-3155128
The complaint
Mr F complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly. Mr F says that the 
repayments were a large proportion of his income. He says that a review of his financial 
situation before he took the loan would have shown that he was not able to afford it.
What happened
On 10 February 2018 Loans 2 Go approved a £250 loan for Mr F. It was due to be repaid as 
eighteen monthly payments of just over £56 each. The first repayment was arranged for
21 February 2018 and the last was due to be 27 July 2019. Mr F repaid the loan on 
29 June 2020.
Loans 2 Go has explained that Mr F declared an income of £2,500 a month and his 
expenditure (including credit commitments) as £1,600 a month. Loans 2 Go has said that it 
verified his income and based its assessment on a figure in the region of £2,049. And, 
having considered his application plus Mr Fs credit file details it gathered that his 
expenditure was more like £1,686. It added a 10% additional margin to account for any 
fluctuations and still Loans 2 Go considered Mr F was able to afford the £56 each month.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Loans 2 Gos review of the 
credit search results it had for Mr F ought to have prompted it to have obtained further 
information about Mr Fs financial situation. Our adjudicator thought that it ought to have 
obtained copies of his bank statements leading up to February 2018. She felt that had Loans 
2 Go looked at those, it would have seen enough about Mr Fs situation that it ought not to 
have approved the loan.
Mr F agreed with our adjudicators view. Loans 2 Go did not, and explained, amongst other 
points, that the credit file history did not show Mr F was behind on his payments to any 
existing credit commitments, that some of the adverse entries were historic and the checks it 
carried out for a £250 loan with a £56 a month repayment were proportionate.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision giving reasons why I was planning not to uphold Mr Fs complaint as I considered 
that the checks Loans 2 Go had carried out were proportionate. 
Since then Mr F has responded to my provisional decision and my findings, and Loans 2 Go 
has said in the past that it had nothing further to add. So, it seems appropriate to issue my 
final determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision dated 7 February 2022
We have set out  our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Taking into 
account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think I need to consider in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are whether Loans 2 Go completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F would be able to repay in a sustainable 
way? And, if not, would those checks have shown that Mr F wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Loans 2 Go did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr F and that he 
has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that making the 
repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences. 
That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of normal income without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other payments he had a contractual or 
statutory obligation to make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his 
financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to approach the loan application from the perspective 
of the likelihood of getting its money back. Loans 2 Go had to consider the impact of the loan 
repayments on Mr F. Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of 
factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could 
look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more thorough:
othe lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
othe higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
othe greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
I have the advantage of financial information, records, copy bank statements and two sets of credit 
histories about Mr F. One set is the credit search results Loans 2 Go obtained in February 2018 
before approving the loan. The other set is a more recent personal credit file report sent to us by Mr F 
which covers the lending period. And Mr F has sent to us his bank statements for two accounts: his 
Classic account and his Cash account. I have reviewed them all.
I realise that Mr F thinks that Loans 2 Go ought to have had all the information he may have had 
before approving the loan. But the regulations covering responsible lending for regulated firms do not 
require that. I have decided, on current evidence, the checks carried out by Loans 2 Go were 
proportionate and I would not have expected it to have done more than it did before lending £250 to a 
new customer with repayments of £56 a month. Even accounting for the length of term, which I have 
done, still I think it did enough.
It would not have been expected, and it would have been disproportionate, for Loans 2 Go to have 
asked for and reviewed several sets of personal bank statements before lending Mr F this amount for 
this loan.
I accept that Mr Fs credit history looked to have been troublesome in the years before he applied for 
this Loans 2 Go loan. For example, the credit search results Loans 2 Go obtained before it approved 
the loan showed some defaults from 2012 and 2015, some historic arrears on his mortgage and two County Court Judgments (CCJs.) These had been satisfied in 2017. And the Loans 2 Go set of credit 
search results show he had one payday loan but that was a loan opened in 2012.
As Loans 2 Go has explained, and as I know from the industry relating to high cost credit, then the 
customers using these sorts of lenders often do have adverse credit file entries. But thats not of itself 
a reason not to lend. Applying the regulations surrounding responsible lending I do consider that 
Loans 2 Go carried out proportionate checks. And I do think that Mr F looked able to afford £56 a 
month.
To assist Mr F, I have reviewed the other complaints he has had with this Service and I have reviewed 
his bank statements carefully. I can see that the loan he took out from one company in late 
November 2017 for £1,500 does appear as a credit on his bank statements but does not appear on 
the credit search Loans 2 Go carried out in February 2018. And the other loans he had paid off earlier 
in November 2017 did not appear either as they would have been closed. Loans 2 Go did not need to 
consider closed loans as these would not have gone towards assessing affordability for the current 
loan application.
And it is correct that different searches carried out either by businesses or consumers can show 
different details which may go some way to explaining to Mr F why the £1,500 loan did not appear. 
Another reason is simply that a loan taken on 30 November 2017 may not have been uploaded to the 
credit search companies database by 10 February 2018. But it was open to Mr F to declare that 
recent loan when he applied for the £250 loan on 10 February 2018. It seems he did not.
In any event, I would not have expected Loans 2 Go to have been looking at his bank statements and 
so I do not think its likely if would have seen that £1,500 loan.
Another aspect I have noted from Mr Fs bank statements is that his salary for the months leading up 
to February 2018 was higher than that used by Loans 2 Go and higher than his declared income. And 
so even if Loans 2 Go had reviewed his bank statements, which I do not agree it needed to do for this 
loan, that  additional income would likely have been factored into any affordability assessment.
Further, Mr F has described the £56 a month as a large proportion of his income. Clearly it was not 
when I have seen his net salary credits ranged from £2,917 7 to £3,091. So, I disagree with Mr F on 
that element.
My final determination 
As I have said earlier, Loans 2 Go had already made its position known, had nothing further 
to add, and said it would wait for my decision.  
Mr F has responded to my provisional decision. Understandably Mr F is disappointed with it, 
but has told us that he has nothing further he can send to strengthen his case and so Mr F 
has indicated that he reluctantly accepts the outcome. 
Mr F goes on to add: my complaint about the default being registered against me should 
have been upheld and I would have been happy if the company was advised to take adverse 
information and the default off my credit file.
I have seen that Mr F has asked that the adverse entries on his credit file are removed. But 
that presumed that the complaint was being upheld, in which case it would be our normal 
approach to ask Loans 2 Go to remove adverse entries from Mr Fs credit file. 
But, as my decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint it is not open to me to ask Loans 
2 Go to remove any adverse entries from his credit file. And so, Im not going to do that. 
I have checked this complaint and Mr F having an issue with a default registered against his 
name was not part of this complaint and not addressed by our adjudicator. If Mr F has a 
separate issue with Loans 2 Go about that it is a matter for him. I have checked Mr Fs previous complaints which have come to the Financial Ombudsman and there are no others 
by Mr F against Loans 2 Go about which the Financial Ombudsman is aware. 
In the circumstances and with no further information from either party then I see no reason to 
alter my findings. I repeat my provisional decision here. And my final determination is that for 
the reasons given, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman