DRN-2907503
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) lost the title deeds to their property,
which were held in relation to a mortgage - and this led to a delay in its sale.
References to Mr and Mrs K includes that of their agents or representatives unless specified. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs K asked Barclays to provide them the title deeds for their 
home for the purposes of a sale. Barclays said it had previously sent the title deeds 
to a third-party solicitors (Company A) in 2016 by recorded delivery upon Mr and Mrs 
Ks request. But it said the deeds were never returned. Company A agreed it had 
received the deeds previously, but said it had returned them sometime after.
Mr and Mrs K complained, saying Barclays error had led to a delay of four months in 
the sale. In turn this led to lost rent, further mortgage and rates payments, and 
rehousing costs for a third party.
Barclays agreed to fund the reconstitution of the deeds but didnt agree it was 
responsible for the loss of the deeds, saying this sat with Company A. Barclays also 
offered £250 in compensation for the time it took to answer the complaint and the 
impact caused.
The complaint was brought to this service and our investigator upheld the complaint. 
He said Barclays internal notes reflected the deeds were sent on a loan period to 
Company A. And so, in light of the significance of the document, it seemed 
unreasonable for Barclays to not follow up their return within the four-year period. 
The investigator said if the sale had gone ahead as planned, Mr and Mrs K wouldnt 
have received any further rent, and that any extra mortgage payments they made 
during the delay wouldve reduced their balance when the mortgage was redeemed. 
However, he said Barclays should cover the additional rates on the property paid by 
Mr and Mrs K across the delayed period and any additional costs for the third party 
that they had paid upon receipt of evidence. He also said compensation offered 
should increase from £250 to £500. 
Neither Mr and Mrs K or Barclays replied to the view, so the complaint was passed to 
me for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional thoughts on the complaint on 23 June 2021. Ive included an extract 
of this below.
Its not disputed that Barclays sent the title deeds to Company A on the request of 
Mr and Mrs K. But there has been a dispute about whether Company A returned the 
deeds to Barclays. Theres little evidence to show when or which party lost the 
documents, simply that Barclays has no record of them from 2016 onwards.
Barclays notes reflect it had provided the title deeds to Company A on a loan 
period and that it was sent by recorded delivery. So, Ive thought about Barclays 
responsibilities as the custodian of these title deeds. It seems unreasonable to me 
that Barclays did not enquire or request the return of these deeds from Company A 
across the four-year period since it provided them on loan.
Im satisfied if Barclays had done so, either the documents may have been returned 
or their loss wouldve come to light earlier. And in either instance, this wouldve 
allowed for time to reconstitute the deeds (if necessary) in advance and not during 
the subsequent sale in 2020. So, Im satisfied Barclays has made a mistake, and that 
its actions contributed towards the delay in sale.
Mr and Mrs K have requested Barclays pay their mortgage costs for the additional 
four months. Im in agreement with our investigator that Mr and Mrs Ks payments 
wouldve reduced their overall balance, so they havent suffered a financial loss as a 
result of this. In regards to renting the property, Im not persuaded based on what Ive 
been given that a tenant wouldve remained in place during those four months. I say 
this in light of the property being sold, its often the case that tenants will move on.
I agree with our investigator that Barclays should cover Mr and Mrs Ks additional 
rates. However, based on what Ive been given its unclear to me what re-housing or 
accommodation costs wouldve been necessarily incurred by Mr and Mrs K as a 
result of this delay. Without further evidence to support this and demonstrate these 
were necessary costs Im not minded to make any award on this point. 
Mr and Mrs K also have mentioned additional legal costs theyve incurred as a result 
of the delay. For me to consider this further, Id expect Mr and Mrs K to demonstrate 
they have incurred these necessary further costs solely as a result of this issue.
So, Ive gone on to think about Barclays actions more widely. It has acknowledged it 
couldve responded quicker to Mr and Mrs Ks request. And its paid the costs for the 
reconstitution of the title deeds alongside £250 in compensation. Mr and Mrs Ks 
solicitor has suggested this offer should be taken as an admission of guilt. But I 
disagree, and Im satisfied Barclays has been clear why it has paid these costs and 
made this offer.
In the circumstances, taking into account the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr and Mrs K and their anxiety of potentially losing the sale, Im minded to agree with 
our investigator that Barclays should increase its offer of compensation to £500. 
Barclays has already agreed to cover the costs of the reconstitution of the deeds, 
which is what I wouldve directed it to do had it not already done so.
For these reasons I said I intended to uphold the complaint and direct Barclays to pay the 
cost of additional rates for their property incurred across the four-month period of delay, and 
£500 in compensation. 
Barclays responded to say it agreed. Mr and Mrs K responded, providing evidence of rates 
paid and a statement from the buyers of their property. This says Mr and Mrs K allowed the 
buyers to live in the property prior to the sale going through without paying any rent or 
charge. And Mr and Mrs K say this shows they are due substantial compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding this complaint for the reasons Ive given previously.The statement provided by the buyers of Mr and Mrs Ks property indicates they had made 
an informal arrangement between themselves and Mr and Mrs K. This doesnt appear to be 
something they were obligated to do, and so it isnt something Id consider to be a necessary 
cost in the circumstances. In turn, this simply isnt something Id look to direct Barclays to 
compensate Mr and Mrs K for.
Ive been given no other new points to consider, so my decision remains the same.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Mr and Mrs K:
the cost of additional rates for their property incurred across the four-month period of 
delay  this would be upon receipt of these costs being paid. In addition, 8% simple 
interest calculated from the date of any funds already paid; and
pay Mr and Mrs K £500 in compensation (it can deduct £250 from this sum if its 
previous offer has already been paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman