DRN-4058177
The complaint
Miss As complaint is about her mortgage account with Together Personal Finance Limited. 
Miss A says that Together has mis-managed her account, causing her financial loss, distress 
and inconvenience. Miss A has also complained about the length of time Together took to 
deal with her complaint.
To settle the complaint Miss A wants Together to reimburse the account with £2,400 which 
she believes is due to her, and pay compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Together accepts there were times it could have given better service, and it has paid 
compensation of £100 for delay in responding to the complaint.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. There are several reasons for 
this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, and in the 
investigators letter dated 29 March 2023. All parties have a copy of that letter, so there is no 
need for me to repeat the details here. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Miss A being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A took out the mortgage in 2015 with another lender, after taking advice from her own 
independent financial adviser. The mortgage was later transferred to Together. Miss A 
redeemed the mortgage on 12 October 2021 when she moved to a new lender.
Ive noted the fees Miss A says she has incurred which she would like Together to 
reimburse. These are as follows:
£150 application fee;
£15 transfer fee;
£260 valuation fee;
£1,395 intermediary advice fee.
However, these are all fees that formed part of the application process when Miss A decided 
to move her mortgage to a new lender, and so theres no basis on which it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to expect Together to reimburse them.
Ive reviewed the payment history for the account and I cant see any fees or charges that 
have been incurred. There was one occasion in November 2019 where the account was 
£6.07 off schedule, as a result of which additional interest was being charged. This was 
quickly rectified by Miss A and therefore the account has remained on schedule ever since. 
Overall Im satisfied from the account history that there doesnt appear to have been any 
mis-management of the mortgage account. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt provide an auditing service, and so Ive based 
my findings on the payment history and account records. If Miss A still believes her account 
has been mis-managed resulting in financial loss to her, its always open to her to have the 
account audited by a professional, such as an actuary or accountant, at her own expense. 
If such an audit was to reveal any financial loss that could be attributed to any act or 
omission on the part of Together, Miss A could then bring a new complaint about this and 
include the cost of the audit in her claim for compensation. But my review of the available 
evidence doesnt lead me to conclude theres been any error by Together in its management 
of the mortgage.
Miss A has also complained about delay by Together in responding to her complaint. I note 
Together paid compensation of £100 for this. However, complaint-handling isnt a regulated 
activity, nor is it ancillary to a regulated activity. This means that a complaint about the way 
Together handled the complaint isnt covered by our rules and so its not something I can 
comment on or for which I can award compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman