DRN-3079642
Complaint
Mr J complains about an investment of £40,000 he made into Green Oil Plantations (GOP) 
in 2012, in a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) operated by The IPS Partnership plc 
(IPS, which now trades as The James Hay Partnership). Mr J says he was a retail 
investor (not sophisticated nor high net worth), did not wish to take high levels of risk and 
did not understand GOP to be high risk (which it is now clear it was). He says IPS is 
responsible for the loss he suffered through making the investment because:
IPS failed to act in his best interests
IPS failed to carry out sufficient due diligence into the suitability or appropriateness 
of GOP, when it should have carried out additional and extensive due diligence, 
due to GOP being unregulated, and possibly a UCIS.
Failed to properly warn him about the appropriateness of the investments or 
consider with him the associated risks of investing in an illiquid fund such as GOP.
Failed to consider how GOP would operate.
IPS unreasonably attempted to exclude its liability.
IPS failed to adequately explain (or at all) the content or effect of the signing of 
the High Net Worth Statement he signed, particularly in light of the fact there 
was no financial advisor involved in the investment.
IPS failed to properly investigate him or his desired investment outcome.
IPS failed to act in a manner expected of a regulated firm.
Background
Mr J opened a SIPP with IPS in July 2010. He switched his existing SIPP to IPS. His 
existing investments were moved to IPS in specie. The switch was done on the advice of 
his Independent Financial Advisor (IFA). The application from also stated that the IFA was 
to be the investment manager to the SIPP.
GOP
GOP was an investment which aimed to deliver returns by cultivating a plantation of 
Millettia Pinnata trees, to produce green oil, animal feed, fertilizer, honey and carbon 
credits. The plantation was in Australia, and aimed to use intensive farming methods to 
achieve high yields.
The investment was aimed at UK investors, and was first marketed in March 2010.
K800x#10
Investment in GOP came with various options. The one Mr J took was a Tenancy and 
Buyback Agreement. This involved Mr J taking a lease over a plot of the plantation, and 
then renting the plot back to GOP, with it managing the plot for the duration. The duration 
of the arrangement was five years and GOP offered a total return on invested capital of 
80%, and a buy back at the purchase price at the end of the term (in other words, a return 
of capital). It was explained as follows:
Your first years returns will be paid in 2013 and every year thereafter, on the anniversary 
of your investment which is stated in your application and buyback contract.
You will receive the following rate of returns which is always based on the capital invested:
2013 = 5%
2014 = 10%
2015 = 13%
2016 = 15%
2017 = 37%
A month prior to each anniversary you will receive a letter and a statement from us 
confirming the returns due, and we will ask you to verify the bank account details you 
would like it to be paid into.
IPS says it considered the following documents, when deciding whether or not to 
accept GOP:
A letter dated 15 December 2010 from GOP to IPS, confirming the land 
the plantation is on was designated for agricultural use only.
A GOP brochure  A Clean and Ethical Way of Powering the World, produced 
by a UK agent for GOP called The Ideas Factory. The brochure has a 2010 
copyright date.
A GOP Company Information Pack. This is a 15 page document which is undated 
but contains a number of pieces of correspondence from June 2010. The pack 
includes:
oDetails of the company and its officers.
oDetails of the land on which the plantations were based, with confirmation of 
the title registration.
oDetails of the professional bodies working for GOP  solicitors in the UK 
and Australia, accountants, auditors etc.
oTwo letters from an Australian insurance broker, detailing the insurance taken 
out by GOP.
oVarious letters of support from Australian banks, law firms, politicians and 
local associations.
oA letter from an electricity company, confirming its interest in purchasing 
energy produced by GOPs product.
I have seen copies of each of these documents. I have also seen the administrators 
report, dated 5 June 2013, and a third party due diligence report, dated spring 2012. The 
administrators report clearly post-dates IPSs acceptance of GOP into Mr Js SIPP and I 
am not aware the due diligence report was relied on by IPS  it was found during the 
course of our investigation of Mr Js complaint.
The third party due diligence report details a site visit to GOPs plantations in Australia by a 
UK business which specialises in reporting on alternative investments. The 53 page report sets out all stages of the investment and the projected returns. It features photographs of 
the plantation, nursery, and the harvesting and processing machinery. It explains the first 
harvest is due in late 2012 and the anticipated return from that harvest.
The administrators report confirms GOP went into administration in April 2013. Essentially 
it says GOP ran out of money due to it having to pay the high promised returns to investors 
and fees, and the plantation having failed to yield its first harvest by that time, as a result of 
various delays. The report says:
The majority of products were structured such that fixed returns were paid to investors 
from the first investment anniversary. However, the first harvest of green nuts was not 
initially forecast to be achieved for a period of 2 years (and in practice, may be significantly 
longer) Furthermore, only one plot was planted in 2010, following delays caused by, inter 
alia, bad weather (which delayed planting) and an FSA investigation in the UK which led to 
a delay In raising funds (and therefore making funds available to GOPH for the purchase 
of land) The remainder of the plots (with the exception of plot 13) were planted over an 
extended period and required the same maturity period. This resulted in the obligations to 
pay returns to investors outstripping income generation.
The business model relied on initial forecasts for the Millettia plantation that showed high 
yields after two years of tree growth. This was based on a plantation operating model that 
involved growing the trees at a high density (supported by ongoing irrigation and addition 
of fertiliser). We understand that this is an untested technique for this species and scale of 
plantation the initial forecasts also relied on income from supplementary products, 
primarily animal feed and fertiliser. To date, these supplementary products have not 
generated revenue and there are material uncertainties as to whether these are capable 
of generating significant net revenue.
Additionally, there were high upfront establishment costs and ongoing fees. These 
included circa 15 per cent commission and fee payments on investments raised and a 15 
per cent plantation management fee (which was levied on all costs incurred by GOPH, 
including land acquisition costs).
The FSA investigation referred to was a review of GOP by the FSA in 2010, to ascertain 
whether or not GOP was a collective investment scheme. The administrators report says 
the FSA initially concluded GOP was not a collective investment scheme but then, in May 
2013 (i.e. after GOP had entered administration), concluded it was.
In 2014 GOP went into liquidation.
IPSs due diligence on GOP
In addition to referring to the documents listed above, IPS has told us:
The investment was identified as a non-standard investment. This in itself is not 
a red-flag as non-standard investments are perfectly permissible. But IPS carried 
out additional checks over and above ascertaining that the investment was 
permissible and eligible for inclusion in a registered pension scheme (e.g. is not 
taxable moveable property as defined by HMRC).
As the proposed investment was leasehold plots of land, this was deemed 
permissible and eligible. Beyond this, having established that it was a non-
standard investment, IPS had to consider whether it was prepared to buy the 
asset on behalf of Mr J. As Mr J was reasonably deemed high net worth (as validated by his FCA- regulated financial advisor as well as by Mr J himself) and 
was investing less than 10% of the value of his pension rights in the investment, 
IPS allowed the investment.
IPS carefully reviewed the investment documentation at a senior management 
level and within its compliance and fund vetting teams, asking a number of 
questions to GOPs UK registered office that were satisfactorily answered. The 
proposed investment seemed legitimate and given the supporting documentation 
there was no indication that the investment was linked to fraudulent activity.
It is not unreasonable to say in the circumstances that Mr J would, or should, 
reasonably have been aware of the risks of making an investment in GOP. 
Amongst other crucial declarations, the High Net Worth Statement Mr J signed (I 
have set out details of this below) specifically makes it clear that such an 
investment could mean a loss of assets.
IPS is not regulated or authorised to provide financial advice. IPS did not endorse 
GOP as suitable for Mr J as this was neither expected by the regulator nor inside 
its regulatory mandate. It was for Mr J to decide if the investment was suitable as 
an investment for his SIPP based on his attitude to risk.
The leases on the land were registered at the Australian land registry in the name 
of the investors SIPPs. Even following the 2014 Dear CEO letter a similarly 
presented new investment would have been approved for purchase within its SIPP 
because its controls that meant only high net worth investors could invest subject 
to a percentage cap on the value of the investment when measured against their 
overall SIPP value.
Where a valuation is required, IPS would ask the scheme member (as co-Trustee) 
to contact the investment administrator and arrange for this to be supplied. This is 
covered in the terms and conditions of the IPS SIPP booklet under the section 
headed Statements and Valuations where it says that Valuations and 
statements for the investments you choose to make with your IPS SIPP will 
depend on the providers of these investments and you will need to agree this with 
them.
Mr Js investment in GOP
On 27 January 2012 Mr J sent the following letter to IPS:
On my behalf please arrange for a £40,000 pension scheme investment into the Green Oil 
Plantations 5 Year Project (lease purchase & buyback). I enclose a partially completed 
application and an investment prospectus. Please forward completed documentation 
directly to the company.
I understand that you may need to check my eligibility to invest in this product and if 
so please contact my financial adviser who will be able to provide this confirmation.
Mr J applied to invest £40,0000  which amounted to 1,852 trees (one hectare). I 
understand the total value of his SIPP at this time was around £450,000.
Mr J signed IPSs Statement For Self-Certified High Net Worth Individual on 17 February 
2012. This required him to declare that he met the definition of a high net worth individual 
for the purposes of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (that definition was set out in the document). It also required him to declare:
I accept that I can lose my property and other assets from making investment 
decisions based on financial promotions.
I am aware that it is open to me to seek advice from someone who specialises in 
advising on investments
Mr J was also asked to complete and sign a further form by IPS, which Ill refer to as the 
questions. This was signed and dated 17 February 2012, and asked the following of Mr 
J (his answers in brackets):
1.Please explain how you became aware of the proposed investment and confirm 
that you fully understand that this is an unregulated investment and cannot be 
marketed to retail clients in the UK. (received promotional literature)
2.In the preceding financial year did you have an income of £100,000 or more? (if 
yes, please provide a copy of your P60 and any other supporting documentary 
evidence) (no)
3.In the preceding tax year did you own net assets of £250,000 or more? Not 
including your primary residence or any loan on it (if yes, please provide a 
detailed list of assets held and their value) (yes)
4.Do you understand that the James Hay Partnership has NOT provided any advice 
in relation to your investment? (yes)
5.Have you read and understood the Terms and Conditions of the investment? (yes)
6.Do you understand the charges associated with the investment? (yes)
7.Do you understand that higher risk investments can yield higher returns but there 
is no guarantee and you may get back less than you invested? (yes)
8.Are you comfortable with the level of risk you are taking with this investment? (yes)
9.Do you understand that the investment may be difficult to sell and this could 
impact on your ability to take benefits from your pension? (yes)
10.Do you understand that If you die the investment may be difficult to sell and 
your beneficiaries may suffer financially? (yes)
11.Do you understand that the investment's past performance is not a guide to 
future performance? (yes)
These forms were forwarded by email to IPS by Mr Js IFA, with the following covering note:
[name of IPS staff member], please find attached high net worth documents, the 
originals have been sent to you by post. Please confirm when you have sent the 
payment for this investment.
On 20 February 2012 Mr Js IFA also sent the following letter to IPS:
I have dealt with this client for 10 years and can confirm that he has personal investment assets, excluding primary residence and pension funds, valued in excess of £250,000. I 
am of the opinion that this client can be considered a 'High Net Worth Individual in 
accordance with the FS&MA 2000 qualification.
IPS has also provided us with copies of an email exchange which took place with Mr Js 
IFA prior to this. These show Mr Js IFA called IPS to ask what documents would be 
needed, for the GOP investment to go ahead.
On 21 February 2012 IPS confirmed £40,000 had been sent to GOP. Mr J received £997.76 
from the liquidator of GOP on 15 October 2014 and £560.04 on 15 June 2015.
The complaint
Mr Js representative complained on his behalf to IPS. IPS did not uphold the complaint. 
Mr Js representative then referred the complaint to this service. In addition to repeating 
the points of complaint summarised above it said:
IPS had not met its obligations under COBS 10 of the FCA Handbook.
There are a number of reports issued by the FSA and FCA about the duties 
and obligations of SIPP providers, which are relevant to this complaint.
Mr J had no experience of this type of investment.
IPS did not properly explain it was carrying out the SIPP investment on an 
execution only basis.
Mr J was unaware what the ramifications of signing the High Net Worth 
Statement were and it was not properly explained.
Being an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS), GOP should not 
have been promoted to Mr J.
IPS had breached FCA Principles 2, 3 and 6.
By allowing its name to appear on the GOP literature, IPS (James Hay) 
had endorsed GOP.
IPS had failed to highlight the risks of the investment to Mr J.
Our investigators view
Our investigator concluded Mr Js complaint should not be upheld. He said, in summary:
Its clear from the various submissions and statements that IPS accepts it had 
to think carefully about which investments it would allow in its SIPPs.
Before accepting Mr Js business, IPS had:
oConsidered whether, according to HMRCs rules, GOP could be held 
within a SIPP.
oIdentified the investment as non-standard. And conducted additional 
checks as a result.oReviewed the GOP marketing material at a senior management 
and compliance level.
oAsked GOP questions to further understand the investment and satisfy 
itself that it wasnt fraudulent.
oRequested that Mr J complete a High Net Worth Statement.
Its important to emphasise that, at the time, Mr Js IFA was regulated by the FSA. 
IPS could take a significant level of comfort from this alone. IPS would be aware 
that regulated advisers are under many regulatory obligations to ensure they have 
their clients best interests in mind when providing their services. He had not seen 
any negative commentary about the IFA involved that would have put IPS on alert 
that it should not deal with it.
IPS also received a letter from the IFA confirming the IFA had known Mr J for 10 
years and he met the FSMA definition of a high net worth individual. So IPS 
wouldnt necessarily have had concerns about the promotion of this investment to 
Mr J.
IPS was not required to ensure an investment was suitable for its customers. It 
did have a responsibility to run certain checks, for example to ensure its 
customers werent entering arrangements that were clearly fraudulent. But IPS 
wasnt required to reject an investment simply because it was high risk or 
esoteric
GOP was a freehold owner of the land that it would ultimately sub-lease to 
investors through its Australian subsidiary (governed by Queensland law). IPS 
confirmed that the leases on the land were registered at the Australian Land 
Registry in the names of the investors SIPPs. As of February 2012 (the date of 
Mr Js investment) 386 hectares of land had crops planted on them. So there was 
legal ownership of land, and there were crops planted on that land. The way GOP 
intended to generate returns relied on planting crops on plots of land. Those plots 
of land were real, ownership was genuine and crops had been planted.
GOP proposed to use a number of innovative farming techniques in order to 
generate the high anticipated returns. Whilst using untested farming 
techniques might increase the risk factor the investment presented, he did 
not think it would necessarily mean the investment should not be accepted in 
Mr Js SIPP.
The five year plan projected very high returns. There is an intrinsic link between 
risk and reward. And, in his opinion, GOP was a very high risk investment. He 
would expect this to be rewarded with the potential for high returns.
It could be argued that the level of return on offer was such that IPS ought to have 
enquired further to understand how these were to be generated. But GOP 
proposed to monetarize several different aspects of the Millettia plant to extract 
maximum value from the plantations. So although the returns were high, GOPs 
explanation of how this was going to be achieved was plausible.
In the disclaimer section of the application form for the investment, GOP sets out:This does not guarantee that the company will be a success or that any 
investment is not liable to loss
It did not therefore appear that GOP was guaranteeing returns. So, on balance, 
taking into account other findings he had made about GOP, he did not think the 
high returns alone would give IPS reason not to accept the GOP investment.
He had also taken into account the spring 2012 third party due diligence report 
referred to above. The business which produced that report is a research 
company that specialises in supporting financial intermediaries, providing 
information on investments. The report explains:
In January 2012 [business name] carried out their first annual inspection visit to 
the green oil plantations site in Queensland, Australia. The purpose of the visit 
was to carry out due diligence and review the operation
The business specialised in researching alternative assets. Its report raised no 
concerns with GOPs operations. He was not suggesting that IPS took this into 
account when making the decision whether or not to accept GOP in Mr Js SIPP. 
But it is relevant that a specialist alternative asset research firm had no concerns 
with the way GOP operated in January 2012 after an on-site visit. This led him to 
believe IPS, as a SIPP operator, could fairly have reached the same conclusion 
following its due diligence.
IPS accepted this view. Mr Js representative did not  but it did not make any 
significant new submissions.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision. In that decision I identified a number of relevant 
considerations which were, in summary:
The FCAs Principles for Businesses  in particular Principle 2, 3 and 6 
The relevant law and what this says about the application of the FCAs Principles 
and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. This 
included R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) and R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 2878).
The High Court judgment in the case of Adams v Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 
(Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions 
LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. 
Regulatory publications, which reminded SIPP operators of their obligations and set 
out how they might achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I concluded that, ultimately, in determining this complaint, I needed to consider whether IPS complied with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due 
skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs 
responsibly and effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers, to treat 
them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Id look to the 
Principles and the regulatory publications to provide an indication of what IPS could have 
done to comply with its regulatory obligations.
I then set out my provisional findings as follows: 
What did IPSs obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business IPS was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include 
deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments.
The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed 
by the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a 
a particular investment is an appropriate one for a SIPP.
I am satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, IPS 
was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular applications for 
investments, with the Principles in mind.
Should IPS have accepted Mr Js investment application?
As a preliminary point, I think it is important to highlight that some of the points Mr Js 
representative made, when making the complaint on his behalf, are misplaced. As 
mentioned, IPS did not have to ensure GOP was a suitable investment for Mr J  and it 
could not give him advice. Nor did it have to require Mr J to undertake a formal 
appropriateness test  GOP was not a type of investment to which such tests applied at 
the time. I also note Mr Js representative says no financial advisor was involved in the 
investment in GOP. But that is not supported by the available evidence (I will expand on 
this below).
Having carefully considered the available evidence, I think IPS should have done more to 
ensure its checks on GOP were independent  rather than simply relying on material 
produced by GOP or its agents, or answers given by GOP to its questions. I also think 
there were some points of concern about the investment which ought to have been 
apparent to IPS. But there were also several things it could take comfort from and, taking 
into account the full circumstances of this complaint, I do not think it would be fair and 
reasonable to say IPS should have refused Mr Js investment instruction. I have set out my 
reasons for reaching this conclusion below.
IPSs due diligence
IPS says it identified GOP as a non-standard investment and carried out additional checks 
over and above ascertaining that the investment was permissible and eligible for inclusion 
in a registered pension scheme. It has detailed the steps it took, which involved 
considering a promotional brochure for GOP and an information pack provided by GOP, 
and asking questions of GOP.
I think this went a long way to meeting IPSs regulatory obligations and the standards 
of good practice, and IPS could have taken some comfort from what it saw, whilst also 
identifying some points of concern. I will detail the latter first.The investment structure essentially involved the investor taking a lease of a plot of the 
overall plantation, and renting it back to GOP (and the return being paid as rent). Thus 
the investor was the landlord and GOP the tenant. The brochure explains:
A quarter hectare is priced at £10,000, a half hectare £20,000 and a full hectare £40,000. 
You can buy multiples of the sizes available. The 8 year project currently has availability of 
quarter, half and full hectares.
The lease is fully registered in your name at the Australian land registry office for a one off 
registration fee of £550.00. The leaseholder has total freedom to sell, reassign, exploit the 
land themselves, appoint someone to do the farming on their behalf or let the plot to Green 
Oil Plantations.
You are given the choice to enter into a tenancy agreement where you become the landlord 
and Green Oil Plantations the tenant.
The landlord has the flexibility to give a 3 months notice to exit the tenancy any time during 
the term of the tenancy.
The lease purchase amount will be refunded to the landlord at the end of the tenancy term.
Green Oil Plantations can pay such rental returns when they utilise each rented plot for 
the management and exploitation of your trees produce.
Mr J entered into such a tenancy agreement, for a five year term, and was offered a very 
high return for doing so  80% - meaning Mr J was due to receive £72,000 after five 
years.
By way of explanation as to how this return will be achieved the brochure says:
Each plot produces the following products which can be sold locally in Australia.
Green Oil  this can be sold for the production of electricity or Biofuel
Animal Feed
Bio-Fertiliser
Honey
Carbon Credits
Bio Herbicide
Unique Features Of Our Intensive Millettia Plantations:
High density planting
High yielding genetics
High level of soil nutrition to encourage higher oil content of seed
Secure and superior irrigation system installed, utilising channel water from 
the nearby dam which never runs out (not relying on natures sometimes 
unreliable rainfall)
High pollination rate achieved with additional bee colonies introduced
Superior pruning techniques to induce more flowering and subsequently more seed
Superior mechanical harvesting techniques utilised
Seed processed within 12 hours of harvesting to achieve higher oil recovery
Superior processing equipment used to achieve highest extraction rate
The plantation will produce 3 crops per year and the first crop will take place in 2012.Crude Millettia oil prices are based on the Crude Palm oil price which is indexed on the 
stock market. Palm oil can be used for biofuel and electricity production however; its main 
use is for food. Over 90% of the food on the supermarket shelves contains palm oil. Non 
food oils like Millettia oil will fetch a higher price than palm oil as it is not affecting the food 
chain.
Our figures have been calculated on a price 25% below todays crude palm oil prices.
The price we can achieve selling our primary product, green oil, will continue to rise in the 
coming years. As you can see from the above, we will have the ability to choose who we 
sell the oil to and in what form  this is unprecedented for an energy product  as the 
demand can only increase substantially.
In my view, although there is some detail about how GOP plans to generate returns, the 
basis of the projected return to those, like Mr J, entering a Tenancy and Buyback 
Agreement isnt completely clear. All the brochure effectively says is lots of things can be 
done with the products of the plantation and the oil price is high and will rise. So there was 
a risk consumers might be misled about the potential returns, or at least did not have 
sufficient information to assess their viability.
It is also clear from the brochure that GOP (or the return generated by the plantation) is 
to absorb all the costs, as the following is said:
Q: What are my ongoing costs should I choose to appoint GreenOil Plantations to manage 
my trees and land?
A: All costs and taxes will be covered by Green Oil Plantations should you choose to 
enter into a contract with us. Your only costs are your personal tax liabilities. We will be 
able to cover such costs from the revenue generated from your trees. We will also take 
an insurance cover at our own cost to protect your trees and any loss of returns.
But no detail of these costs, which would assumedly include planting, maintenance, 
harvest, transport, insurance etc is given. The return was also payable on the sum 
invested, in Sterling. So the currency risk was shouldered by GOP too. It is not clear how 
all this is factored into the projected returns and, in the absence of this information, 
consumers may not have had sufficient information to fully assess the investment.
In respect of the insurance, the brochure says:
Green Oil Plantations will also take at its own cost an annual comprehensive insurance 
to cover any risks of plantation damages.
For landlord protection our insurance will also cover loss of rental income.
Q: How does the insurance cover work?
A: We commit to take a comprehensive insurance cover to protected (sic) the plantation 
and crop in event they are affected. This insurance will be put in place for those clients who 
appoint Green Oil Plantations to manage their plot through the tenancy or buyback 
contracts.
The costs of such insurance will be the full responsibility of Green Oil Plantations.
But it is not clear how insurance would cover things to the extent described by GOP i.e. 
ensure that the very high returns promised would be paid. This is a further point of concern.
Finally, it is clear from the brochure that GOP was planning to pay returns before it 
generated any. The brochure (which, as a reminder, was dated 2010) contains several 
testimonials from investors who have already been paid their first year returns. But the 
brochure also confirms that the first harvest is not due until 2012. It is not clear how these 
returns are being funded.
So there were a number of points of concern. IPSs due diligence also seems to have been 
limited to considering the brochure, the Company Information Pack and some questions 
asked of GOP. But it would have been good practice for the due diligence to be 
independently produced/verified. And so it would have been fair and reasonable for IPS to 
do this.
However, there is insufficient evidence to show the concerns should, fairly and 
reasonably, in the circumstances of this complaint, have led to the conclusion GOP 
should not be allowed in Mr Js SIPP at all or that independent checks would have 
revealed reason to refuse the investment.
As mentioned, IPS could have taken some comfort from what it saw. There were details of 
the title to the plantation land, credentials of those involved with GOP, letters of support 
from reputable sources, confirmation some insurance had been taken out and confirmation 
of the appointment of businesses which could reasonably be expected to be involved in the 
day to day running of a business such as GOP.
I think IPS could reasonably have concluded from its due diligence that Mr Js SIPP 
would acquire title to an asset. There was sufficient information to ascertain GOP had 
title to the land it was leasing, and UK and Australian law firms had been appointed to 
deal with the registration of title.
I think it is also clear from the third party due diligence report and the administrators 
report that the investment operated as claimed. And so whilst it seems IPS had no 
independent confirmation of this when it decided to accept the investment in Mr Js SIPP, 
it seems this could have been sought, and obtained.
Although the projected returns were very high there was, as mentioned, some basis for the 
projections in what IPS saw. And there is much more detail in the third party due diligence 
report. So I think it is reasonable to say that further independent checks at the time of Mr 
Js investment would have revealed more detail about how GOP intended to generate the 
returns it projected. There would not, in my view, have been sufficient to suggest the 
projected returns might be illusory  only that there was considerable risk, as the returns 
required successfully obtaining several products from the plantation and intensive farming 
methods which did not appear to have been used in relation to the crop previously.
The following disclaimer was also given in the brochure:
GREEN OIL PLANTATIONS LTD is a company offering Agricultural land lease Project 
opportunities where ethical investors have the complete freedom to exploit the plot 
themselves or rent their plot out for the purpose of receiving a rent return in our 8 year 
project or receive capital appreciation on their trees in our 5 year project. It is offering these 
projects on a best efforts basis and the information supplied within this brochure reflects 
managements fair judgment of the returns, the mechanics and the commercial markets of 
the project at the time of writing.
As with all investments there are risks and these risks are taken by the purchaser. The company is of good standing with a management team of 30 years experience in the 
development of sustainable commercial Green Oil producing plantations.
This does not guarantee that the company will be a success or that any investment is not 
liable to loss.
So there was a warning that the projected returns might not be achieved and were based 
on GOPs judgement.
Finally, the brochure also said more information available on request  and GOP appears to 
have responded to the requests IPS made. So I think it would have been fair and 
reasonable for IPS to conclude that further information would have been available to Mr J, 
had he requested it.
So I think there was reason to be cautious about accepting GOP. But I do not think there is 
sufficient evidence to say the investment should not have been allowed in the SIPP at all, 
no matter what the circumstances.
IPS was cautious about accepting GOP in Mr Js SIPP. And it took steps which in my 
view were fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The involvement of an IFA
Mr Js IFA was UK based, FSA regulated, long established, and appears to have had the 
regulatory permissions required to give advice on personal pensions and other 
investments. I have not seen any evidence to suggest that IPS had reason to be concerned 
about the IFA. I have seen no evidence, for example, of it having introduced unusually large 
volumes of business or of it specialising in unusual unregulated investments. Mr Js SIPP 
was conventionally invested, largely in mainstream managed funds. So I think it was fair 
and reasonable for it to deal with the IFA with confidence, and to assume the IFA was 
meeting its regulatory obligations.
When the SIPP was opened, the IFA was appointed as investment manager to the SIPP. 
So I think IPS could reasonably assume any investment decisions made thereafter were on 
the advice of the IFA, unless there was good reason to think otherwise.
In this instance, Mr J (rather than the IFA) did write the letter asking for an investment to be 
made in GOP. But his IFA was also involved. The IFA asked about IPSs requirements for 
allowing the investment in GOP in Mr Js SIPP. It called IPS about this, exchanged emails 
with IPS, and sent the completed High Net Worth Statement and the questions to IPS. It 
also endorsed the High Net Worth Statement in a letter to IPS and enquired as to when the 
investment would be made. This all suggests the IFA was involved with the transaction from 
the outset. And I think it would have been reasonable for IPS to therefore assume the IFA 
was giving Mr J advice (although I appreciate the IFA may not actually have given advice).
Like the investigator, I think IPS could have taken significant comfort from this, given 
the significant regulatory obligations on the IFA.
Even if IPS was aware the IFA was not giving advice, or should have been aware the IFA 
was not giving advice, I still think it could take significant comfort from the IFAs 
involvement. The IFA was clearly aware of the detail of Mr Js proposed investment in 
GOP, and there was nothing to suggest the IFA had advised against the investment or 
otherwise discouraged it. On the contrary, the IFA took an active interest in ensuring the 
investment went ahead. There was nothing to suggest it had distanced itself from the 
investment. And in these circumstances the IFA would still have had significant regulatory 
obligations.Overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for IPS to conclude Mr Js IFA was involved 
with the transaction and that IPS therefore took the fair and reasonable step of ensuring 
a regulated IFA was involved (which there appears to have been no reason for it to have 
concerns about), when making the decision to allow the investment in Mr Js SIPP.
The High Net Worth Statement
I think allowing the investment in GOP on the condition Mr J was a high net worth 
investor, was a further fair and reasonable step to take, to counter any risk of consumer 
detriment here.
Although GOP was not known to be a UCIS at the time, and so no formal rules about its 
promotion applied, IPS could take comfort from Mr J meeting the criteria for the promotion 
of such investments (which are often similar in nature to GOP) and that Mr J was therefore 
in the category of investor for which a small exposure to an investment like GOP might be 
suitable.
Mr Js representative says he did not understand the High Net Worth Statement or its 
implication. But there is insufficient evidence to show IPS ought to have known or 
suspected this. It was written in clear, plain language and Ive seen nothing to show Mr J 
gave any indication that he did not understand it. Furthermore, his IFA was involved and 
endorsed the statement. So I think it was fair and reasonable for IPS to rely on the High 
Net Worth Statement when making the decision to allow the investment in Mr Js SIPP.
The questions
IPS asked 11 questions of Mr J, which I have set out above. In my view, this was a fair and 
reasonable step to take. The questions sought to confirm Mr J did meet the definition of a 
high net worth investor, had taken steps to understand the investment and its risks, and 
understood IPSs role. Clear, plain language is again used and I think, again, that there is 
insufficient evidence to show IPS ought to have known or suspected Mr J did not 
understand the questions asked of him. I therefore think it was fair and reasonable for IPS 
to rely on the questions, when making the decision to allow the investment in GOP in Mr Js 
SIPP.
Limited exposure to GOP
When making the decision to allow the investment in GOP in Mr Js SIPP, IPS says it also 
had regard to the amount of Mr Js SIPP which was to be invested in GOP, and noted 
that the investment in GOP represented less than 10% of Mr Js overall SIPP. In my view, 
this was a further fair and reasonable step to take  particularly when considered 
alongside the High Net Worth Statement and the questions.
Overall it seems IPS made the decision to allow the investment in GOP in Mr Js SIPP 
on the reasonable understanding:
His regulated IFA was involved in the transaction, and there was no reason to 
be concerned about that IFA.
Mr J met the definition of a high net worth investor, and he and his IFA agreed to 
him being categorised as such.
Mr J had taken steps to understand the investment and its risks, and understood 
the role of IPS.
Mr J was investing a small portion of an already established SIPP, which 
was otherwise conventionally invested.And so I think a fair and reasonable amount of caution was exercised here and, in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint, it was fair and reasonable to allow the 
investment in GOP. So, all in all, I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
that IPS should not have accepted Mr Js application to invest in GOP.
Responses to my provisional decision
IPS accepted my provisional decision, and made no further comments. 
Mr Js representative did not accept my provisional decision. It said, in summary: 
The decision does not take into account fully the failure of IPS as the SIPP operator, 
in particular in the duty to carry out a thorough due diligence exercise on GOP before 
allowing Mr J to invest in a high-risk product.
IPS had failed in its duty to carry out proper due diligence on GOP. It does not agree 
with the suggestion that because IPS reviewed the GOP Brochure, the Company 
Information Pack and asked GOP limited questions it has complied with its due 
diligence obligations. 
Due to its omissions, IPS were unable to recognise that this investment was not 
genuine and a total scam. 
It is obvious that IPS had not fully understood the nature of the investment and the 
risk involved before allowing the client to include GOP investment as part of his 
SIPP. IPS concluded that the investment was a land investment. But the evidence 
clearly demonstrates that this was not a land transaction at all. Had the IPS 
undertaken adequate due diligence it should have reached this conclusion and wouId 
not have allowed Mr J to invest.
Any competent attempt at due diligence by IPS (or an independent third party) would 
have come to the same conclusion as the administrator's report dated 5 June 2013, 
namely that "to date, these supplementary products have not generated revenue and 
there are material uncertainties as to whether these are capable of generating 
significant net revenue"
My decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not seen sufficient evidence to show that an appropriate level of due diligence, 
carried out at the time of Mr Js application to invest in GOP, would have revealed GOP 
was not genuine, and a total scam as Mr Js representative suggests. I remain of the 
view set out in my provisional findings. I think there were points of concern which should 
have been apparent at the time  but not to the extent that it ought to have been 
concluded the investment was not genuine. And there should have been some 
independent verification of things. But I remain of the view that would not have led to the 
conclusion, in the circumstances of this particular case, GOP should not have been 
allowed in Mr Js SIPP at all.  
I note the quote from the administrators report referred to by Mr Js representative. But 
that seems to me to be an assessment of how the investment had performed. And the 
possibility of poor performance  or that fact the investment was high risk - were not sufficient reason, in themselves, in the circumstances of this case, to conclude GOP 
should not have been allowed in Mr Js SIPP at all.  As set out above, IPS gave Mr J risk 
warnings and checked his understanding of the risk. And it took a number of other steps, 
as summarised in the conclusion of my provisional findings, quoted above. 
So, having taken account of the points raised by Mr Js representative in its response to 
my provisional decision, I remain of the view set out in my provisional decision. The 
provisional findings Ive quoted above are therefore confirmed as my final findings.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman