DRN-2415341
The complaint
Mr B complains that Pockit Limited wont refund disputed transactions made from his 
account.
What happened
Mr B had an account with Pockit.
He says that he didnt authorise two payments made to a satellite TV provider Ill call N, 
made in December 2019 and May 2020. Mr B first contacted Pockit after the second 
payment of just over £80, advising them that he hadnt authorised the payment to N. On 
reviewing his statement Mr B later raised the £25 payment also made to N in 
December 2019. 
Mr B explained to Pockit that he hadnt signed up for any services with N, and thought that 
his sister had completed the payments without his consent. 
Pockit investigated the disputed transactions but didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They 
thought it likely Mr B had signed up to a free trial with N and therefore authorised the 
transactions. 
As Mr B didnt agree with Pockits decision, he asked our service to investigate. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt that Mr B had 
provided a plausible explanation for how the transactions had been carried out without his 
knowledge or authority. Therefore our investigator recommended that the transactions were 
refunded plus 8% from the date of the transactions to the date they are refunded. 
Pockit didnt accept our investigators findings. In response they said:
As Mr B admitted to lending his card to his sister hes breached the terms and 
conditions of his account and therefore acted with negligence. And isnt due a refund. 
As Pockit didnt accept our investigators conclusion its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Pockit can hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Ive asked Pockit to provide technical evidence that Mr Bs card details were used to make 
the disputed transactions, however this has only been provided for one transaction. Even for 
the one transaction thats been provided the relevant regulations, Payment Service 
Regulations 2017, say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Pockit to hold him liable. So I 
also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that 
Mr B consented to the transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its fair for Pockit to conclude that Mr B authorised the 
transactions. This is because:
Pockit have been unable to provide evidence that Mr Bs card details were used to 
make both disputed transactions. 
Pockit have argued that as Mr B allowed his sister to use his card with his consent, 
hes liable for the disputed transactions. However, Mr B advises this isnt the case  
and instead his sister gained access to his card, without his consent, when acting as 
his carer. Im satisfied this is a plausible explanation for how Mr Bs card details were 
compromised. 
Pockit initially argued that Mr B signed up for a free trial with N  but they failed to 
provide any evidence to support this argument. They havent contacted N to obtain 
the personal details used to sign up to the potential trial or provided any other 
documentation from N to support this argument. 
Mr B hasnt made any previous payments to N via his Pockit account. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above on balance I dont think Mr B authorised the disputed 
transactions. 
Putting things right
Ill be asking Pockit to refund Mr Bs transactions plus 8% from the date of the transactions 
to the date of settlement 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Pockit Limited to:
Refund Mr B £106.94 plus 8% from the date of the disputed transactions to the date 
they are refunded. 
Any tax lawfully due on the interest may be deducted if needs be, with the bank providing a  
tax deduction certificate to Mr B so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman