DRN-2841616
The complaint
Mr C complains Metro Bank PLC told him he was having problems receiving one-time 
passcodes (an OTP) because of his mobiles signal when that wasnt the case. He also 
complains he spent a lot of time speaking to Metro PLC before the problem was resolved.
What happened
Mr C opened an account with Metro Bank and downloaded Metro Banks mobile banking 
app. Shortly afterwards, he stopped receiving OTPs meaning he couldnt use Metro Banks 
mobile banking app. He called Metro Bank twice about this  spending over an hour on the 
phone  to try and get the problems resolved. Following an investigation by its IT 
department, Metro Bank wrote back to Mr C to say that hed not been receiving OTPs 
because his mobile phone hadnt been connected to the network at the time. In other words, 
Metro Bank said the problems he was having were down to his mobile phones network 
signal rather than anything at its end.
Mr C was unhappy with Metro Banks response, saying that the members of staff hed 
spoken to heard him receiving SMSs whilst he was on the phone to them  so it wasnt true 
that he was having problems with his network. He was also unhappy that Metro Banks 
response didnt say that it had managed to resolve his issues  the problems he was having 
receiving OTPs stopped shortly after he complained. Finally, he was unhappy that Metro 
Bank didnt call him back when it said it would do so.
Metro Bank investigated further and offered Mr C £5 in compensation for not calling back 
when it said it would. Mr C suggested £10 compensation would be more appropriate. Metro 
Bank agreed to increase its offer and Mr C accepted compensation for that part of his 
complaint. He then complained to us about the rest of Metro Banks response.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and said that they didnt think Metro 
Bank had acted fairly. They said that it was clear Mr C hadnt received the OTPs when Metro 
Bank had sent them  and that hed only received them after a considerable delay by which 
point they were no longer of use. They said that this was an issue for Metro Bank, and that 
they ought to offer Mr C an alternative way of authenticating that didnt rely on a mobile 
phone and pay him £50 in compensation to reflect the inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr C was happy with our investigators recommendations. Metro Bank wasnt  it said that it 
had shown it had sent OTPs to Mr C and that it couldnt be responsible if something went 
wrong after that. Our investigator disagreed, so Metro Bank asked for an ombudsman to look 
into this complaint. Thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C started having problems with his Metro Bank account shortly after he opened it. He 
stopped receiving OTPs meaning he couldnt log into his account or make payments using 
Metro Banks mobile banking app. He spoke to two members of staff at Metro Bank  who 
hes said provided excellent service  for around an hour about this. He checked his mobile 
was working whilst doing so by getting a third party to send him several SMSs. Everyone 
appears to accept that the SMSs the third party sent can be heard arriving during the calls. 
The second member of staff recommended Metro Banks IT department investigate further.
Metro Banks IT department investigated and said that the OTPs were being sent out 
correctly but werent being received until much later  and that theyd all been received in a 
short space of time. Metro Banks IT department concluded, based on this, that Mr Cs 
mobile phone hadnt been connected to the network at the time. I dont think that was an 
unreasonable conclusion. Equally, I agree with Mr C that the fact that he was able to receive 
SMSs from a third party whilst he was on the phone to Metro Bank suggests otherwise. I 
can, therefore, understand why he was unhappy with Metro Banks response as he didnt 
believe the problems were to do with his network signal.
Metro Bank fixed the problems Mr C was having receiving OTPs shortly after he complained. 
Metro Bank didnt, however, let Mr C know that it had done so when it replied to his 
complaint. He found out shortly afterwards. I might have expected Metro Bank to have 
questioned whether or not its IT department had got to the bottom of the problem had Metro 
Bank not already fixed the problems Mr C was having. But I wouldnt necessarily expect 
Metro Bank to do so once it had fixed the problem. In the circumstances, the only thing I 
think Metro Bank did wrong in this case was not letting Mr C know sooner that it had 
resolved the problem. That meant he was more frustrated that he needed to be. 
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that Metro Bank pay Mr C an additional £50 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience he was caused  albeit for different reasons. I dont think 
that this is an unfair outcome, and I do think that Metro Bank could have handled this issue 
better. So thats the award Im going to make, albeit for different reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr C £50 in compensation in full 
and final settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman