DRN-2462234
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Equifax Limited trading as Equifax recorded inaccurate information on 
his credit file. He wants the entry removed and compensation.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
 Equifax is a credit reference agency. It reports data that is provided to it by financial and 
other businesses or which is available as a matter of public record.
 As it doesnt create or own the data it reports, Equifax cant simply amend information it 
holds. Here it had received and recorded information from a business Ill refer to as EUK. 
Mr Y challenged the accuracy of this information.
 Upon receipt of Mr Ys complaint Equifax raised a dispute with EUK. And EUK responded 
to the dispute. Equifax realised that not all relevant documentation had been supplied so it 
re-raised the dispute. This time ensuring the documentation had been supplied. EUK again 
responded. The effect of the response was that Mr Y should contact EUK to discuss the 
subject matter of his complaint which apparently related to an entry linked to a utility supply.
 But crucially when it replied, EUK didnt give Equifax permission to amend or remove the 
entry. So Equifax left it unchanged. As it followed the correct procedure and raised the 
complaint with EUK, I dont think Equifax did anything wrong.
 Equifax has its own policy about whether or not disputes are kept open if a consumer 
remains dissatisfied with its response and takes further steps to advance their complaint.
Its not my role to instruct a business as to the policies it adopts. And as each of the various 
credit reference agencies has a separate policy its to be expected that there will be different 
approaches. 
 If Mr Y remains of the view that EUK is supplying inaccurate data relating to him to the 
credit reference agencies it remains open to him to pursue that matter with EUK.
I find that Equifax has acted fairly in the circumstances of this complaint. I shant ask it to do 
anything more. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman