DRN-3021451
The complaint
Mr W and the estate of Mrs W complain that Nottingham Building Society insisted on a Grant 
of Probate being produced to allow account access. 
What happened
Mr W says Nottingham insisted on a Grant of Probate (GoP) being produced to access Mrs 
Bs account which contained about £50,000. He says the GoP costs £215 and is 
unnecessary in this case. Mr W would like Nottingham to pay for it, if it insists on requiring it 
and says it hasnt treated its customer fairly. He also says Nottingham gave him inconsistent 
information about the GoP threshold and says a letter was amended when the wrong 
threshold was given. Mr W is represented by his son but for the sake of convenience I will 
refer to this complaint as being brought by Mr W.
Nottingham says it requires a GoP for amounts held in an account over £15,000. It accepts 
in one letter to Mr W it referred to a different figure but says he had been told the correct 
figure in any event. Nottingham doesnt accept making a mistake.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Nottingham was entitled to set the threshold for requiring, as in this case a GoP, and 
its terms and conditions set that amount at £15,000. In those circumstances the investigator 
didnt think Nottingham had made a mistake or acted unfairly.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and in summary says the investigator has omitted facts such 
as the offer of an indemnity to Nottingham and that it initially told him a solicitors letter would 
be acceptable. He also says Nottingham tried to pass the issue to a third-party legal services 
firm and says it didnt check its customers vulnerabilities. Mr W says Nottingham should at 
least commit to improving staff training and says he was given three different versions of 
evidence needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place and the process involved. I make clear to Mr W that, as he knows, we 
are not Nottinghams regulator and so it is not our role to direct it to change its process or 
increase the level at which, as in this case, it requires a GoP. For that same reason I cant 
fairly direct Nottingham commit to training or re-training its staff on any of the issues Mr W 
has raised. And I cant comment on any new complaint points raised such as the information 
Mr W was given when he submitted the GoP.
Im satisfied having looked at Nottinghams terms and conditions on the GoP threshold that it 
as in this case requires a GoP for an account value of £15,000 or more. So, I dont think 
Nottingham made a mistake or acted unfairly by requesting a GoP here when the account 
value was about £50,000. I appreciate Mr W offered to sign an indemnity and that the 
intention was that the account remains open. But I dont think that is relevant and find that 
its up to Nottingham to decide upon these matters when exercising its commercial 
judgement and is not something I can fairly interfere in.
I appreciate that Mr W says a discretion could have been applied and that Nottingham didnt 
treat a customer fairly. I have made clear that I think its up to a bank or building society to 
exercise discretion if it wishes to do so and that is not something I can direct as clearly that 
would no longer be a discretion. I have not seen any evidence that Nottingham has treated 
its customer unfairly and am satisfied it applied its own rules. I dont think it matters what 
other banks or building societies would do or if their thresholds vary.
I accept Nottingham sent Mr W a letter containing a mistake about the threshold. I dont think 
that mistake had any significance or impact as I think Mr W was aware at that stage what 
Nottinghams position was and in any event the mistake was corrected within a short time 
period.
I appreciate Mr W may have been given incorrect information initially about the requirements 
and that he may not have appreciated being directed to a third-party legal firm. I appreciate 
Mr Ws frustration and concern about that, but I dont think that was the main complaint here. 
And I dont think it had any real impact. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Nottingham followed its rules and procedures on the GoP 
requirement. And that it fairly explained that to Mr W. I hope Mr W appreciates the areas of 
his complaint that I cant make any recommendations or findings on. I also think this brings 
an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and the 
estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman