DRN-2406557
The complaint
Miss R complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt help her when she asked it to 
make a chargeback request for a hotel room she was very disappointed with.
What happened
Miss R said she booked a hotel, but the accommodation when she arrived wasnt
acceptable. She wanted Nationwide to help her get her money back.
Miss R sent us evidence of a hotel room booking for 1 double room with garden view for 17
nights. She said shed confirmed since then that the hotel could supply a twin room, in a
quiet part of the complex, and received confirmation of both points through the booking
website and by email. She said that when she arrived, and paid, she was given a roadside
bungalow, which was the loudest at the complex. And there were no twin beds.
Miss R said she spoke to reception. They said the hotel was fully booked, that was the only
room available, and there would be no twin room until 7 days later. Miss R said she booked
another hotel and moved out after one night.
Miss R wanted Nationwide to give her back the money she spent on this hotel room, aside
from the first nights stay, which she did use. But she said it had refused to do that, so she
complained to our service when it said no. Miss R has told us that she has since lost her job 
and was relying on the money from this refund. She has also provided us with information 
about how this has affected her.
Nationwide said that it had paid Miss R a total of £150 due to service failings, including
delays in dealing with the dispute, and failing to provide a call back when offered. But it didnt
think it had made a mistake by turning down Miss Rs chargeback request.
Nationwide said that Miss R had booked a double room with garden view, not a twin room.
And the booking was non-refundable. Nationwide said that this dispute didnt meet the card
scheme operators criteria, and would be declined. So it said it couldnt help any further.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint shouldve been upheld. She said it wasnt wrong
for Nationwide not to go ahead with the chargeback, because she said the prospects for
success were low. Miss Rs booking with the hotel was non-refundable.
Our investigator didnt think that Miss Rs request for a twin room instead of a double had
actually changed the conditions of her booking, and this is something that Nationwide would
have had to consider.
Our investigator also thought the hotel wouldve contested the chargeback. It could show it
had tried to accommodate her request and was willing to offer a different room.
Our investigator thought the offer Nationwide made for poor service was fair.
Miss R didnt agree. She said shed booked a garden room, and hadnt been given that. And
the hotel had only offered to move her into a garden room (as shed originally booked) after
7 days of the 17 day stay that she had booked. Miss R said that she wanted an ombudsman
to consider her complaint, and she was also considering legal action.
Our investigator said Miss R had booked a garden view room, not a room in the garden. And
because she then asked for twin beds, she had been offered a bungalow, which was both
larger and more expensive, at no extra cost. When she was unhappy with this, she was
offered larger accommodation. That offer was for the next day, not 7 days later. And our
investigator said we also needed to remember that this booking was non-refundable.
Our investigator said that its the card scheme operator, whose symbol is on Miss Rs card,
who runs the chargeback scheme and sets the rules for it. Those rules mean that a refund
is not an automatic right or guaranteed.
Nationwide has to follow those rules. And under the rules of the chargeback process, our
investigator said she couldnt say that Miss Rs chargeback would have been successful, or
that Nationwide was wrong to not have presented it.
Our investigator explained that our service cant advise Miss R on court action.
Miss R said the room our investigator thought shed got was nothing like the room she was
actually given. And the problem was the proximity to the road, not the size. She disputed that
shed been offered a different room the next day. She said that offer wasnt until 7 January at
the earliest, and perhaps not even then. The room she was in was on the road, with no
proper roof, no sofa, no twin beds. She said this room had received particularly poor
reviews.
Our investigator didnt change her mind, so this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Miss R wanted Nationwide to make a chargeback request for her. As our investigator
explained, that request is made to the card scheme operator, whose symbol is on 
Miss Rs card. The rules are set by the card scheme operator. Nationwide cant 
change those rules.
The rules only allow chargebacks to be made in certain circumstances. And 
customers dont have a legal right to insist a chargeback request is made. A bank will 
check the evidence its given, to see if it fits within the rules. If it doesnt, then the 
request may not be made. Making a chargeback request isnt free, the bank pays for 
that, and it doesnt pass that direct cost on to customers. So I think its reasonable for 
a bank not to go ahead with a request, where it can see that the request is very 
unlikely to succeed. And I think thats what happened in this case. Ill explain why I 
think that.
Nationwide asked Miss R for evidence of the room she booked. Miss R says that 
shed booked a garden room. She told us that shed later confirmed that it was in a 
quiet area, and the hotel would offer twin beds.
Miss R says she no longer has access to the messages which confirmed this. Thats
unfortunate, but its not Nationwides fault. It can only work with the evidence that 
Miss R is able to give it. Miss R sent us screenshots of her booking. The confirmation of her reservation 
doesnt show twin beds were confirmed by the hotel. There is then a message which 
includes the phrase 2 single beds if possible please. That message also informs the 
hotel of the proposed check in time, and asks about the airport shuttle service. The 
reply is headed Check-in time  approved and says, in full we are pleased to let 
you know that the accommodation has confirmed they will be able to arrange this for 
you. There will be no extra charge for this request. There is, unfortunately, no clarity 
about which of the three points mentioned in the outgoing message this single 
confirmation replies to. So Nationwide didnt have written confirmation that the hotel 
had agreed to provide Miss R with twin beds.
Miss R also said shed confirmed with the hotel that her room would be in a quiet 
area. I havent seen any messages that show this. So Nationwide didnt have written 
confirmation that the hotel had agreed that Miss Rs room would be in a quiet area.
That means that Nationwide didnt have any proof that the room Miss R got wasnt in 
line with her booking.
Miss R said the room she was given wasnt suitable because it was close to a busy 
road, so it was extremely noisy, and it only had a large double bed, not the twin beds 
she wanted.
Miss R sent us a receipt for the alternative accommodation she booked. Our 
investigator thought that had been booked before Miss R had discussed the problem 
with the hotel. Miss R said that the time stamps were all wrong, because she was 
overseas. But even if that is the case, I can see two sets of messages which Miss R 
exchanged with hotel staff.
In the first set of messages, someone from the hotel offers a different, larger 
bungalow, available the next day, and then an apartment for the remainder of her 
stay. Miss R turns that down, she says she wouldnt want to move twice and doesnt 
want a bungalow. As part of that exchange, she confirms she has already booked 
another apartment.
The second set of messages says Miss R is asking for a refund for all except the first 
night. The manager says that he will speak to the owners about a refund, but they 
arent available immediately. The manager says I think I can find a solution and give 
you an apartment tomorrow but Miss R refuses this, as she says she doesnt want to 
spend another night in the first accommodation she was given. As part of this 
exchange, Miss R again confirms that she has already booked another apartment.
The hotel didnt refuse to provide Miss R with services altogether. Miss R just said 
the room wasnt what she had booked.
For Nationwide to process a chargeback request, it wouldve had to fit this into one of 
the card scheme operators categories. The only suitable category is not as 
described or defective merchandise/services.
So the rules set out that Nationwide would have to show The Cardholder disputes 
the quality of the merchandise or services received. And it would also have to show 
that Miss R had tried to resolve this with the hotel.
Nationwide couldnt show that the room was simply not the one Miss R booked, 
because theres unfortunately no evidence Nationwide could send to the card scheme operator, to show that she booked a twin room or a room in a quiet area. 
And Nationwide couldnt show that Miss R had made efforts to resolve this with the 
hotel, because the evidence Miss R has sent us says that she had already reserved 
different accommodation elsewhere before discussing this with the hotel.
For those reasons, I think that this chargeback was very unlikely to succeed. And that 
means that it isnt unfair or unreasonable for Nationwide not to put the chargeback 
forward for Miss Rs card scheme operator to consider. I dont think Nationwide has 
to do anything more about this part of Miss Rs complaint.
There is a second, smaller part to Miss Rs complaint. Nationwide did make mistakes 
in handling this chargeback. It has acknowledged those, and paid Miss R a total of 
£150 in compensation. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think that has 
affected the chances of Miss Rs chargeback being successful. So I think that the 
payment of £150 Nationwide has made is enough to provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this part of Miss Rs complaint.
I appreciate that Miss R will be deeply disappointed, but I dont think her complaint 
should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Nationwide didnt reply. Miss R sent a substantive reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R said she wanted to dispute what Id said, because she felt that the information Id set 
out contained false and untrue statements. She said the case needed to be looked at again. 
Miss R was concerned the dates and time stamps on the evidence she had sent us, of 
receipts and messages to the hotel, were all incorrect. She said that happened because she 
was overseas, and she was concerned this was making her look like a liar. She said she had 
tried to get the message log from the hotel booking website with no luck. It was gone with no 
way to recover it. 
Before I look at each of the examples Miss R has given us, where she says Ive gone wrong, 
Id like to set out what I think is key in this case. For Nationwide to make a chargeback for 
Miss R, and for that chargeback to stand a good chance of success, it needs to be able to 
send the card scheme operator written evidence which supports what she says. 
So I have to look at the written evidence that Miss R has, and see if that makes clear that:
- she didnt get what she had booked, and 
- shed tried to sort that out with the hotel before booking alternative accommodation. 
If Nationwide cant provide written evidence on those points, then Miss Rs chargeback 
would be extremely unlikely to succeed.
I know Miss R said this case needed to be looked at again. So Ive reconsidered all of the 
evidence that Miss R has sent us. And unfortunately, I still dont think that written evidence 
does support what shes said. This doesnt mean that I think Miss R is lying to Nationwide, or 
to us. It just means theres a gap in her evidence, where there isnt anything in writing that 
can back up what she says.Miss R has told us she cant get evidence of the messages she sent from the hotel booking 
website. When I wrote my provisional decision, I said I appreciated Miss R had told us some 
evidence just wasnt available to her now, to support her chargeback request. I do 
understand how frustrating this must be for her. But that does limit what Nationwide can do 
to help her. And its not Nationwides fault if the hotel booking website doesnt keep its 
messages. Theres nothing Nationwide can do about that. 
Ill now look at each of the examples Miss R gave in her response to my provisional decision. 
Miss R mentioned I said Nationwide didnt have written confirmation that the hotel had 
agreed to provide Miss R with twin beds. Miss R sent us a reply from the hotel saying her 
request was confirmed. She said we could see that single beds were requested by private 
messaging system and the hotel confirmed two single beds. But I cant see that. I can see 
that she made some requests, including for single beds. I can see a confirmation from the 
hotel. But, as I set out in my provisional decision, I cant see what that confirmation is for. 
The reply doesnt include the message she sent. So theres nothing Nationwide can use to 
show that the hotel had actually agreed to provide two single beds. 
Miss R also said that the quiet garden view room was also visible on the initial booking 
confirmation. But unfortunately I cant see that in the initial booking. The room she booked is 
simply listed as 1 double room with garden view. Theres no mention of quiet.
That doesnt mean Miss R didnt get the confirmation she claims. That may have been in the 
messages she says are missing. But unfortunately that means theres nothing in writing that 
proves this, which could be used by Nationwide to support her chargeback request.
Miss R said that she wanted to dispute that the alternative accommodation had been booked
before she had discussed the problem with the hotel. Miss R has told us that the time 
stamps on the messages and receipts were all wrong, because she was overseas. Id said 
that, even if the time stamps were wrong, I could still see two sets of messages which Miss 
R exchanged with hotel staff, where they suggested possible alternatives and Miss R said 
she had already booked somewhere else. 
Miss R said that wasnt right, her alternative accommodation was booked after trying to 
resolve the problems with the hotel. She told us she had spoken to the receptionist, the hotel 
manager and then someone else. She told us they all said the same, that the hotel was non-
refundable and they only offered to move her on 7 January. Which would mean staying in 
the unsuitable room for 7 days
As part of this, Miss R told us she didnt book her alternative accommodation until the day 
after she arrived. Miss R said shed arrived at the unsuitable hotel on 31 December, and we 
could clearly see the alternative accommodation was booked the next day. The time stamp 
for the new hotel booking was 1 January 3:14am. And she said the place she was staying 
was six hours behind the UK, so 3:14am local time would be 9:14am UK time. 
I note that when Miss R wrote to Nationwide about this complaint, she said she  booked 
another hotel on the SAME DAY (31st December 2019) and moved out of [the disputed 
accommodation] on the 1st January 2020. (This is taken from Miss Rs letter of claim to 
Nationwide.) I think that matches with the time stamps Miss R has shown us. Ill explain why 
I think that.
Miss Rs booking for her original hotel starts on 31 December. The booking for the 
alternative accommodation she found says it was made on 1 January, at 3.13am. I think that 
time stamp is likely to be either UK time or the local time where Miss R was staying. Theres 
nothing on the receipt to tell us which it is. But the time difference between the UK and where Miss R was staying is five hours, not the 
six hours Miss R mentions. And I think its the local time which is important, when Im 
considering what happened here. 
The discussions Miss R had about her accommodation were in the evening of 31 December, 
local time, and the morning of 1 January, local time. So we need to know when she booked 
her alternative accommodation, in local time.
If the receipt Miss R showed us for her alternative accommodation was in local time, then 
she booked at 3.13am in the early hours of the morning of 1 December, on the first night of 
her stay.
But if the time of the receipt is 3:13am UK time, and the local time when she made her 
booking is five hours behind the UK, that would mean that the local time of her booking 
would be 10.13pm on 31 January on the first night of her stay. 
Because Miss R has previously said that she booked the alternative accommodation on the 
first day she arrived, I think its likely that she made this booking at 10.13pm local time, on 31 
January. 
Miss R has written evidence that she had raised her concerns with the hotel, dated 31 
December and 1 January. That written evidence suggests that the hotel was still trying to 
sort out other options on 1 January. Thats why I said that the hotel would be very likely to 
argue that it was still trying to sort this issue out for Miss R when she left.
And the written evidence Miss R has shown us supports that argument, even if what the staff 
were saying at the time didnt. Because of that, I dont think that her chargeback case 
wouldve been upheld. 
Miss R noted that Id said in my provisional decision that Nationwide couldnt show that the 
room was simply not the one Miss R booked, because theres unfortunately no evidence 
Nationwide could send to the card scheme operator, to show that she booked a twin room or 
a room in a quiet area. And Nationwide couldnt show that Miss R had made efforts to 
resolve this with the hotel, because the evidence Miss R has sent us says that she had 
already reserved different accommodation elsewhere before discussing this with the hotel.
Miss R said that was disproved by the booking confirmation for her alternative 
accommodation, which showed she hadnt made her booking until after 9am on 1 January. 
Miss R also told us again why the accommodation was so unsuitable. And she said that the 
hotel had made promises but then come back and said it couldnt do anything until after 8 
January. 
As Ive said, I think its the local time which is relevant, when were considering when Miss R 
made her second booking. I do think its fair to say that Miss R is likely to have raised her 
concerns with the hotel the night before. But Ive also explained that I think that if Nationwide 
had pursued this chargeback request, the hotel could point to messages where it was still 
trying to offer alternatives, and Miss R refused, saying she had already found alternative 
accommodation. For this reason, I still think her chargeback request was unlikely to 
succeed. And that means I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong when it didnt process 
this request for her.
Ive reviewed this case carefully and in full. I know Miss R will be disappointed, but I still 
dont think it should be upheld.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman