DRN-3127136
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to decline her claim.  
What happened
Mrs G has income protection insurance with Unum through her employer. In June 2019 she 
began experiencing symptoms of anxiety and depression. She was admitted to hospital the 
same month following high blood pressure and heart palpitations which were also attributed 
to anxiety and panic attacks. Mrs G said that she was too unwell to work and was signed off 
by her GP. Following the 26-week deferral period required by her policy, Mrs G claimed on 
her insurance but was declined by Unum. 
Unum said that there wasnt enough medical evidence to say that she was suffering from a 
mental health condition that would preclude her from working. It said Mrs Gs symptoms 
were related to workplace and life stressors and that stress isnt considered a medical 
condition. It acknowledged that shed been under the care of a psychologist and attended 
regular counselling sessions, however, its own psychiatrist said that the medical evidence 
wasnt persuasive enough because there wasnt a clear diagnosis of a mental health 
condition, or a clear rationale for why Mrs G was being treated for anxiety and depression. 
Our investigator didnt agree with Unum and so she upheld her complaint. She explained 
that there was enough persuasive medical evidence that showed Mrs G had been 
incapacitated throughout the whole of the deferral period. She also highlighted that Mrs G 
was prescribed antidepressant medication, which was increased during that time. She also 
said that she was more persuaded by the contemporaneous medical evidence like the GPs 
notes, the occupational health specialists reports and the psychologists reports, all of which 
concluded that Mrs G was too unwell to work owing to her poor mental health. 
But Unum still disagreed for the reasons explained. It said that provided Mrs Gs 
psychologist was able to provide a further, more detailed rationale about the method used to 
diagnose Mrs Gs mental health conditions, then itd reconsider its position on her claim. And 
so, its now for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it for broadly the same reasons already explained by 
our investigator. I think theres enough persuasive medical evidence to say that Mrs G was 
suffering from several mental health conditions that prevented her from working. Im satisfied 
her symptoms were so debilitating that she was unable to work, or complete basic daily 
tasks, like getting herself washed and dressed without support from her close family 
members. I say that because theres enough contemporaneous medical evidence, from 
independent medical professionals, that reaffirm Mrs Gs symptoms of anxiety, depression 
and panic attacks were the fundamental underlying conditions that precluded her from 
working. I acknowledge Unums psychiatrists comments and the way they have been relied 
upon to decline her claim, but Im less persuaded by them and Id like to explain why.
Mrs Gs claim is relatively lengthy and so Id like to make clear that Ive considered whether 
Unums decision to decline it was fair. And so, Ive focussed on when Mrs Gs sickness 
absence began in June 2019, to when the 26-week deferral period ended. This is important 
because its for Mrs G to show, by way of medical evidence, that shed fulfilled the policy 
terms and met the definition of incapacity. To be clear, the policy terms say;
The policy provides a monthly benefit if the member is unable to work because of illness or 
injury for an agreed length of time.. Monthly benefit payments become payable when a 
members incapacity continues past the end of the deferment period
The policys definition of incapacity;
Insured occupation cover: A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied they are:
-Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of 
the insured occupation and are  not performing any occupation
material and substantial duties means the duties that are normally required for the 
performance of the members insured occupation and which cannot be reasonably omitted 
or modified. It is those duties required for the performance of the occupation at their, or any 
other employer
Ive carefully thought about the medical evidence presented during that time. The GPs notes 
are relatively limited and so I agree with Unum on that point. But theyre still relevant 
because they show that Mrs G began suffering with symptoms of anxiety and panic attacks 
from June 2019. They also say that she was prescribed antidepressant medication, which 
was quickly increased in strength because Mrs G was still experiencing severe symptoms 
related to her illnesses. 
I note Unums comments about Mrs G requesting her medication be increased and the 
suggestion that this was in some way less persuasive because shed effectively told the GP 
to increase it. But I disagree that this makes her testimony any less persuasive, or that her 
circumstances are any less credible because she effectively directed the GP and the 
intended treatment plan. I say that because Im satisfied the GP would have disagreed with 
her request had he not thought it safe, necessary or relevant. Instead, I think this further 
demonstrated that Mrs G was legitimately suffering with her symptoms and was in need of 
further medical treatment. The GPs notes also say that Mrs G was unfit to work throughout 
the deferred period and that she regularly discussed her illnesses with them and continued 
to take the prescribed medication during that time. 
Mrs G also had regularly discussed her conditions with her employers occupational health 
specialist whod also reported that during the deferred period she was medically unfit for 
work. Both these accounts are consistent that Mrs G was suffering with anxiety, depression 
and panic attacks. And so, for Unum to say that theres no evidence of an underlying 
medical condition is inconsistent with the contemporaneous medical evidence and therefore 
unfair. 
Unum also highlighted that during the deferred period, there was reference to Mrs G 
beginning to feel better and suggested she wasnt incapacitated the whole time. But I think 
the comments she made during her sessions have been taken out of context. I say that 
because Im satisfied comments made about this were in reference to how she felt more 
broadly since previous sessions. I also thought it worth highlighting that the treating 
psychologist said that Mrs Gs progress was slow but incremental. I thought it important to 
reflect on this as it acknowledges that whilst there was progress throughout her treatment, this wasnt overnight. I think it reasonable not to expect a linear journey with treatment. 
Im satisfied this demonstrated that Mrs G was engaging with treatment for her conditions 
and that she was addressing the underlying causes of her illnesses. And that there was, at 
times, progress being made  but not enough to persuasively say that she wasnt 
incapacitated. I say that because her medical conditions were always present during that 
time and to isolate her comments about feeling better over comparable weeks and interpret 
them the way Unum has is unfair in these particular circumstances. 
Mrs Gs psychologist wrote a letter to further explain why she believed that the decision to 
decline Mrs Gs claim was wrong. In her letter, the psychologist said that she agreed with the 
GPs diagnosis and that shed been treating Mrs G almost weekly for the last eight months. 
She explained that, in her medical opinion, Mrs G was unable to work because the 
symptoms of her illnesses were such that her decision-making abilities were severely 
impacted, as well as her concentration levels. As such she felt that, given Mrs Gs profession 
and the level of responsibilities required of her as a senior professional, it was too much for 
Mrs G to be able to meet those demands because of her underlying medical conditions. I 
should say that I found that to be more persuasive in the circumstances because Mrs Gs 
psychologist, being a relevant specialist and her level of expertise, consistently said that Mrs 
G was too unwell to work throughout the deferred period. 
I should also say that the psychologist assessed Mrs G face to face almost weekly and so 
was best placed to determine her readiness for work and so Im more persuaded by her 
professional medical opinion.
Unums psychiatrist disagreed with the opinions of all other medical professionals 
responsible for Mrs Gs care. Thats to say that he didnt think the treating GP, or 
psychologist, were correct in their respective diagnoses and instead, said that she was 
suffering with work-placed and life stresses. He also contested the psychologists letter in 
response to the declination of Mrs Gs claim. Unum relied on his testimony and said that 
because the psychologist hadnt explained the clinical method used to diagnose Mrs Gs 
conditions, that it was effectively not medically persuasive or to be considered. 
I thought this was concerning as it felt as though Unum was effectively saying that their 
medical opinions were unreliable because their notes didnt include this information. I think it 
would have been fairer for Unum to recognise the diagnosis and treatment administered in 
conjunction with the concurrent medical notes from her psychologist and Mrs Gs own 
testimony.  
The psychologists report details that Mrs G suffered from moderate to severe anxiety and 
depression, which Im satisfied should have been persuasive enough to show she was 
suffering from two medical conditions. Should Unum want to know more about Mrs Gs 
conditions, in the way suggested by its medical team, then it could consider an independent 
medical examination, or to speak directly with the Mrs Gs treating psychologist. Although I 
dont think it necessary here because theres enough medical evidence to say that Mrs G 
was too unwell to work because shes incapacitated. 
I wanted to acknowledge the desktop assessment completed by Unums medical team, but 
because the findings were too inconsistent with those of the medical professionals that 
physically and, at times remotely, treated Mrs G Im more persuaded by them in the 
circumstances. And so, because Mrs G was incapacitated throughout the deferred period, 
Unum must now pay her claim. I should also note that Mrs G returned to work on 16 
November 2020 on a phased basis, following the successful treatment of her depression and 
anxiety.        My final decision
My final decision is that Unum Limited should now pay Mrs Gs claim, plus 8% simple 
interest. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman