DRN-2931517
The complaint
Mrs Gs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Zurich Assurance Ltd.    
In summary, the CMC said:
Mrs G wasnt looking for life cover, she was only looking to save. 
Theres no evidence that her attitude to risk was established. 
The MIP wasnt an appropriate way for her to save.  
What happened
In May 2000, Mrs G was advised to invest £300 a month into the Maximum Investment Plan 
(MIP), which also provided £27,000 worth of life cover, which was a minimum requirement 
for qualifying tax purposes. Having considered the advice, Mrs G decided to proceed but 
with a £100 contribution a month. 
In 2010, the MIP matured, and Mrs G received £14,163. In 2020, the CMC complained on 
her behalf.  
Zurich consented to us considering the merits of this complaint but didnt uphold it. In 
summary, Zurich said:
Minimum life cover was included for qualifying tax purposes. 
The recommendation letter made clear that the MIP included equities and property.
Theres no evidence that Mrs G wasnt prepared to take a risk with her money, and 
no guarantees were given. 
Mrs G chose the MIP, even though there were other options available. She was 
made aware of the nature and operation of the investment.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The fact find, and assessment, was carried out in joint names with Mrs Gs husband 
 although the advice was only to her.
Mrs G had capacity to invest £100 a month, for the medium to long term, and it was 
affordable. 
oShe was in her mid-20s, married with a single dependent. 
oShe was employed and had a net (household) disposable monthly income of 
around £1,000. 
oShe had savings of around £10,000, with no planned expenditure.
oShe had some capacity to replace losses. 
The life cover element of the MIP wasnt unsuitable, given that she was married, had 
a mortgage and a financially dependent child. 
Mrs G had no investment experience. She was a first-time novice investor. She was 
advised to take too much risk:
oThe fund fact sheet showed the following asset allocation:
53.1% in UK Equities.
13.8% in European Equities. 
4.2% in Japanese Equites. 
3.2% in US Equities. 
3% in Pacific Equites excluding Japan. 
1% in Latin America
21.7% in Bonds, Gilts Property and cash.  
oThe recommendation to invest 78.3% in equites, for a first-time investor was 
unsuitable. Theres nothing to say why this met Mrs Gs attitude to risk. 
The disadvantages of the MIP  in terms of high risk  outweighed any advantages.
Overall, Mrs H was advised to take too much risk with this investment. Redress 
should therefore be based on the 50/50 benchmark  for half the investment: FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds  with 8% simple interest from the end date to the date of 
settlement. 
Zurich disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In summary, it said:
Its pleased the investigator agrees that Mrs G had capacity to invest, replace losses, 
and that the inclusion of life cover wasnt unsuitable. 
It doesnt agree that the MIP managed fund exposed Mrs G  as a first-time 
inexperienced investor  to too much risk. 
The recommendation was made 20 years ago, the standards of today shouldnt be 
applied to the sale. 
The recommendation wasnt considered unsuitable for a low-risk, medium to long 
term investor. In this instance the MIP managed fund  chosen by Mrs G  was 
suitable for her.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. He maintained that a recommendation with 78.3% in equities was unsuitable given 
Mrs Gs circumstances. In other words, notwithstanding the other points, her contributions 
were exposed to too much risk. 
 
Zurich disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
maintained that the MIP was suitable for her. In other words, a savings plan invested in 
equities was suitable for the medium to long term. Based on an extract from her 
recommendation letter, there was no suggestion that she was uncomfortable with the 
recommendation or risks involved.   
Zurich, having undertaken to provide further points for submission, confirmed that it had 
nothing further to add to its previous correspondence. It maintained the advice was suitable.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on balance I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same 
reasons.  On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Zurich says, I dont think the 
recommendation to invest in the MIP managed fund  with over 78% in equities  was 
suitable for Mrs G. 
Whilst I agree with the investigator that Mrs G was willing to take some risk with her money, 
had capacity to invest £100 a month (medium to long term), and had enough money put 
aside for emergencies, I still think she was advised to take too much risk with her monthly 
contribution.  
Notwithstanding what the CMC says, like the investigator, I dont think the inclusion of life 
cover rendered the recommendation unsuitable, given Mrs Gs circumstances  I note she 
was married, had a young child and a mortgage  and that there was a tax advantage which 
couldve been beneficial. 
On balance, I also dont think Mrs G was risk averse  in that I dont think she was unwilling 
to take any risk at all  however, I also note that there isnt a clear record of her attitude to 
risk. In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant safely say that there was a meaningful 
discussion around risk, or any discussion that would enable Mrs G to understand the risks 
involved. Therefore, I cant safely say that Mrs G was comfortable or content with the level of 
risk she was taking. 
I appreciate what Zurich says about the recommendation letter making clear to Mrs G that 
her plan would be invested in real assets such as equities and property on her behalf, and 
that the value of the plan was determined by the value of those assets  but I dont think that 
necessarily clarifies her attitude to risk as suggested by Zurich. I also dont think that Mrs G 
wouldve appreciated just how much the MIP managed fund was reliant on equities, and 
what that meant for her in terms of risk.  
Looking at Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, Im mindful that Zurich considered Mrs G and 
her husbands financial circumstances together, before making a recommendation for her to 
contribute £300 a month in the MIP, which she reduced to £100 to better reflect her own 
personal finances and affordability. Im mindful that her personal income was considerably 
less than her husbands, let alone collectively. Therefore, in the circumstances, and on 
balance, I think she was unlikely to be prepared to take as much risk, even with a £100 
contribution.
I appreciate Mrs G wouldve confirmed that she understood the risks involved, but on 
balance I think its more likely than not she wouldve done so, on advice. 
I appreciate that there are potentially several ways to calculate redress, having considered 
this issue in more detail, in this instance, given the date of the sale, I dont think the 
investigators recommendation for redress is unreasonable. 
Even though Ive decided that the inclusion of life cover didnt render the MIP unsuitable, Im 
still mindful the CMC says its not something Mrs G wanted, so in this instance Im not going 
to make any deductions for life cover.  
In the circumstances, I think Zurich should do the following: Calculate redress based on the 
50/50 benchmark  for half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index; for the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds  with 8% simple interest from 
the end date to the date of settlement.  
Putting things right
Zurich Assurance Ltd should do the following: Calculate redress based on the 50/50 benchmark  for half the investment: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from fixed rate 
bonds  with 8% simple interest from the end date to the date of settlement.   
My final decision
For reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.  
Zurich Assurance Ltd should calculate and pay redress as set out above.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman