DRN-3031655
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 1997 and 
in 2003. Mrs and Mr M say Bank of Scotland plc, trading at the time as Halifax, mis-sold 
them this PPI.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold it for either policy. However, they thought Halifaxs 
offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit share Mrs and Mr M paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs and Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt 
raise any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments 
theyd previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs and 
Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
Mrs and Mr M havent specifically alleged they didnt know about or agree to the PPI. Their 
complaint is based mainly around the information they were given and the suitability of the 
cover. Ive considered everything they have said with care.
The first PPI sale was in 1997 with a mortgage they were taking out. Although a joint 
mortgage, it seems only Mr M was covered by the PPI. Mrs M wasnt named on it. 
The second PPI policy was taken out in 2003, probably as a result of Mrs and Mr M re-
arranging their financial affairs and the PPI was part of a Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP). A TMPP was a type of protection policy which typically included PPI together with 
other features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover. The individual elements of the 
TMPP could be added or taken out as the consumer wished. Again, only Mr M was covered 
and Im only considering the PPI part here as part of the complaint.
I think Halifax made it clear enough that Mrs and Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out on both occasions. We still have access to the first signed PPI 
application form where Mrs and Mr M specifically applied for PPI to be added. And from what 
I know about the type of product in volved in the second sale (the TMPP), this strongly 
suggests the same consent was forthcoming from Mrs and Mr M to add this type of cover. 
As I say, theres no dispute that the PPI was sold or that it was agreed to, and in their 
complaint Mrs and Mr M recall being advised about what the PPI did and being sold the 
cover to help protect their mortgage against unemployment or illness. I think Halifax properly 
obtained their consent for both policies.
I then looked at suitability. Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr M as part of an 
advised sale on both occasions, so it had to check that the PPI was right for them. I think it 
was.
It appears Mr M was the higher earner and the evidence about Mrs and Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time, shows that the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable 
for them. For example, Mr M was eligible for the cover and although he may have enjoyed 
some sick pay with his job, this doesnt necessarily mean the policy, on either occasion, 
wasnt of use. The mortgage was secured against Mrs and Mr Ms home and the PPI would 
have paid out a monthly amount in the event of a successful claim. Firstly, this could have 
lasted for up to 12 months (the 1997 policy)  and then for up to 24 months (the 2003 
policy). This financial support would have been in addition to any other means they had at 
the time. Ive been told Mr M also had death in service benefit. I was sent no evidence of 
this, but even if he did have such cover and / or redundancy pay, these benefits dont conflict 
with having PPI, because this covered somewhat different eventualities. There was also 
nothing about Mr Ms employment which would have made it difficult for him to claim, in my 
view. 
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave to Mrs and Mr M about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it might have been. But I think they had enough information on which to make an 
informed decision. He and Mrs M met with a mortgage adviser and discussed the PPI on two 
separate occasions; this is confirmed by their own account and also the computerised 
records Halifax still has. In my view, the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what they probably 
thought they were buying from the information they were most likely given at the points of 
both sales. At £15 per month, reducing to £10 later, it also looks like it was affordable for 
them. So I dont think Mrs and Mr M would have declined the cover even if Halifax could 
have done a better job at explaining the two policies, particularly issues around the 
limitations or exclusions. Ive seen, for instance, that some rules may have applied to back 
pain or stress-related illnesses. But I dont think Mrs and Mr M would have expected to claim 
for these without at least providing some evidence, which is what the rules required. 
Mrs and Mr Ms representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs and Mr Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs and Mr Ms particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Halifax doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mrs and Mr M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policies; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mrs and Mr M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Halifax didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs and Mr M because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMrs and Mr Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on the complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs and Mr M should get back all the money paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mrs and Mr M about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs and Mr M wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs and Mr M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the 
high level of commission before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs and Mr Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs and Mr M paid for the PPI policies. I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs and Mr M with the type 
of cover Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if Halifax had done everything 
it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.So I consider that Halifaxs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policies costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
I do not uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mrs and Mr M an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the cost (plus associated interest where applicable). It 
looks to me as if this has already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman