DRN-4072927
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs S complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled and settled a claim they 
made on their buildings insurance policy.
AXA are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Much of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As AXA have accepted they are accountable for the 
actions of their agents, in my decision, any reference to AXA should be interpreted as also 
covering the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr K, Mrs S and AXA. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr K and Mrs S had a buildings insurance policy with AXA. In June 2021, they had an 
escape of water and made a claim against their policy. AXA accepted the claim and 
ultimately settled the claim around October 2022.
Mr K and Mrs S made a complaint to AXA as they were generally unhappy with the service 
theyd received whilst the complaint had been ongoing, the settlement (specifically issues 
relating to their kitchen replacement and a Velux window) and the overall impact on them 
given their personal and family circumstances.
AXA issued a final response letter in May 2022. In this letter they apologised for the issues 
relating to only initially partially replacing the kitchen and any inconvenience caused by how 
they handled the claim. They said that they wouldnt be replacing the Velux window as there 
was no evidence that the damage to it was claim related. They offered £100 compensation 
overall. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr K and Mrs S referred their complaint to our Service for an 
independent review. Our Investigator most recently recommended that AXA didnt need to 
do anything further and didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr K and Mrs S disputed, the 
complaint has now been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service as a not for profit, 
alternative dispute resolution scheme. For example, both parties are already aware that 
these events have been going on for an extensive amount of time  over two years and Ive 
only summarised the key points of the background earlier in my decision. 
I also want to make it crystal clear to AXA that under the relevant DISP rules (DISP 1.6) 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/1/6.html?date=2005-01-14 (which they are 
obliged to operate under), they are expected to co-operate fully with our Service. When this 
complaint was referred to our Service, AXA seemingly sent every document and report (over 
1500 pages) they had on their complaint file  whether they were relevant or not. Our 
Investigator made a very reasonable request to AXA to send a concise file with the relevant 
documents - but this request was refused. The core issues that this complaint raises are 
straightforward and not uncommon in this type of claim, but AXA has avoidably over 
complicated things when providing excessive evidence that has little to no relevance to the 
subject matter of this complaint. However, in the interests of completeness I have reviewed 
all the evidence submitted but I wont make reference to all of it - as its simply not relevant.
Ive noted both parties responses to our Investigators assessments and the main point of 
contention that remains now is whether or not AXA should replace the Velux window in 
question. 
In my decision, my role isnt to establish how exactly the loss (the issues with the window) 
came to be, but to consider whether AXA have fairly investigated and considered this part of 
the claim before declining it.
Mr K and Mrs S have said that the damage being claimed for is as a result of condensation 
and that there was no evidence of mould or other damage noted in February 2021 (prior to 
the claim event). Theyve provided two expert opinions  one from an independent third 
party company dated March 2023 and an earlier opinion dated November 2022 from the 
engineer whod attended to rectify a separate issue related to glazing in February 2021. AXA 
also provided various opinions from their inhouse experts. 
The earlier opinion from 2022 stated:
At the time of the work being carried out and the inspection that followed, there was 
no mould on the window frame and no further attention was needed to the window at 
that time other than the glazing replacement.
Ive placed some weight on this opinion, but kept in mind no photos or supporting evidence 
have been submitted to back this up. Ive placed more weight on the more recent report from 
the independent third party expert. Although this is new evidence (that wasnt available at 
the time of this part of the claim being declined) Ive considered it is relevant to my 
consideration - particularly given how long this claim has been going on for and its also 
been shared with AXA. Of importance here are points 9 and 10 in the report:
9. The mould penetration into the grain of the wooden frames is almost impossible to
eradicate as the mould tracks & spores will be deep within the timber.
10. Both frames should be replaced as they are compromised  in my opinion this is 
due to large amounts of excess condensation being present on the roof window 
glazing & timber frames for a period of time that I cannot determine. [bold added 
for emphasis by Ombudsman]
I need to acknowledge that both opinions refer to there being no evidence of mould in early 
2021, but the lack of mould does not mean that the root cause and damage hadnt existed 
prior to this. On balance, given the age of the window and that it seems more likely than not this problem 
has occurred over time and began prior to the repair works (related to the escape of water), I 
find that AXA have fairly considered this part of the claim and have fairly relied on the 
gradual causes exclusion to decline the claim. 
It seems to be accepted by both parties that there will have been higher humidity and 
increased condensation whilst the escape of water repair works were ongoing, but if this was 
the root cause of the loss here Id reasonably expect thered have been much more 
widespread damp/mould related issues throughout the property, notwithstanding the 
extractor fan that had been fitted.
The other main issues raised and how AXA have treated Mr K and Mrs S overall
As outlined above, the core issue of contention remaining in this complaint was the Velux 
window. Although I note that Mr K and Mrs S didnt respond specifically to disagree with our 
Investigators other findings, for completeness Ive reviewed the entirety of the complaint 
afresh.
Mr K and Mrs S wanted compensation related to the kitchen part of the claim, but when Ive 
considered whats happened, Im satisfied that AXA ultimately treated them fairly when 
settling this part of the claim and wont be making any direction that they need to do anything 
further in this regard.  
Its clear that this claim happening over the course of a long period of time will have been 
disruptive for Mr K and Mrs S  particularly given their parenting responsibilities. This claim 
has not progressed to settlement as smoothly as either party wouldve liked. But when Ive 
balanced how AXA handled the claim against the backdrop of the relevant COVID-19 
restrictions in 2021 and early 2022, delays not caused by AXA and the relatively high value 
of the claim, Im satisfied on balance that any shortcomings arent poor to the extent that 
further compensation would be fair, reasonable or proportionate. I find the £100 already 
offered to be fair. 
Ive no doubt my decision will disappoint Mr K and Mrs S, but it brings to an end our 
Services involvement in trying to informally resolve their dispute with AXA. I hope that Mr K 
and Mrs S feel listened to and reassured that an independent Service has fully considered 
the circumstances of their complaint against AXA.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman