DRN-3902677
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Banks (Tesco 
Bank) refusal to give her the full refund she asks for.
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs R was planning a trip with her husband and two friends. The four of them 
decided to book the trip with a travel agent who I will call P. The trip was to take place in 
May 2020. 
The total cost of the trip was £1,189 per person. There was a deposit of £620 per person. In 
April 2019 Mrs R used her Tesco Bank credit card to pay for the four deposits which in total 
came to £2,480 (i.e. = 4 x £620). It appears that the balance was paid in part by Mrs R and 
in part by her friends, but it appears none of them paid the balance by debit or credit card.
According to Mrs R, the trip was cancelled. Mrs R asked P for a refund she did not get one. 
She tried her travel insurer it refused to give her a refund but indicated she ought to try her 
credit card provider Tesco Bank. Therefore Mrs R contacted Tesco Bank to see if it could 
help her get her money back.
Tesco Bank responded that there were two routes it could potentially have gone down to get 
her money back. These routes were a) a chargeback b) a claim against itself under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
Tesco Bank said it could no longer do a chargeback because Mrs R had complained to it too 
late, and as a result, it had missed the relevant deadline. However, when it looked at her 
claim under Section 75 Tesco Bank was prepared to refund Mrs R for the entire amount she 
paid P for her husband and herself. It appears Tesco Bank has already given Mrs R this 
refund. But it refuses to reimburse Mrs R for the remainder of the sum she claims (that is the 
amount paid to P for her two friends) as its position is that it is not responsible for all of the 
money paid to P. Specifically, Tesco Banks stance on this is that Mrs R and her husband 
had a contract with P contract 1 and the two friends had a separate contract with P 
contract 2. According to Tesco Bank it is only responsible for reimbursing Mrs R for the 
money paid under contract 1.
Dissatisfied with Tescos response, Mrs R came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Rs complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
upholding the complaint.
Tesco Bank accepted this recommendation, Mrs R did not.  She reiterated her previous 
stance and asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at her complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in relation to Mrs Rs complaint. In my provisional decision I 
said I did not intend to uphold her complaint. But since my reasons for coming to this 
conclusion were not the same as those of our investigator I thought it fair to issue a 
provisional decision and give Mrs R and Tesco Bank a chance to respond before issuing my 
next decision.
Ill summarise below what I said in my provisional decision about what Id decided and why.
I agreed that Tesco Bank had two options to try and help Mrs R as it had correctly said. It 
could have tried to carry out a chargeback of it could have looked into a claim against itself 
under Section 75. I then went through both options.
As Mrs R paid for services using her credit card and wanted a refund, I thought about 
whether Tesco Bank dealt with her request fairly. The chargeback process is relevant in this 
case. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers 
and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules. 
Although the process involves card issuers and merchants, and Mrs R is neither, the 
chargeback process could still potentially have helped her. This is because in certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Tesco Bank to ask for a payment Mrs R made 
to P to be refunded. However, a chargeback has to be bought within the relevant deadlines, 
Tesco Bank has no leeway here. And in the circumstances I agreed that given that the 
deposit payment was paid in April 2019, the trip was meant to take place in May 2020 and 
Mrs R first complained to Tesco Bank in May 2021 it was too late for Tesco Bank to initiate a 
chargeback by the time Mrs R complained to it.
I recognised Mrs R might feel hard done by as a result of this. In particular I acknowledged 
that it appeared that she was trying to get her money back from P then her travel insurer and 
that is why she did not come to Tesco Bank sooner. And this I thought was understandable 
behaviour on her part. Moreover, I noted that shed commented that during this time all the 
relevant parties were passing the buck and I could well understand why she would say 
that. But all of this did not change my finding here.
Next I looked at did Tesco Bank act fairly in relation to how it dealt with Mrs Rs complaint 
about her claim against it under Section 75. I looked at the following points when assessing 
this.
Mrs R paid P by credit card and because she used this type of credit she might have the 
protection of Section 75. Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain 
circumstances if the debtor has, in relation to a transaction financed by a credit agreement, 
any claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, then 
she has a like claim against the credit provider.
I said, I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a 
financial services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might 
have under Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Rs complaint, I 
have to take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. 
Therefore, I took it into account. But that doesnt mean I was obliged to reach the same 
outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs R pursued a claim for misrepresentation 
or breach of contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts and operates 
differently from them.
However, Section 75 does not apply in all circumstances. One of the conditions for a 
sucessful claim under it is that there must be a relationship in place called a debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship. For this to be in place Mrs R had to be the debtor, Tesco Bank the 
creditior and P the supplier. Mrs Rs position is that this relationship exists, Tesco Bank says 
it does not. Therefore I took a close look at this point.
The point turns on who was the contracting party with P. When I looked at this I thought it 
was appropriate to look at what the written contractual documents say. The contractual 
documents were made up of two booking forms, Ps terms and conditions and two invoices 
with different reference numbers.I noted that the first section on each booking form says, Person making the booking Then 
there is a space for a name to be added, Mrs Rs name is filled in here in both forms. After 
Mrs Rs name the form says (N.B by law we can correspond with this person only.)
Underneath there is a section headed persons travelling there is space only for two names 
to be added. On one booking form there is the name of Mrs R and her husband in this 
section. In the other form this section is filled in with the names of Mrs Rs two friends.
Then there is a further section headed the relevant deposit it goes on to say, the relevant 
deposit must be submitted with this form for the booking to be confirmed by us. 
Then there is a space for a signature on both forms. Mrs S signed both forms. Next to her 
signature the form says I am over 18 years old and have read and understood [Ps] booking 
conditions and I am authorised to accept them on behalf of those persons named above.
The booking form seems contradictory. On the one hand the line saying by law P can only 
correspond with the person making the booking suggests that the person making the 
booking is the only contracting party with P. 
Further, I thought it was significant that the form only has room for two names in the persons 
travelling section. Tesco Bank has said it is significant that there are two separate invoices 
with two separate invoice numbers. This is the main reason it says there are two contracts. 
But it seems to me the reason there were two separate invoices is simply because all four 
names could not be fitted on the one booking form. 
The person booking is the only person required to sign the booking form which could 
suggest they are the contracting not the persons travelling.  But then the person booking 
seems also to be accepting the terms and conditions on behalf of the persons travelling. 
The persons travelling would not need to accept the terms and conditions if they were not 
the contracting party. This suggests therefore that P wanted to bind them to the terms and 
conditions, and this could only happen if the persons travelling were a contracting party. It 
could be that P was contracting directly with the persons travelling and not with Mrs R 
because Mrs R was merely the agent of her principals i.e. the persons travelling.
The signature section goes on to say the booking is confirmed when the deposit is 
submitted. This suggests that as soon as the deposit is paid the parties are bound by the 
contract. As far as I am aware the deposit was paid at the time of booking and before the 
invoices were issued. 
Overall given all the contradictions in the booking form, which I read against P, which I 
thought I was entitled to do under relevant law and also which I thought was fair and 
reasonable, I was persuaded, on balance that Mrs R is the contracting party in relation to the 
contract according to the booking form at least.  I found this was the case whether there is 
one contract as Mrs R says or two contracts as Tesco Bank says. Albeit it seems the person 
booking is entering into a contract in part, for the benefit of third parties that is the other 
members of the party. But there is nothing in law that prevents Mrs R entering into a contract 
for the benefit of third parties. I was also persuaded, on balance the contract was made 
when Mrs R submitted the consideration, that is the deposit.
But I noted that the booking form is not the only document that is relevant to the question of 
contracting parties we also have the terms and conditions. This is what the terms and 
conditions say about the contract.
1) Your Holiday Contract
When you make a booking you guarantee that you have the authority to accept and do 
accept on behalf of your party the terms of these booking conditions. A contract will exist as 
soon as we issue our confirmation invoice. This contract is made on the terms of these 
booking conditions, which are governed by English Law, and the jurisdiction of the English Courts. You may, however, choose the law and jurisdiction of Scotland or Northern Ireland if 
you wish to do so.
I noted that the first line seems to indicate that P is contracting with the person who books as 
the agent of the persons travelling. That is it indicates that the contracting parties are P and 
the persons travelling.  I thought this contradicts with the booking form which talks about by 
law being able to correspond only with the person who books. There is nothing in law that 
says P could only correspond with an agent not the agents principals. However, if the 
person booking was the contracting party and the sole contracting party that would explain 
why in law the person booking was the only person P could correspond with. 
In further contradiction with the booking form the second line of clause 1 of the terms and 
conditions suggests the contract is completed as soon as P issues its confirmation invoice 
not when the deposit is submitted. 
Again because there is ambiguity here in the contractual documents that P prepared about 
how the contract or contracts were formed I was able to read the contract in the way that 
was most favourable to Mrs R. Therefore I found that the contract or contracts were made 
when Mrs R submitted the deposit.
The two invoices
There seems to be no dispute that the invoices were issued after the deposit was submitted. 
Therefore it follows from what I found above that the invoices are not relevant to the 
formation of the contract because the contract had already been completed before the 
invoices were issued. But in the alternative, if I am wrong about the formation of the contract 
then I have looked at the role of the invoices in the formation of the contract.
There are two invoices from P with two separate numbers. Mrs Rs name and address 
appears on the top left hand corner of both invoices. On each invoice it says:
Please read this invoice carefully and immediately advise us of any errors. Person 
travelling- name shown here must in the passport and correctly spelt.
Then on one invoice there follows Mrs Rs name and that of her husband and on the other 
the name of Mrs Rs two friends.
If the invoice were the contracts as Tesco Bank suggests then why is Mrs Rs name on both 
invoices if she were merely the agent for the principals? Rather if there were two contracts 
Mrs Rs name would not appear on the invoice for her two friends at all. I think it is simple as 
this, we have two invoices because there were two booking forms and there were two 
booking forms because there was not enough space on the one booking form to put the 
details of all four people. But that does not mean that there were two contracts. 
Rather I found that the invoices merely confirm what had been agreed in terms of who has 
contracted i.e. Mrs R, who is travelling i.e. the party of four, what money has been paid as at 
the date of the invoice and what the balance is.
For all of these reasons I was persuaded that there was only one contract that is the contract 
for the benefit of all four travellers, as between Mrs R and P.
Has there been a breach of contract?
However, the difficulty for Mrs R is that I dont know why the contract was cancelled. I 
thought this mattered for the following reasons. If P cancelled the contract the terms and 
conditions are clear she should get her money back, all of it. And since it appeared she was 
not compensated by P this would be a breach of contract in this scenario.
However, if she cancelled then what if anything she is entitled to depends on when she 
cancelled the contract. As under the terms and conditions in some circumstances shed be 
entitled to no refund. We asked Mrs R about who cancelled the contract and when. She responded to say shed 
already supplied all relevant information. But I dont agree Ive nothing persuasive to show 
who cancelled the contract and why. I said if Mrs R wanted to supply any information shes 
got about this in response to my provisional decision, Id look at this before I issued my next 
decision.
Who made what loss?
Moreover, I said, it is not clear who has made what loss. Even if I was persuaded, which I 
was not at the time I issued my provisional decision, that there has been a breach of 
contract, Id need to know who made what loss. To establish this Id need to know how much 
Mrs R paid in total and how much her friends paid because on the face of it she did not 
make 100% of the loss as she did not make 100% of the payment. I said, Id need 
information to show Mrs R paid the balance such as a bank statement. 
I noted Mrs R tells us she is ill and therefore she cannot deal with this complaint much 
longer. I regretted to hear this.  I said, Mrs R may like to know she can appoint a 
representative to deal with her complaint on her behalf. That said, based on the information I 
had, at that point I was I am unable to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision was that I did not intend to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
I invited both Mrs R and Tesco Bank to respond to my provisional decision. As far as I am 
aware we did not receive a response from either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reviewed the file again and revisited my provisional decision.
When I reviewed the file again I noted that Mrs R had previously told us in a telephone call 
she paid all but £338 of the entire amount paid for the holiday £4,756. I apologise for not 
seeing this sooner. Although I note she was asking for a refund for all of the £4,756 even 
though she did not pay the entire £4,756. But although I now know how much Mrs R paid 
and how much her friends paid, this gets Mrs R no further if no breach of contract has been 
demonstrated.
Here the difficulty remains, as I explained in my provisional decision. I dont know why the 
contract was cancelled. In addition, Id also add Ive nothing persuasive to show that the 
contract was even cancelled. In the circumstances, Id have expected Mrs R to have had 
some communication from P to show that the trip was cancelled and cancelled by it. But Ive 
not been provided with that information if it exists. In the circumstances, for the reasons I set 
out in my provisional decision and in this decision, Im therefore not satisfied that there has 
been a breach of contract. It follows as a result of this I have no proper basis on which to 
uphold this part of the complaint.Ive received no response from either Mrs R or Tesco Bank in response to my provisional 
decision. It follows Ive reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision and set out in this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman