DRN-3890340
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy Revolut Ltd replaced his card which subsequently caused issues with a 
subscription service that he had. 
What happened
Revolut updated its systems and as a result issued Mr E with a new card. Mr E says this 
caused issues with a company he had a subscription service with (which Ill call N). Mr E 
says he had a cheap deal tied to his card for the subscription service but as N couldnt 
accept the new card details, this has caused him approximately £11 more per month for 24 
months, totalling £264.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it wasnt for our service to intervene 
with the business decision Revolut made about updating Mr Es card. He said Revolut gave 
notice about the change and that the card was functional, so he didnt think they needed to 
do anything else. Mr E didnt agree so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut carried out an upgrade to its system and part of this meant it had to issue 
replacement cards. Mr E has said hes worked in the banking industry and his old card 
number could have been moved to the new system without any technical issues. 
It is up to Revolut to decide whether it wants to have a system upgrade and its not 
something our service would interfere with so I cant say Revolut did anything wrong in 
deciding to update their systems. 
Revolut have explained the system upgrade may not have worked smoothly with old cards 
which is why new ones were issued, hence why Mr E received a new card. I dont think this 
is unreasonable as it could foresee that Mr E may experience problems using his old card. 
So I dont think Revolut did anything wrong in issuing Mr E with a new card. 
I can see that Revolut contacted Mr E by email a number of times in advance of the changes 
that were taking place so I think Mr E had sufficient notice his card would be coming to an 
end. It also seems that Revolut sent Mr E a fully functioning replacement card in time to 
minimise any disruption to its service. So overall I think Revolut did what it reasonably could 
to mitigate the impact on Mr E.
I can see Mr E contacted Revolut to explain he couldnt make payments to N using this new 
card. Although its unfortunate Mr E had difficulties with his subscription, I dont think Revolut 
did anything wrong so I think this is a matter for Mr E to take up with N. 
Mr E has expressed on a number of occasions he didnt want to have his card cancelled and 
that his cards expiry date has not been adhered to. I appreciate Mr Es strength of feeling 
but for the reasons Ive explained above I dont think Revolut did anything wrong so I wont 
be asking them to make a payment to Mr E for the increase in his subscription to N.   
Mr E has questioned whether Revolut has only migrated certain cards. As Ive explained 
above, its up to Revolut to make this decision. If this happens on any of Mr Es other cards 
and hes unhappy, he may wish to contact Revolut in the first instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman