DRN-3199993
Complaint
Mr H and Mrs I have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (SBL) rejected their claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr H and Mrs I bought solar panels for their home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from SBL, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr H and 
Mrs I into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
SBL made an offer to settle the complaint and its redress offer made a deduction for an 
estimated benefit usually received from the Feed in Tariff Scheme (FIT). Mr and Mrs T felt 
the offer did not fully compensate them for their losses as they did not register for FIT so 
were not in receipt of the benefit.
Mr H and Mrs Is complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr H and Mrs I, and that fair redress would 
be for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure 
should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions on future performance. But he felt that it was Mr H and Mrs Is responsibility to 
register for FIT and they hadnt explained why they hadnt registered for it. So, it seemed like 
SBLs offer was fair. 
Mr H and Mrs at this time did accept they were in receipt of FIT payments, but they still 
havent sent in any statements to show what benefit they have received from the FIT 
scheme. 
As Mr H and Mrs I hadnt sent in statements to show what benefit theyve actually received 
from the FIT scheme, our adjudicator explained that he felt that SBLs offer seemed to be in 
line with our approach to these types of cases.
As Mr H and Mrs I didnt agree, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SBL is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, and as accepted by SBL, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the 
evidence supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr H and Mrs I 
was not given clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-
funding and would equate to an additional cost for them.
So, I think that SBL didnt treat Mr H and Mrs I fairly and they lost out because of what SBL 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what SBL needs to do to put things right for Mr H and Mrs I
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr H and Mrs Is complaint for SBL to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr H and Mrs I from 
the solar panels over the 15 year term of the loan so they pay no more than that, and they 
keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. I can see 
SBL agrees and offered redress in line with our approach. 
Assumed FIT benefit 
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received 
(and is likely to receive in future) from the solar panel system. This benefit includes savings 
in bills as well as payments received from the FIT scheme. But normally customers submit 
evidence of the actual benefit theyve received. As explained above, Mr H and Mrs I have 
not provided their FIT statements. I havent been given any reason why these havent been 
submitted and I can see Mr H and Mrs I have been given multiple opportunities to do so. So, 
in these circumstances, I dont think its unfair for an estimated FIT amount to be included in 
the recalculation, as carried out by SBL. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr H and Mrs I are paying (or have paid) more than 
they should have SBL needs to reimburse Mr H and Mrs I accordingly. Should the 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr H and Mrs I by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require SBL to 
restructure Mr H and Mrs Is loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr H and Mrs I in a 
position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over the 15-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr H and Mrs Is monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr 
H and Mrs I have the following options as to how they would like their overpayments to be 
used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr H and Mrs I and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr H and Mrs I and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.If Mr H and Mrs I accept my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept
If Mr H and Mrs I have settled the loan, SBL should pay Mr H and Mrs I the difference 
between what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure 
above, with 8% interest.
If Mr H and Mrs I has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr H and Mrs I should supply evidence 
of the refinance to SBL, and SBL should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr H and Mrs I paid each month with the SBL loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H and Mrs I receive their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr H and Mrs I paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H and Mrs I receive their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr H and Mrs I the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr H and Mrs Is complaint. Shawbrook Bank 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman