DRN-2731741
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc have reported a default in respect of his credit card 
account. Hes also unhappy with the behaviour and attitude hes experienced from 
Santander staff.
What happened
Mr W had a Santander credit card from 2014. In June 2019 Mr Ws direct debit payment 
towards the card was returned unpaid because he had insufficient funds in his current 
account.
In July 2019 Mr W had several phone conversations with Santander where he disclosed 
some health issues, said he wasnt currently working and was in receipt of disability benefits. 
He was referred to a team offering additional help for vulnerable consumers experiencing 
financial difficulties (collections assist). A collections assist agent spoke with Mr W on 
17 July 2019 and explained:
Hed need to complete the income and expenditure form hed started with a 
colleague two days prior.
Theyd freeze all interest and fees on the account so that any payment he could 
make towards it would reduce the debt balance.
If he couldnt continue to make the minimum payment each month the account would 
be classed as in arrears.
Theyd like to see some evidence of his medical conditions.
Theyd need his written authority for Santander to speak with his support worker.
Theyd give him some breathing space and would call him in a month or so to work 
through the income and expenditure form to see what would be affordable, but in the 
meantime, he should carry on making any payments to the account he felt he could 
manage.
During the call Mr W reflected on what hed been told. He said:
So  Either I can continue paying for the card like I am and if I want to change the 
direct debit, I can change the direct debit to the end of the month if I find thats easier 
for me to make payments  and therell be interest on that. Or, I can do it through 
your department where youll freeze the account and freeze the interest  Which 
one is affecting my credit rating more?
The agent replied that any arrears, including payments already missed, would be registered 
on his credit file. Mr W said he could continue to make payments, but it was the interest that 
was making the payments problematic, and the fact that the direct debit was being taken 
earlier in the month than hed expected. He asked if his credit rating would start coming 
back to normal if he made payments without the interest. The agent explained that if he 
could maintain the minimum payment, his credit file would be fine. She said their act of 
freezing the interest was to make managing a bit easier for him and would not affect his 
credit file.
Mr W agreed to the option of freezing the interest and the agent confirmed the outstanding 
balance hed still have to pay. She also confirmed his address.
The agent then sent Mr W a letter and a prepaid envelope for him to return his medical 
evidence in. On 20 July 2019 Santander sent Mr W a further letter explaining that his direct 
debit had been cancelled as it had been returned unpaid in June and July.
An agent next called Mr W in mid-August 2019. Mr W confirmed hed received the prepaid 
envelope, but said he was waiting for an appointment with his support team before 
supplying his medical evidence. He also said hed be making a payment shortly; he 
estimated hed be able to manage £200. Mr W asked how he should make that payment. 
The agent said he could either call and pay over the phone or pay by bank transfer.
About a week later an agent called Mr W again. Mr W said hed be sending some 
information tomorrow using the prepaid envelope, but he was still waiting on his support 
worker to write it all out. Mr W also said he wouldnt now be able to make a payment but 
wanted to know the easiest way to do that going forwards. The agent said he could make a 
payment online, over the phone or in branch and hed be able to track what payments he 
was making by looking at his current account statements. The agent also re-sent the letter 
requesting medical evidence, enclosing a further prepaid envelope. The letter included:
If you are unable to send these documents within 30 days  your account will be 
referred to our collections team, which has stricter rules around collecting the money 
owed to us.
Santander contacted Mr W again on 9 September 2019; Mr W said hed be sending his 
supporting information in shortly. Further attempts were made to chase Mr W for the 
outstanding information at the end of September and in October, by letter and phone.
Account Summaries continued to be sent to Mr W each month between October 2019 and 
February 2020. These explained the account was in arrears and said, To avoid further 
action you must immediately pay the minimum payment amount stated and the amount over 
your credit limit.
Notices of sums in arrears were also sent in October 2019, December 2019 and February 
2020. These urged Mr W to call Santander unless hed already made arrangements to pay 
the arrears and was maintaining this arrangement. With these letters Santander included a 
Financial Conduct Authority information sheet which warned that missed payments could 
affect Mr Ws credit rating.
On 15 February 2020 Santander sent Mr W notice that theyd be telling credit reference 
agencies hed defaulted on his account in 28 days unless the balance was paid. The letter 
invited Mr W to call them.
Santander registered the account as in default on 21 March 2020.
Mr W contacted Santander in April 2020 wanting to make a payment. Mr W then began 
making payments by standing order.
In September 2020 Mr W complained that his credit file was showing that hed defaulted on 
this account. He said hed never been told that would happen. He said if hed known his 
credit file would be affected, he would have found a way to make the minimum payments 
required.Santander didnt agree that Mr W had been mis-advised. In their final responses they said 
the default had been applied correctly and wouldnt be removed. They also said they thought 
staff had remained helpful and professional with Mr W.
Santander later explained (in a phone conversation with Mr W in November 2020) that it 
wasnt the freezing of interest that caused the default, but the fact that Mr W didnt make any 
payments towards the card between June 2019 and April 2020. He said he was never told 
hed have to continue minimum payments.
What Mr W told us
Mr W asked us to get involved in November 2020. He said he thought a £20 or £30 regular 
payment had been set up in July 2019 and he didnt know why Santander hadnt taken the 
money. He said hed tried to set up a regular payment numerous times, but Santander staff 
were not willing to help him. He said he was unaware hed missed payments until he saw 
the default on his credit file in April 2020.
He explained he was usually working and even when work was quiet, he still had money to 
pay towards the credit card from savings and his benefits. He said: this is a customer 
service problem with Santander when setting up a new standing order and a failure to 
explain clearly  this is nothing to do with my personal financial finances.
Mr W also said hed let Santander know several times that he didnt want to be contacted by 
post because his health makes it difficult for him to pick up post from the ground floor, and 
his letter box is in a communal area and post gets trampled by other residents. He added 
that Santander had made out providing medical evidence wasnt necessary.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. She thought Santander had acted 
reasonably and had fairly reported a default. She said that following his conversation with 
the collections assist agent in July 2019 Mr W failed to provide the information requested so 
that a payment arrangement could be made and didnt respond to Santanders attempts to 
contact him. She also said that she didnt think the customer service hed received from 
Santander staff had been poor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I realise that Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont 
be upholding his complaint.
Ive listened carefully to the conversation Mr W had with a collections assist agent on 17 July 
2019 and I dont think anything the agent said should have led Mr W to believe he could stop 
making repayments altogether without any consequences. I also dont think she suggested 
theyd be taking monthly payments of £20 or £30 by direct debit. I think the agent was 
understanding of the situation Mr W found himself in and made it clear she wanted to help 
him find an affordable way forward. Thats why she explained shed contact him again after a 
period of breathing space to go through his income and expenditure form. It was clear that 
this was the start of a dialogue about repayment arrangements, not the conclusion. And I 
dont think Mr W was mis-advised.Mr W has said that he left that phone call under the impression that Santander would 
continue to debit his current account each month with a £20 or £30 payment towards his 
debt. Hes said he was unaware his account had fallen into default until April 2020. But Ive 
seen evidence that Mr W was written to in July 2019, after his first conversation with 
collections assist, and informed that his direct debit instruction had been cancelled. Ive also 
heard Mr Ws conversations with staff from August 2019 during which he talked about his 
plans to make a payment  suggesting he was aware none had yet been made  and was 
told by Santander what the options were for making a payment. Those options didnt include 
direct debit. Coupled with the fact that Mr W will have been able to see from his own current 
account statements that there were no payments being taken by Santander, I dont think 
Mr W had any reasonable basis for his belief that he was making a £20 or £30 payment 
each month from July 2019.
Mr W has also said that he was unaware of a problem because he didnt receive any contact 
from Santander to let him know of one. But the evidence Ive seen suggests that Santander 
went to some effort to contact Mr W after July 2019, and to engage him in formulating an 
affordable repayment plan. Mr W says he didnt receive any letters, but Im satisfied 
Santander sent them and that they were correctly addressed to the address Mr W had given 
them. Im also satisfied that Mr W more likely than not received Santanders letters. I say this 
because he confirmed in August 2019 that hed received the prepaid envelope to return his 
medical evidence, and Ive no reason to think the other letters werent similarly successful in 
reaching their intended destination. Ive also heard nothing in the phone conversations Ive 
listened to, or the contact notes Ive read, to say that Mr W told Santander about any 
difficulties with receiving post prior to April 2020.
Santander have shown that they wrote to Mr W many times between July 2019 and 
February 2020. These letters advised him his account was over the credit limit and in 
arrears. They also encouraged Mr W to get in touch about his account and explained what 
would happen, including the impact on his credit file, if he didnt repay the balance or agree a 
plan to repay. But Mr W didnt get in touch, agree a plan with Santander, or set up a standing 
order until April 2020, after the account had been defaulted.
As Mr W made no payments to his credit card between June 2019 and April 2020 and didnt 
engage with Santander in agreeing an affordable repayment plan, I think it was reasonable 
for Santander to begin recovery action when they did. I do appreciate that Mr W was 
suffering some personal difficulties during this time and these might have made it harder for 
him to engage with Santander. But Ive seen that Santander reached out to him and gave 
him several opportunities to avoid further action.
Overall, I think Santander acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances by taking 
recovery action for unpaid credit card debt and registering the corresponding default with 
credit reference agencies. Ive also seen no evidence that Santander staff treated Mr W 
poorly either when he first disclosed his health issues and financial difficulties, or later when 
they dealt with his queries about setting up a standing order with another bank and his 
complaints.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman