DRN-2335140
The complaint
Mrs W says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in July 2001. The policy was added 
to Mrs Ws credit card account shortly after she applied for the credit card itself. She applied 
for the PPI during a phone call with a representative from MBNA. The cost of the PPI was 
68p for every £100 outstanding balance. In the event of a successful claim the policy would 
have paid 3% of the outstanding credit card balance for 12 months if Mrs W was made 
redundant. And if Mrs W was too unwell to work, it would have paid either the outstanding 
balance in full or until Mrs W was back at work. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
Mrs Ws main complaint points are that the policy was added to her credit card account, she 
didnt need it and it was unsuitable for her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
I think MBNA made Mrs W aware that the PPI was optional, and she chose to take it. I say 
this because when she took out the PPI, she had only recently applied for credit card itself  
without PPI. Ive been given a copy of Mrs Ws credit card application. On that form there is 
a separate paragraph entitled PAYMENT PROTECTION COVER followed by a brief 
description of the PPI and two boxes  one marked Yes and the other marked No. The 
No box has been ticked. So, I think Mrs W would have known it was open to her not to take 
out PPI if she didnt want to have it as she took the credit card initially without it but chose to 
add it later.
Theres no call recording. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs W to remember 
everything that was discussed as this was so long ago  20 years. But, on balance, I think 
its more likely that during the phone call Mrs W decided she wanted to have the benefits 
that PPI offered her, and she agreed for it to be added on to her credit card account. 
MBNA has given us a copy of the script it has said its representative would have used during 
the call. And I think its likely that script, or similar, would have been followed during the call. 
I can see that MBNA didnt give advice, so I dont need to consider whether the policy was 
suitable  that was for Mrs W to decide. But MBNA still should have given Mrs W enough 
information to make a proper decision about whether PPI was right for her.
The information MBNA gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been  
and I dont think they properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay out 
if Mrs W made a claim. But Mrs W chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so 
she seems to have wanted it. And she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover such as a pre-existing medical condition.
Ive also taken into account that Mrs W has told us she would receive some employee 
benefits if she was too unwell to work  six weeks full pay followed by six weeks half pay. 
She has also told us she had around £200 worth of savings she could have used to make 
the credit card repayments and also could have relied upon family and her husband for 
financial support if she needed to. Mrs W also said she had a car valued at around £2,000 
she could have sold if necessary. 
Even though the policy benefit was low, based on what I know about Mrs Ws circumstances 
it looks like it could still have been useful to her. And I dont think better information would 
have stopped her buying it. It would have paid out for longer than Mrs W was entitled to 
receive employee sick pay and it would have meant Mrs Ws savings would have remained 
intact or could be used for other essential outgoings. Mrs W has said her family and husband 
could have supported her, but their own circumstances could have changed so I dont think 
this could be relied upon. The policy would also mean that Mrs W would not have to sell her 
car in order to make the credit card repayments. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered her, I think it unlikely Mrs W would have 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed 
still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman