DRN-3444155
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lifesearch Partners Limited didnt give him information about how the 
trust worked in relation to his life assurance policy.
What happened
In 2011, Mr S received advice from Lifesearch about taking out a life assurance policy. He 
was advised to take a level term assurance policy for 25 years with a sum assured of 
£350,000. The policy was placed on risk in 2012. Part of Lifesearchs service included 
helping Mr S complete a form to place the policy in trust. This was sent to Mr S to have 
signed and witnessed. The trust deed named his wife and his father as trustees in line with 
Mr Ss instructions.
More recently, Mr S has separated from his wife and wanted to remove her as trustee. The 
policy provider explained that to remove a trustee it would need all trustees signatures. Mr S 
complained. He said that Lifesearch shouldve made him aware that trustees cannot be 
removed and amended by him at the outset. As hes chosen to cancel the policy and take a 
new one, he said hes lost out financially as a result.
Our Investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained that Lifesearch was giving 
advice around the life cover and didnt give advice about trusts. She said that she didnt 
expect Lifesearch to give the level of detail Mr S expected, and in any event felt that if it did, 
he wouldnt have made a different choice.
Mr S disagreed. He said that information around changing a trustee is the most important 
part and Lifesearch shouldve disclosed this. He explained this is because its a widely know 
[sic] fact that trustees will normally be a spouse, its also widely known that around 50% of 
marriages end up in separation/divorce. He asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint so it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator for similar reasons. Im not upholding this 
complaint.
I can see that Lifesearch has given Mr S details about his policy and reasons why it 
recommended it. Id expect it to do that. I can also see it explained in a phone conversation 
that placing it into trust would mean the sum assured would go to the beneficiaries faster if 
he passed away and that it wouldnt be subject to inheritance tax. This is the information I 
expected it to give Mr S.
Mr S named his wife at the time as a trustee and beneficiary. Lifesearch didnt give advice 
specifically around the trust, and the information it gave Mr S was sufficient. I wouldnt 
expect it to have given Mr S details around how to amend the trust. I dont agree with Mr S 
that this needed to be highlighted to him particularly given his circumstances at the time. 
There wasnt any indication that hed have to change the trust in the future so I wouldnt 
expect Lifesearch to have provided this information.
I understand Mr Ss concern in general in relation to marriages ending in separation, but I 
can only assume at the time that he didnt expect to have to change the trust. And so even if 
Lifesearch had given him this information at the outset, I dont think hed have done anything 
differently at the time.
Lifesearch was responsible for giving Mr S advice and information about his life policy and I 
can see it did this. I wouldnt expect it, in this case, to give Mr S detailed information about 
how to amend a trust deed  which is a legal document. And in any event, I dont think there 
was any indication that this would be necessary at the time, nor do I think Mr S wouldve 
acted differently had he been given this information. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman