DRN-2686832
The complaint
Mr N complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr N entered a HPA with MotoNovo in May 2020 to acquire a used car. He says that he 
experienced issues shortly after acquisition and reported a loss of power and drive train 
warning to the dealer in June 2020. He says he was recommended to get the fault 
diagnosed if it re-occurred. Mr N says the drive train error re-occurred the following month 
and he booked the car in for investigation but before this happened the car was recalled and 
so Mr N had the required recall repair undertaken thinking this may resolve the issue. 
However, following this the car experienced a loss of power and he also noted a whistling 
noise. Mr N reported this to MotoNovo in September 2020. 
MotoNovo says that Mr N raised a complaint about his car noting a drive train error message 
on the dashboard display, the vehicle losing power, a whistling noise and a fault with the 
turbo. MotoNovo arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out which took place 
on 2 October 2020. The report confirmed the whistling noise, but no warning lights came on 
during the road test and no drive train or transmission issue was identified. It concluded that 
the noise from the turbo was consistent with the wear expected given the age and mileage of 
the car and that had an issue been present at acquisition this would have been raised 
sooner. It didnt think the selling agent was responsible for the issue with the turbo. Based on 
the inspection report and the use Mr N had made of the car, MotoNovo issued a final 
response letter dated 8 October 2020 not upholding his complaint.
Mr N said that he had the car inspected on 2 November 2020 by the main dealer and the 
whistling noise was confirmed as coming from the turbocharger. He said the main dealer 
didnt think the issue was due to wear and tear as had been suggested by the October 
inspection and said the turbocharger isnt a part that would require replacement due to wear 
and had instead suffered some damage. Mr N said he believed the turbocharger was 
damaged when he acquired the car and the issue of the drive train messages, loss of power 
and whistling noise were evidence of the damage. 
Our investigator didnt think he had enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
Mr N didnt accept our investigators view. He said that the inspection carried out by the main 
dealer in November 2020 should have more weight than the independent inspection carried 
out in October 2020. He said the November inspection included a full strip down whereas the 
October inspection was a short test drive. He said that the November 2020 inspection 
confirmed the issue he had been experiencing since acquisition would be expected from a 
damaged turbocharger.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N acquired a used car through a HPA with MotoNovo. Under the regulations, specifically 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), MotoNovo can be held liable if the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such 
as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances. At the time of acquisition, the car was around four and a half 
years old and had been driven 77,800 miles.
Mr N experienced issues with the car losing power and a drive train error message 
appearing. He contacted the supplying dealer about these are was advised to have the fault 
diagnosed if it re-occurred. I can understand why Mr N didnt have this carried out when the 
car was recalled as he thought the issue may be resolved at that time. However, without 
further evidence to show what was causing the temporary loss of power and error message 
at that time, I do not think it unreasonable that no further action took place.
Mr N experienced issues after the recall repair was undertaken and he reported the 
problems to MotoNovo on 3 September 2020. At this time, he also noted the whistling noise. 
Given Mr N acquired the car les than six months before reporting the issues to MotoNovo I 
think it reasonable that MotoNovo arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out 
to establish whether the issues Mr N had described were due to faults that were present or 
developing at the point of supply. 
The independent inspection took place on 2 October 2020. By this time Mr N had been able 
to drive the car over 4,500 miles. The inspection found no error message or fault codes and 
no loss of power was noticed when the car was taken on a test drive. While I accept these 
issues may be intermittent without further evidence that there was a fault present that was 
causing the issues I do not find I can comment on this further. The inspection report did 
confirm that there was a whistling noise and that this was consistent with a turbo issue. 
However, the report concluded that given the mileage Mr N was able to drive and the time 
he had the car, the issue wasnt present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr N had the car investigated by the main dealer and has provided a copy of 
correspondence from the main dealer which says the whistling noise was coming from the 
turbocharger and having inspected the turbocharger there were signs of slight damage. It 
also said the drive train error message and loss of power could be linked to this issue.
I have considered both the evidence provided in the October independent inspection report 
and the comments provided by the main dealer. It is accepted that there is an issue with the 
turbocharger which is causing the whistling noise. The outstanding issue is whether this is 
due to a fault that was present or developing at the point of supply and if the car Mr N 
acquired was sufficiently durable.
The car underwent a MOT in May 2020 and no issues were raised at that time. While I note 
the comments from the main dealer that the drive train error message and loss of power 
could be linked to the turbo issue without further evidence of this and noting there were no 
fault codes identified in the October report, I do not find I have enough evidence to say that 
these issues showed there were issues with the turbocharger from June 2020. Mr N reported 
the whistling noise as starting in August 2020. As no issues were identified in the May MOT 
and the noise from the turbocharger didnt happen until around three months after 
acquisition, I do not find I can say that the was a fault that was present or developing at 
acquisition.I note the comments about the life of a turbocharger, but cars will experience wear and tear 
and when acquiring a used car, it is possible that there has been previous wear that has 
reduced the life of certain parts. The price of a used car will reflect that it has experienced 
previous wear and as Mr Ns car had been driven 77,800 miles at acquisition I do not think it 
unreasonable to accept that there would be some wear and tear. The main dealers 
comment about there being some slight damage to the turbocharger isnt conclusive that the 
turbocharger wasnt sufficiently durable at the point of supply. As Mr N was able to drive the 
car over 4,500 miles before the October inspection report I do not find I can say that I have 
enough to say the car wasnt sufficiently durable or not fit for purpose.
Overall, I do not think that there is enough evidence to say that the issue with Mr Ns cars 
turbocharger is due to a fault that was present at the point of supply rather than wear and 
tear. Therefore, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against MotoNovo Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman