DRN-3246072
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that after they made an overpayment in 2014, Nationwide Building 
Society agreed to maintain their monthly payments at the same level to allow for 
overpayments but subsequently reduced that level in line with the contractual monthly 
payments (CMPs). This has meant that their mortgage balance is higher than it would have 
been had Nationwide not done this.
What happened
IN September 2014 Mr and Mrs H made an overpayment of £35,150 to their mortgage 
account ending 3040 and asked for the payments to remain unaltered so that overpayments 
would reduce the mortgage balance. Nationwide set a preference on the mortgage account 
of payments of £400.82 with the option to Mr and Mrs H to remove it if they wished. In 
January 2021 Mr and Mrs H thought that with the overpayments that their mortgage was 
coming to an end when they discovered that Nationwide had stopped taking the payments 
without telling them. So, they hadnt paid off as much capital as they thought and would be 
paying more interest on the capital.
Nationwide says that this account was on the Base Mortgage Rate and each time the 
interest rate changed, the CMPs were adjusted This happened initially in 2016, when the 
monthly payments fell from £417.56 to £318.43. Nationwide says that Mr and Mrs H would 
have known that this was happening as they got letters telling them that the payments were 
changing, and this would be reflected in the annual mortgage statements.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as Nationwide 
adjusted the payments in line with the mortgage terms and advised Mr and Mrs H of what it 
was doing. Mr and Mrs H disagree saying in summary that its unfair that Nationwide, having 
agreed to take the overpayments, stopped doing so and didnt inform them of their actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that back in 2014 made a large overpayment and at the same time appear to have 
agreed with Nationwide that the Society collect the same money every month to ensure that 
overpayments continued to be made. But two years later Nationwide stopped doing that but 
adjusted the monthly payments in line with the CMPs without collecting the overpayments. 
Nationwide told Mr and Mrs H by letter what it was going to do, and it seems that on three 
subsequent occasions it made adjustments and told Mr and Mrs H in advance of these 
adjustments. I agree that Nationwide doesnt say that its no longer collecting the 
overpayments but that in my view would be obvious from the substantial reduction in 
monthly payments from the previous ones that Mr and Mrs H had been making with the 
overpayments. The reduction in the monthly payments in 2016 was in the region of 25%. 
whereas the fall in the interest rate was only from 2.5% to 2.25%. The 2016 and subsequent 
letters only refer to collecting the CMP and not to also collecting the overpayments so in my 
view it should have been clear at that time to Mr and Mrs H that Nationwide was only 
collecting the CMP and not the overpayments.
My task is to decide this complaint based on what is fair and reasonable. Nationwide says 
that it was adjusting the interest rates in accordance with the mortgage terms and Mr and 
Mrs H say that they expected Nationwide to continue to collect overpayments. So, they 
would like the mortgage balance to be adjusted in line as if the overpayments had been 
made. Im clear that from 2016 Mr and Mrs H should have been aware that the 
overpayments werent being collected. I would have thought that if they were dissatisfied 
with what Nationwide was doing in 2016 it would have been reasonable for them to contact 
the Society when they got the correspondence or when the payments changed to say they 
were unhappy with the reduced payments and asking for it to revert to the higher payments. 
As Mr and Mrs H didnt take these reasonable steps, I cant fairly uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman