DRN-3588099
The complaint
Ms W has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined part of her claim under
her home insurance policy following damage to items in her home.
What happened
A paint spillage incident occurred at Miss Ws home in October 2021. She was insured with
UKI at the time and made a claim on her insurance policy however UKI declined a part of the 
claim.
Miss W thought that UKI had confirmed approval of the claim in October 2021. It had said
that its representative would visit Miss Ws home to assess whether the sofa and carpets
could be cleaned or would need replacing. Miss W said shed received payment for several
items without further question and UKI paid out approximately £2,000 in total. Shed
understood that the excess would be taken from the settlement for the sofa and carpets.
UKI said that following its representatives visit, it became apparent that the sofa and carpets
had suffered wear and tear and were beyond economical repair prior to the incident, and it
would therefore settle only part of her claim.
Miss W was unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and referred it to this service. Our
investigator didnt uphold the complaint and agreed with UKI that the items in question were
already worn due to general usage over time. She thought that the sofa showed wear to the
quality and colour of the fabric and that the carpet also appeared worn. As the policy didnt
cover wear and tear, and as it expected items to be in a reasonable existing condition
regardless of age, she thought that UKI had been fair in declining this part of the claim.
Miss W remains unhappy about the outcome of her complaint and the matter has been 
referred to me to make a decision in my role as Ombudsman. In June 2022, I issued a 
provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Miss Ws 
complaint as follows; -
My role is to consider whether UKI has treated Miss W in a fair and reasonable manner in its
handling of her claim and whether its declined the claim in line with the policy terms and
conditions. Ive concluded on a provisional basis that it hasnt done so in all respects, and Ill
explain why.
The terms and conditions of the policy are the starting point for my decision. Miss Ws policy
covers her in principle for accidental damage to the contents of her home, subject to the
detailed provisions of her policy. The policy defines accidental damage as; sudden and
unintentional physical damage that happens unexpectedly.
The policy also excludes cover for damage in certain circumstances. Under the heading
This policy doesnt cover, it states: - Just like most insurers we don't cover: Wear and
tearAnd damage caused gradually. Also, under the heading: - Maintaining your buildings
and contents it states: - You must keep the buildings, contents and personal possessions
covered under this policy in good condition.
Miss W said that initially she was told not to worry by UKI as; I had valid cover for items and
a case would be raised. Miss W said shed provided photographs of the damage and
evidence for costs to replace the items, together with; links to items online for cost
purposes. During an initial telephone call with UKI she said it confirmed that her claim had
been approved, however she would need to send quotes for some work elements. She said
that she was also informed that a representative would attend her home to assess whether
items could be cleaned or whether they would be replaced and would bring carpet samples
as an option for replacement. When the UKIs assessor attended her home, he questioned
her about the accident and took video and photographic evidence. Miss W said that he didnt
inspect the living room carpet yet took numerous photographs of a chair which wasnt part of
the claim. She said she was also questioned at length by a claim validation specialist about
the incident and her home life.
Miss W didnt agree that her sofa and carpets were beyond economical repair before the
event took place and says that the policy doesnt specify that items need to be less than a
certain age or in nearly new condition. The carpet was bought around 12 years ago, and
Miss W was adamant that there was no previous wear and tear or damage to the carpet.
She said that it was a quality wool carpet and had many more years of service ahead and
was designed for areas of high usage and to last for 25 years or more. In any event she said
that the age and condition of the smaller damaged items werent assessed prior to accident.
Miss W was also unhappy about the excess being deducted and having to continue to pay
the premiums despite UKI declining part of her claim. She said that; Payment was made for
smaller items without further question and it was indicated on the invoice that my excess
would be taken from the settlement for sofa and carpets. As to the premium, she said that;-
When ringing to cancel my policy today I was told that I must continue to pay the £101
premium I pay for contents insurance until June 2021 - even though they deem my contents
uninsurable. She considered the handling of her claim to be contradictory and insulting.
UKI said that the sofa and carpet were inspected by its independent assessor, who
confirmed that both the sofa and carpets were beyond economical repair prior to the
incident. It said that the policy didnt provide cover for such items and it had correctly
declined the claim given that the damage was caused by wear and tear or was caused
gradually. It said that the terms and conditions of the policy and the assessors report and
photographs confirmed this view.
UKI said that it paid Miss Ws decorating costs and paid for replacement curtains as well as
a number of other items. It said that it was only when the inspector attended Miss Ws home
that he saw the carpets and furniture properly and noted widespread damage. He was then
able to say that the extent of the wear and tear didnt justify any restoration attempts. He
referred to an unknown spillage stain which it said had caused permanent damage to the
pile and said that the carpets were not in a repairable condition prior to the paint spillage.
UKIs inspector noted that Miss W had said that the paint container was resting on top of an
open door, shed lost her balance and the paint container fell onto the floor on the left side of
an open door. It queried how the sofa on the right-hand side of the open door would also
have sustained paint damage. UKI also noted that no dust sheets had been used at the time
of decorating.
UKI concluded that the carpets were in poor state of repair and that previous wear and
damage made them non-repairable but that they needed to be replaced in any event. It also
referred to concerns about the claim which it had referred to its claims validation team to
investigate. In summary, UKI said that it didnt consider that it had an obligation to settle the
claim in full, just because it had previously accepted part of it.Having carefully considered what both Miss W and UKI have to say in the light of the
available evidence, I note that UKI initially accepted the claim. I note also that it paid out for
several items as well as curtains and decoration and deducted the excess. Miss W considers
that UKI should therefore honour the whole claim. This is not necessarily the case however,
and I have based my provisional decision on the basis of the facts and evidence which have
emerged and the application of the policy terms and conditions to the facts and evidence.
Its important to note that as a part of consideration of a claim, necessary checks are usually
carried out to validate the full facts and circumstances. This may well include inspection and
reasonable questioning about the incident. Im satisfied that prior to inspection, UKI could
provide a preliminary response only, and could not be expected to know the condition of
specific items or if the damage claimed had been caused by wear and tear. In summary, any
expectation of claim cover for specific items will clearly be subject to the necessary checks,
although I agree that UKI could have managed expectations better by making this crystal
clear to Miss W in advance.
Having viewed the independent assessors report and photographic evidence, I conclude on
a provisional basis that UKI didnt act fairly in all respects in handling this claim. I note that
UKI considered the sofa and stair carpets were showing signs of existing wear and tear or
gradual damage over several years, as well as the recent paint damage. The available
photographs of the sitting room carpet are less clear as to the extent of wear and tear.
Nevertheless, the damage claimed is for paint damage to these items. Im satisfied that the
paint damage is damage which occurred suddenly and unexpectedly.
Ive also noted that UKI have questioned how such extensive damage could have occurred
in the circumstances described by Miss W. Ive noted that UKI have stated that the damage
was extremely widespread and included damage to numerous items and curtains. I agree
that the extent of the damage appears unusually extensive in the light of the circumstances
described. Nevertheless, UKI has settled Miss Ws claim for damage to curtains and
numerous items damaged during the same incident.
UKI has also noted that no dust sheets were used by Miss W when balancing the paint
container on top of an open door. Nevertheless, the incident still meets the definition of
accidental damage under the policy as it was sudden. There is no evidence of it being
intentional or expected damage. On the balance of probabilities, I therefore conclude on a
preliminary basis that the sofa and carpets were damaged due to an insured risk. I also
conclude on a preliminary basis that the damage wasnt caused deliberately. Indeed, UKI
hasnt pursued this approach.
In the circumstances, its fair to place Miss W back into the position she was before the
incident. I agree with Miss W that the policy provisions dont require items to be under a
specified age or in a nearly new condition. Wed expect an insurer to cover damage caused
by an insured event. Ive noted that Miss Ws policy includes the usual wording which allows
the insurer to decide the method of settlement of a claim. In other words, it can decide
whether to replace an item, to repair or clean an item, or to make a cash payment. Payment
of a fair and reasonable proportion of the cost of a replacement sofa and carpets may be
appropriate in all the circumstances in this case, however this is a matter for the insurer to
decide in the first instance.
As to the excess which was deducted from the sum paid out, and as to Miss W continuing
to pay her premiums; on a provisional basis, I dont consider that UKI has acted in an unfair
or unreasonable manner. As part of the claim was paid, the excess of £50 would be due in
any event. Premiums remain due while a policy is in place and a claim is progressing unless
the policyholder decides to cancel the policy. I cant say that UKI has acted unfairly or
unreasonably in declining to refund any premiums here.I appreciate that both Miss W and UKI will be disappointed to read my provisional
conclusions, however, unless I receive evidence to the contrary, I consider this to be the
fairest and most reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Miss W and UKI if they had any further comments or 
evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have both provided concise responses to the preliminary decision. Miss W has 
accepted the provisional decision. She felt that UKI shouldnt refuse her claim due to the age 
of her claimed items as this wasnt specified in her policy cover. She also stated that a 
request for the transcripts of a relevant phone call had been rejected and finally, she said 
that UKI had used varying invalid reasons to reject her claim.
UKI said the claim was declined as the customer had not taken reasonable care, for 
example by using dust sheets and that had she done so, this would have prevented such 
extensive loss. It referred to the policy terms and conditions: You must follow all of the terms 
and conditions of this policy and take all reasonable precautions to prevent a claim from 
happening. Where a claim is unavoidable, you must take all reasonable precautions to 
minimise the amount of the claim.
I note these final points made by both parties however they do not change my provisional 
conclusions. I appreciate that the policy holder should take all reasonable measures to avoid 
an accident and that would include use of dust sheets. It would also clearly be inadvisable to 
balance a paint container on the top of an open door when painting. I note however that the 
spread of paint damage was widespread, to include curtains and a number of personal items 
as well as the sofa and carpet. In the circumstances, its likely that paint would have 
damaged the carpet in any event. In addition, UKI had already accepted the claim regarding 
other items which likewise hadnt been covered by a dust sheet and despite the balancing of 
the paint tin.
As stated in my provisional decision, its understandable that an insurer would wish to carry 
out necessary checks to validate the full facts and circumstances of a claim. Its also the 
case that an insurer should take care not to pay out on invalid or excessive claims. The 
provisional decision therefore acknowledges that the cost of cleaning, or a proportion only of 
replacement costs would be the appropriate compensation to be paid in this case. This 
recognises the fact that there was no doubt existing wear and tear to these items.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter and I uphold Miss Ws complaint as follows.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ws claim and require UK Insurance Limited 
to provide a cash settlement to either: -
- Cover the cost of cleaning of the sofa and carpets, or
- Pay an appropriate proportion in accordance with the policy terms and conditions,
of the cost of replacement sofa and carpets, following provision by Miss W of areceipt or invoice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman