DRN-1823821
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) set up 
annuities for him that he didnt want and didnt sign up for. Hes unhappy that Prudential 
wont allow him to have a cash value for these annuities as the money is rightfully his.
What happened
Mr S had three pension policies with Prudential and in February 2007 he enquired about 
taking his benefits. Mr S asked if it was possible to surrender all of these policies for a 
straight cash settlement.
Prudential responded shortly after to say the purpose of the plans were to provide a pension 
or a pension and a cash lump sum. It said it cannot be surrendered for a cash payment. 
Prudential said under separate cover it had issued him quotations of the current benefits 
available under each plan and if he wished to start taking his benefits he could send back 
the completed forms.
In November 2007 Mr S sent back the completed paperwork for the three plans, having 
selected to take tax free cash, a yearly 3% escalating income paid monthly and a 100% 
spouses pension on each. Mr S signed to say he had read and understood the income 
options.
More recently Mr S complained to Prudential, saying hed never signed up for an annuity. 
And that he now wanted to cash in the plans. Prudential responded providing Mr S copies of 
the forms he completed to take out the annuities and it explained that he couldnt cash in his 
plans. Prudential said that whilst legislation does now allow for annuities under £10,000 to 
be paid as a lump sum in certain circumstances, this was not mandatory and Prudential 
does not do this. It said it was committed to the terms and conditions of the annuities Mr S 
had setup.
Mr S had also complained that he was a smoker but Prudential hadnt paid him an enhanced 
annuity. Prudential responded to say that within the forms he was provided with in 2007, 
there was a section to tell them about any medical conditions that Mr S had. But Mr S didnt 
specify any medical conditions when completing his retirement forms. Prudential said it didnt 
provide enhancements for lifestyle conditions such as smoking but Mr S was provided with 
information about the open market option and he could have contacted other providers who 
may have offered this. But instead Mr S completed the retirement forms with Prudential to 
take his benefits with it.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Prudential had done anything 
wrong. He said that Mr S had been provided with documentation at the time showing that he 
was taking out an annuity on a number of occasions. With reference to cashing in the 
annuities the investigator explained that only annuities valued under £10,000 could be 
cashed in and this legislation wasnt mandatory. 
Prudential told us that at the time of taking his benefits, the funds used to purchase each of 
the annuities was over £10,000. However, legislation did allow pension funds to be taken 
subject to the total value of the pots, but Mr Ss three policies took him over this limit. If Mr S 
hadnt wanted to take an annuity, his only other option at the time wouldve been to take 
drawdown. However, his combined fund was too small to meet Prudentials minimum limit for 
allowing drawdown. And this wouldve been the same for other providers as well.
In response to the investigators view Mr S continued to say that the evidence didnt show 
that he had signed up to an annuity. He says he never signed anything to say he wanted or 
accepted annuities and he wasnt told that his policies were being converted into annuities. 
He asks why he was never contacted and given any help when taking out his pensions. Mr S 
values his annuities at under £10,000 and Prudential wont tell him what the value of them is. 
Mr S also says the paperwork hes received recently sometimes makes mention of annuities 
and other times personal pension. He also wants to know why Prudential didnt offer him an 
enhanced annuity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr S is a lay person when it comes to pensions and annuities and these 
can be difficult to understand. However, for the reasons Ill explain this does not mean 
Prudential has done something wrong. Mr S continues to say that he didnt sign up for an 
annuity. However, I understand he has been provided with all of the information Prudential 
holds in relation to his plans  and this clearly shows he signed up for annuities. 
Put simply an annuity is what a pension fund becomes when a customer decides to take 
their benefits from a pension in the form of payments spread across their lifetime. The 
pension policy and its fund is converted into a yearly amount which is payable for life. Often 
this is still referred to as a pension, or a pension in payment. But across the forms Mr S 
completed the word annuity is used in a number of places. And the forms he completed were 
just part of the information he wouldve received before taking his benefits.
Furthermore, in 2007 prior to Mr S taking money from the plans, Prudential had told Mr S he 
couldnt surrender the plans as a cash settlement, only as a pension or a pension and a 
cash lump sum. It then sent Mr S retirement packs for all of his plans that set out his options 
and provided more generic information about pensions and annuities. The retirement forms 
required Mr S to sign to say he had read and understood his income options. Mr S selected 
his income choices and signed the three forms to say he understood these. The income 
options were to take an annuity, an income for life.
Mr S says he didnt receive the information such as the Key Features Document that 
wouldve been part of the retirement pack. However, I can see he received the forms that 
were part of the pack as he has signed them and sent them back to Prudential. So I think it 
is likely as the documentation was sent as part of a pack that he wouldve received the other 
information as well as the forms. And Mr S signed to say that he understood the options hed 
selected. If he hadnt understood them or hadnt received any information about his options, 
he ought to have asked then for more information.
To take his benefits or to start receiving money from his plan Mr S had to give Prudential 
instructions about what he wanted to do. Prudential provided Mr S with the paperwork and 
his options were essentially restricted to taking payments spread out over his lifetime (an annuity). He could do this with Prudential or other pension providers. Mr S filled in the forms 
making his selections about what he wanted to do. He chose to take an income increasing 
each year, a tax-free cash lump sum and a spouses pension on each plan. Mr S signed to 
say he agreed hed understood the income options hed selected, on the forms in various 
different places the word annuity was used. This is where Mr S signed up for an annuity.
So the evidence shows that Prudential gave Mr S the required information about his pension 
and his income options (the annuities) and he selected his preferred options and signed to 
say hed understood his choices. He then received the payments for a number of years. If Mr 
S didnt think hed signed up for an annuity Id say it wouldve been reasonable to question 
then, what these payments were for?
Prudential had given Mr S the standardised information required and he chose to take his 
benefits without seeking financial advice and signed to agree hed understood his choices. 
So I cant hold Prudential responsible for Mr Ss choices or lack of understanding. Prudential 
did what was required of it as a pension provider and administrator of Mr Ss pension plans.
Mr S has also said that Prudential shouldve provided him with an enhanced annuity 
because he was a smoker. But Prudential didnt offer enhancements for smokers, so this is 
why it didnt offer him that.
So in conclusion of this issue, Prudential hasnt done anything wrong here.
Mr S now wishes to cash in his annuities and receive what is rightfully his, as he says it is his 
money. However, he invested his money in a pension with Prudential and used this money 
to buy three annuities from Prudential. So the money he invested was spent when he bought 
the lifetime annuities.
In 2014 legislation changed and pension providers can now allow customers to cash in their 
annuities if they are under £10,000. Prudential has said it has chosen not to take up this 
legislation. Prudential has not valued Mr Ss annuities as it says it doesnt allow them to be 
cashed in, so it doesnt have a valuation process. However, it has confirmed that Mr S fund 
used to purchase the annuities for each plan was over £10,000 when they were taken out in 
2007.
Having considered the circumstances of this case, I dont think Prudential is being unfair or 
unreasonable in not offering Mr S a cash-in value for his annuities. Mr S agreed to take out a 
contract with Prudential for three annuities payable for life in 2007. He has received the 
benefit of these annuities for nearly 13 years now. Each annuity increases annually and if Mr 
S dies before his wife, his wife will continue to receive the annuity for her lifetime. The values 
of these annuities are not so small that they wouldnt provide any benefit to Mr S and his 
wife. And its possible that even now, as they are escalating annuities with a 100% spouses 
pension, that they could be worth over £10,000 in any event. So I think Prudentials stance 
that they are committed to pay the annuities agreed to in 2007 is fair in these circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed with my decision but having considered all the 
evidence provided, Prudential has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the relevant 
legislation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman