DRN-2056416
The complaint
Mrs L complained about the service she received from one of Marshall Pension & Financial 
Planning Ltd's appointed representatives, and about the representative's conduct and 
honesty. Ill refer to the representative as Mr H.
What happened
Mrs L was introduced to Mr H at a local support centre for cancer sufferers. She sought 
advice from him about getting access to the funds from her pension early due having an 
inoperable, terminal brain tumour. At the time, Mr H was an appointed representative of 
another business (who Ill refer to as "F"). Mr H told Mrs L he would make enquiries with the 
pension schemes
Mr H met with Mrs L for a second time seven months later. Mr H was now one of Marshall's 
appointed representatives. Nearly three months later (so roughly 10 months after the first 
meeting) Mr H texted Mrs L to say he'd received the necessary information from the pension 
schemes. At a third meeting a few weeks later Mrs L says Mr H told her the approximate 
value of the pensions and that he was confident she'd be able to access the funds if a doctor 
confirmed she was unable to return to work. Mrs L later contacted the pension schemes 
directly, who told her that Mr H had never made any contact with them. Mr H later admitted 
that he hadn't contacted the schemes and that he'd tried to 'sugar coat' the situation by 
saying that he had.
Mrs L complained to Marshall about what had happened. She also referred to various 
concerns about Mr H's conduct after the complaint had been raised eg him completing 
documents after the fact, and him deliberately altering documents in his favour and to her 
detriment. She referred to being strung along with lies and false promises. Marshall issued 
Mrs L with its final response to her complaint. It said Mr H failed to take the necessary 
actions or obtain the information needed regarding whether any transfer of the pensions 
could be made. It apologised and offered Mrs L £1,000 compensation. Mrs L remained 
unhappy as she didn't think Marshall properly considered the points she'd made about
Mr H's conduct.
What I provisionally decided
I issued a provisional decision which explained the reasons why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below.
Mr H
Much of Mrs L's complaint concerned Mr H being able to continue giving people financial 
advice and exploiting other vulnerable consumers. My remit only allowed me to consider 
and decide whether Marshall (and by extension Mr H) treated Mrs L fairly in the specific 
circumstances of her complaint. I didn't have any authority over Mr H as an individual 
financial adviser. So I couldn't comment on or decide whether he was/is fit to be a 
financial adviser.
I also couldn't get involved in Marshalls day to day business activities. So whether it 
continued to have Mr H as one of its appointed representatives was a matter between it 
and Mr H.
The service Mrs L received
When deciding this type of complaint I usually look firstly at whether a business did 
something wrong and/or treated a consumer unfairly. If a business did that I then go on 
to look at whether the consumer lost out as a result - either financially or due to suffering 
unnecessary distress or inconvenience.
I didn't think I needed to dwell on the first issue too much. That was because Marshall 
had accepted that things went wrong and that Mrs L was treated unfairly - even though it 
might not have specifically agreed with her on Mr H's conduct or addressed all her 
concerns. I thought the real issue for me to decide was what Marshall needed to do to 
put things right.
Condition applied to Marshalls offer
Marshall's offer was worded in a way that if Mrs L accepted the £1,000 she agreed to 
keep the matter confidential. I didn't think that was fair. I thought that to essentially gag 
Mrs L so that she couldn't let others know about her experience came across as it being 
'hush money'. I was satisfied the offer was an attempt to resolve Mrs L's complaint. But I 
didn't think it should have come with this type of condition attached. I'd discussed this 
with Marshall and it had agreed to remove the condition from the offer.
Complaint handling
The rules for what a business must do when it receives a complaint are set by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Generally I'm not able to look at how a financial business 
handled a complaint. There are nevertheless times when I can, and I thought this was 
one of those cases.
However, I didn't think it was necessary to do so because even if I found in Mrs L's 
favour on the points she made it wouldn't have made a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint. That was because I couldn't fine or punish Marshall because it didn't handle 
the complaint properly. And even if Marshall had addressed all the points Mrs L made 
within the relevant timescales, my conclusion on what it needed to do to put matters right 
would have been the same. It would also remain the case that I couldnt specifically 
comment on Mr H.
Financial losses
Mrs L said she'd been significantly disadvantaged financially up until she was able to 
access her pension in January 2020. Shed been receiving two benefits/allowances 
which she could manage on; but from November 2018 her income from them reduced 
because one of the benefits stopped. So from then she was faced with two options  
cutting costs or dipping into savings to maintain the existing levels of spending. She 
chose the latter on the strength of the positive assurances shed been receiving from Mr 
H about being able to access her pension.
Mrs L provided a further explanation about the cost-cutting she would have done and 
what she spent money on that she otherwise wouldnt have. She mentioned things like:ousing savings when she otherwise would have divided this by the nine years she 
had to reach 55 when she could ordinarily access her pensions  thereby giving 
her around £1,000 each year to spend
ousing joint savings for home improvements
ojoining a gym to help her rehabilitation when she otherwise would have just 
walked
ocost cutting by not getting a new car when the lease on the old one expired, by 
the children not going to sports clubs, by not having a cleaner and by not buying 
her daughter a new laptop for her exams.
I thought it was likely that Mrs L spent money on things she otherwise wouldnt have 
bought had she known the true position regarding the work Mr H hadnt done  so she 
had suffered a financial loss. But I found it difficult to place an exact figure on the loss as 
there were many unknowns and plusses and minuses to the argument. I made the 
following points:
omoney was spent on things that might not otherwise have been bought (eg home 
improvements, the car, the laptop) but Mrs L and her family had received the 
benefit/use of those things
oMrs L used around £5,000 from her savings from November 2018 to January 
2020 but she might have spent a little over £1,000 during that period anyway
osome costs might have been incurred even if Mrs L had known the true situation
ojoining the gym was obviously seen as beneficial to Mrs Ls rehabilitation (would 
walking have been as beneficial? could the gym membership have been 
cancelled?)
othere would have been a savings regarding the sports clubs, but that would have 
been at the emotional/non-financial cost of the children missing out on those 
clubs.
So I came up with a figure that I thought was fair and reasonable in order to resolve the 
complaint. There weren't any specific calculations involved; I just took account of the 
various unknowns and positives/negatives (some of which are outlined above) and came 
up with a figure I thought was fair. Taking everything into account, I thought Marshall 
should pay Mrs L £2,000 compensation for the unnecessary financial losses she suffered 
due to the way Mr H handled the matter.
Distress and inconvenience
I was satisfied that Mrs L suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience due to the 
way Mr H had handled things. She was already concerned about her health and financial 
matters, which is why she sought advice in the first place. I thought it was likely it would 
have taken a few months even if things had run smoothly. But it was roughly 18 months 
from when Mrs L first met Mr H until she was able to access her pension. For it to take 
that long was, in my opinion, purely due to Mr H. This meant the concern/worry she had 
(which I think would have been significant) was unnecessarily longer than it should have 
been.
There was also the additional distress Mrs L suffered when she discovered that Mr H 
hadn't done anything meaningful and had essentially strung her along. And the 
inconvenience of having to chase Mr H and Marshall once it became apparent things 
had gone awry.
However, Marshall had offered Mrs L £1,000. In my opinion, that adequatelyreflected 
Mrs Ls unnecessary suffering. So I didnt think Marshall needed to pay further 
compensation in this respect.Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs L accepted my decision, although she made some points. She understood my rationale 
in respect of how Marshall had handled her complaint and asked whether this was 
something I could refer to the regulator. She felt my use of the word 'rehabilitation' in respect 
of her joining the gym underplayed the situation as she was recovering from 14 months of 
surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Regarding the gym v walking points, Mrs L said 
any movement helped as she was weak at the time; but she had to walk everywhere anyway 
as she couldn't drive. She also said that once she became aware that Mr H had lied to her 
she cancelled the gym membership and stopped as many of the outgoings as she could.
Marshall made various points. It said Mrs L had raised some issues that weren't in the 
original complaint and it asked when she spent the money I'd referred to  given that the 
benefit stopped in November 2018 and Marshall's response in September 2019 confirmed 
that Mr H hadn't arranged access to the pension. It also said some delays occurred while
Mr H was Fs appointed representative  and it had issues with how Mr H was supervised by 
F and how F has conducted itself throughout this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I don't think it's an issue if some issues have changed or have been added since Mrs L first 
complained. This is because the crux of the complaint  the service she received and Mr H's 
conduct/honesty  has remained constant throughout. I also have an inquisitorial remit when 
investigating complaints, which means Im able to look beyond the specific points and issues 
the parties raise (as long as I don't stray too far from the essence of the original complaint).
Im aware that when Mr H first met with Mrs L he was F's appointed representative. The 
information I have shows that Mr Hs employment with F ended three months after the first 
meeting with Mrs L. So I accept what Marshall says in that some delays and poor handling 
occurred while Mr H wasn't its appointed representative. However, I've seen an email F sent 
to Mrs L after the complaint had been made which said it had been in discussion with both 
Marshall and Mr H and it had been decided that Marshall would take the lead in the 
investigation. In any event, Mrs L brought a complaint to us against Marshall, not F. And it's 
that complaint I've considered.
If Marshall feels F should contribute towards what it's now being required to pay, it's free to 
discuss the matter directly with F. Similarly, if it feels F has acted inappropriately in this 
matter it's free to raise that with the relevant authority.
Mrs L's losses I had considered were effectively from November 2018 when her income 
reduced and she started using savings to maintain the previous level of spending. She's 
explained in response to my provisional decision that she reduced that spending as much as 
possible once she became aware that Mr H hadn't made any progress on releasing her 
pension funds and I have no reason to doubt that. I'm certainly not persuaded that any 
spending was reckless, unnecessary or unreasonable.
In addressing Mrs L's point about Marshall's complaint handling, I won't be referring this 
matter to the regulator. That's not something we ordinarily do, although we will do so if we
 
feel a matter is a widespread problem that the regulator should know about. I'm not 
persuaded that's the case here.Putting things right
When responding to my provisional decision both Mrs L and Marshall sought clarity on what 
the final payment should be. My conclusion was (and remains) that:
Marshall's compensation offer of £1,000 is fair in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs L suffered; and
Marshall should pay Mrs L £2,000 compensation in recognition of the financial losses 
she incurred.
So effectively that is a total payment of £3,000  the £1,000 Marshall had already offered 
plus the extra £2,000 I have awarded. The original £1,000 isnt included in my final decision 
below as it was already on the table and its not something extra Im making Marshall pay.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold this complaint. I require Marshall Pension & 
Financial Planning Ltd to remove the confidentiality clause from its offer, and to pay Mrs L
£2,000 compensation in respect of her financial losses.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman