DRN-3017643
The complaint
Mrs S complains about success fees Harwood Claims Management Limited (trading as 
Hidenda) charged her for pursuing payment protection insurance (PPI) claims on her behalf. 
She says she didnt engage Hidendas services.
What happened
In early 2020, Mrs S received settlements from a lender for mis-sold PPI. Hidenda invoiced 
her for success fees. 
Mrs S said she was sure shed never signed a contract with Hidenda and asked to see a 
copy of it. Hidenda sent documents which appear to have been signed electronically in July 
2019. The name on the documents was Mrs Ss previous surname, as was the electronic 
signature. 
Mrs S raised a complaint with Hidenda. She said shed never signed any document for 
Hidenda to represent her regarding the PPI. She said shed only ever used her new family 
name since she remarried in 2016. She would never have signed a document in her 
previous name.
Hidenda said Mrs Ss details had been entered through one of its online advertisements in 
July 2019. During this process, Mrs S had electronically signed Hidendas letter of 
engagement. Hidenda said it had submitted a data request to the lender for the mis-selling of 
PPI with the e-signed documents received. The lender had upheld the claims and offered 
Mrs S settlements on four of her accounts and had confirmed to Hidenda these had been 
paid. Hidenda said Mrs S had not requested to cancel its service at any point and it believed 
it had successfully achieved a refund for her. 
Mrs S remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that the evidence provided showed Mrs S had signed documents giving Hidenda authority to 
deal with her claim and that its fee was due.
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators view. She made some further comments relating to 
the signature on the documents and her direct contact with the lender. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Hidenda says Mrs S applied for a free PPI check online and has sent us screenshots to 
show what she would have seen when she did this. This involved providing some personal 
information as well as details of the lenders the applicant wanted to make claims against. 
The applicant was required to provide an electronic signature to be used for the letter of 
authority and letter of engagement. By submitting the online form, they agreed to Hidendas 
letter of engagement and terms and conditions. In doing so they gave Hidenda authority to 
pursue a settlement against lenders for PPI and agreed to pay a fee of 20% (plus VAT) for 
successful claims.
 
Hidenda has provided a screenshot to show that its letter of authority and letter of 
engagement were signed electronically on 3 July 2019. The name and electronic signature is 
for Mrs B (rather than Mrs S). The contact details and date of birth appear to relate to Mrs S. 
Mrs S has acknowledged that the information Hidenda had related to her, but she says she 
provided it over the phone. Shes adamant she didnt provide her signature electronically or 
otherwise and shes certain she wouldnt have signed using her former surname.
 
Mrs S has acknowledged that the signature on the documents Hidenda has provided looks 
like the signature she used to use. But she says its not one she would have done in a 
digital way and she wouldnt know how to do it. Shes suggested that Hidenda copied it 
from something she previously signed (which wasnt for Hidenda). She says she hadnt used 
that signature since 2016. 
I think its unlikely that Hidenda would have been able to obtain a document with Mrs Ss 
signature without being able to show that it had authority to do so. In order to gain 
information from the lender, it would have needed to provide a letter of authority with her 
signature. It seems more likely that Mrs S provided her signature online, although I 
appreciate, she might not remember doing so. As she was pursuing mis-sold PPI relating to 
accounts held in her previous surname, I think its likely that she used her old signature for 
this reason.
Mrs S has suggested we contact the lender in order to substantiate her version of events. 
Mrs S might have contacted the lender herself, but this wouldnt show that she hadnt also 
given Hidenda authority to pursue her PPI claims on her behalf. Mrs S has commented that 
the lender wrote to her directly and didnt mention a third party. Shes provided a copy of a 
letter they sent to her in November 2019 which acknowledged her PPI query and said they 
would log it as a complaint. But Hidendas system notes show it received a copy of the letter. 
Hidenda has also provided copies of letters it received from the lender advising it of their 
settlement offers to Mrs S. And I dont think Hidenda would have been aware of the 
settlement offers if it hadnt been advised of them by the lender. So, the lender appears to 
have recognised Hidenda as Mrs Ss representative in the PPI claims.
 
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mrs S but on balance I think shes likely to 
have engaged Hidendas services, even if she doesnt remember doing so. It follows that I 
think its fair for Hidenda to charge Mrs S its success fees. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman