DRN-1431019
Complaint
Mrs H says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.           
Background
This complaint is about six high-cost short-term credit instalment loans Mr Lender provided 
to Mrs H. Mrs Hs first loan was provided in September 2016 and her last loan in June 2018.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Hs complaint and thought the loans from loan four onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Mr Lenders response to our adjudicators assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mrs H 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint. Having done so, I think Mr Lender 
should reasonably have seen that Mrs H was unlikely to have been able to make her 
payments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan 4. 
I say this because by this stage Mrs H exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further 
loans shortly after repaying previous ones. I've seen that loan 2 was taken less than a month 
after loan 1 was repaid and loans 3 and 4 were taken on the same day as a previous loan 
was repaid. Loan 4 was for three times the amount of loan 3 too. In my view, this ought to 
have alerted Mr Lender to the fact that Mrs H may well have been borrowing to cover the 
hole making payments to Mr Lender was leaving in her finances. Yet Mr Lender kept lending 
to Mrs H even when this pattern was repeated for loans 5 and 6.
I think that Mrs H lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Hs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
 
the number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mrs Hs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 6 and Mr Lender should put things right.
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mrs H paid on loans 4 to 6;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loan 4 from Mrs Hs credit file;
 
the number of loans taken from loan 5 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 5 and 6 should be removed from 
Mrs Hs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Hs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mrs H compensation as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman