DRN-4060380
The complaint
Mr P complains that, because of the problems that occurred with The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limiteds (Prudential) online systems when he asked an adviser to make a single 
contribution to his pension plan, it was allocated to the following tax year  which meant he 
infringed the allowance rules and suffered a tax penalty on his contribution. 
He wants the contribution to be backdated to the tax year that his application was made and 
accepted by Prudential.
What happened
Mr P wanted to make a single net contribution of £40,000 to his Prudential Retirement 
account. So his adviser sent the money to Prudential and keyed an application onto its 
systems on 31 March 2021. Prudential acknowledged the request and said it was being 
processed that same day. It said it would revert to Mr Ps adviser if any further information 
was needed. It provided an illustration for the single premium contribution.
 
The following day Prudential emailed Mr Ps adviser and said it required a signed declaration 
to continue with the application. The declaration could be in the form of a form signed and 
completed by Mr P, an e-signature, or an adviser digital declaration on Mr Ps behalf. 
Prudential provided a link for the digital declaration and set out its other requirements which 
related to the lifetime and annual allowances. 
As no reply was received Prudential sent out the request again on 9 April 2021. Mr Ps 
adviser returned the declaration on 12 April 2021 asking if the contribution would still be 
applied for the previous tax year as requested, or the new tax year. When it was clear the 
contribution would be applied to the new tax year the adviser complained on Mr Ps behalf. 
He said he had input the application for the single contribution on 31 March 2021 and had 
been advised the previous month that a signed declaration wasnt required for that kind of 
transaction. So he didnt think Prudential should have delayed applying the funds until a 
declaration had been received.  
Prudential didnt uphold the complaint. It said the application had been made through one of 
its two systems that required a separate client declaration. It said it had requested the 
declaration on 1 April but didnt receive a completed form until 12 April 2021  which meant 
the contribution wasnt applied to Mr Ps plan until the new tax year. Prudential also noted 
that to guarantee the contribution being applied within the 2020- 2021 tax year it needed to 
receive an application by 26 March 2021  so it couldnt have guaranteed the contribution 
would be allocated in time anyway. 
The adviser said that he wasnt able to choose the channel through which he carried out an 
online journey to make the single contribution. Prudential explained that if the adviser had 
used a particular route to make the application it would have come through to it on a different 
system with the requirement of a signed declaration. 
But as the adviser didnt accept that he had made an error with the keying of the application 
 and that a declaration shouldnt have been required and therefore Mr Ps contribution 
could have been allocated in the correct tax year, the complaint was brought to us where 
one of our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be 
upheld making the following points in support of his view:
It would seem that Prudential operates two methods for advisers to submit 
applications on their clients behalf. One that requires a signature and one that 
doesnt. He didnt think it was entirely clear to the adviser which method he should 
have used.
He thought Prudential ought to have made Mr Ps adviser aware of the specific 
requirements of each system if it operated two different systems. 
However, he had taken into account that Prudential did make the adviser aware of its 
requirement for a declaration on 1 April 2021  which would still have given the 
adviser enough time to provide the necessary information and ensure the application 
of the contribution before the end of the tax year. 
He sympathised with Mr P for the confusion over how his contribution was processed 
but thought that his adviser ought to have responded to the email of 1 April 2021  
which he thought would have resolved the issue. 
Mr Ps adviser didnt agree. He said that Prudential had received and accepted the 
contribution within the tax year that Mr P wanted it to be applied to. He thought the reason 
for the subsequent delay in applying the money was because of problems with Prudentials 
online declaration system  which he believed shouldnt have delayed the contribution being 
applied to the plan. He also noted that Prudential simply applied the contribution to the 
following tax year without confirming if this was Mr Ps intention, which has led to him 
overfunding his pension plan and incurring annual allowance charges. 
The adviser thought it would have been simple for Prudential to have contacted HMRC and 
corrected the date the contribution should have been applied  which he believed was in 
Mr Ps best interest and treated him fairly.
But as no resolution could be found the complaint was referred to an ombudsman and so it 
was passed to me to review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I reached a different outcome to the investigator. I thought that 
Mr Ps complaint should be upheld and that Prudential should, in the first instance, take the 
necessary steps to ensure Mr P was now in the position he would be had the single premium 
contribution been allocated to the 2020-2021 tax year. I made the following points in support 
of my findings:
Mr Ps adviser received correspondence from Prudential a few weeks before he 
applied a single premium contribution using an online process. The correspondence 
set out the improved online journey that single premium contributions would benefit 
from  one of which was signatureless submissions. 
So as Mr Ps adviser knew he was submitting an application for a single premium 
payment, it was unlikely he would have expected to provide a signed declaration 
alongside the application. 
It seemed unlikely the adviser would have chosen the wrong option when he keyed 
the application and Prudential had been unable to demonstrate  using screenshots 
of the process for example - that the adviser made an error during the online 
process.
But even if my assumption was incorrect Prudential knew the application was for a 
single premium addition to Mr Ps pension and ought to have processed the application in line with its new enhanced journey and waived any requirements for a 
signature or told the adviser to rekey the application using the new system  if the 
application was received using the old system. 
I accepted that Prudential had processed Mr Ps application correctly but thought it 
ought to have realised the situation and processed it using its new top up journey 
guidelines. 
I then considered how long the process took when the adviser acted upon 
Prudentials request for a signed declaration in order to work out whether the 
application could have been processed if Mr Ps adviser had acted upon Prudentials 
first request on 1 April 2021. But I didnt think it was likely the application could have 
been processed within the 2020-2021 tax year. 
I also considered Prudentials assertion that it couldnt guarantee any application 
would be processed for that tax year if it wasnt received by 26 March 2021  which I 
accepted was a safeguard to protect itself because of the likely large volume of 
applications at that time of the year. But the reality was that Prudential was ultimately 
able to process Mr Ps application within four working days which, if it had processed 
the application when it was received instead of asking for a signed declaration, 
would, more likely than not, have led to the contribution being applied to the 
2020-2021 tax year. 
I said Prudential should therefore try to ensure Mr P is now in the position he would 
have been had his single premium pension contribution been made in time to count 
towards the 2020-2021 tax year, or if not that it should refund all the tax charges 
incurred by Mr P as a result of exceeding the annual allowances.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Ps adviser accepted the provisional decision but also explained that there was in fact 
only one system that an adviser could use to submit the contribution which was called 
retirement account. He said that the old versus new system argument was something that 
happened internally with Prudential, and he had no sight of these different systems when 
submitting the application. He also confirmed it wasnt usual practice for him to sign a 
declaration on behalf of a client, so he sent the declaration to Mr P by post  which was the 
only option considering how far away he lived. He thought the timeline in obtaining the 
signature was reasonable in the circumstances. 
 
But Prudential didnt agree and wanted the following points to be taken into account prior to 
a decision: 
Its unable to tell from its records which system Mr Ps adviser logged into. But if 
there are further requirements  which there were in this case - the application 
process would default to the appropriate system. 
It asked the adviser to sign and return a simple declaration instead of asking for an 
application form that needed to be signed by Mr P. 
The reason it required a declaration was because the adviser had requested an initial 
advice charge (IAC) and the policy terms and conditions (T&Cs) dictated the need for 
a declaration in that situation. It noted an extract from the T&Cs which said we wont 
take instructions from your financial adviser in relation to setting up adviser charges 
(except where they submit your initial application form, as your agent).
It reaffirmed its tax year end processing requirements for 5 April 2021  which noted 
that single contributions as a top up to existing business needed to be submitted by 
26 March 2021 to ensure processing within the tax year. The additional Easter public 
holidays needed to be taken into account when considering the opportunity that it 
had to apply the contribution within the 2020-2021 tax year.It didnt agree that Mr Ps adviser should have ignored its email of 1 April 2021. It 
wasnt made aware by the adviser that the contribution needed to be applied within 
that tax year. Therefore, it thought the adviser ought to have followed up the email 
and queried any inconsistencies around the processing. 
There was no guarantee the contribution would be applied based on the date the 
submission was made and no indication from the adviser that the contribution 
needed to be applied to that tax year. 
But I didnt think Prudential had raised the issue of the IAC declaration previously and it 
hadnt given this as a reason for requiring a customer declaration in its final responses. So I 
asked it to provide the full extract from its T&Cs which demonstrated its point. I thought the 
excerpt it provided hadnt made any reference to the need for a signed declaration. I also 
asked Prudential to provide evidence of any other communication which may have made the 
adviser aware of this matter, as I didnt think it was reasonable for the adviser to read the full 
T&Cs of Mr Ps plan before submitting the application. 
I also asked Mr Ps adviser to comment on a letter from Prudential to Mr P dated 
31 March 2021 thanking him for his top up application, which might have suggested that a 
signed declaration would be required. The letter said changes to signature requirement - as 
part of the terms and conditions of your plan, we would normally ask you for your signature 
for some transactions. However, with the current restrictions in mind, were waiving this 
requirement for the moment to help make it easier for you during these times. For example 
well no longer require your signature for certain transactions, including top-ups. This means 
your adviser can make changes to your plan, by submitting a declaration to us. 
The adviser thought the letter applied to money out requests and changes as opposed to 
a single contribution top up to an existing plan. He also confirmed that Prudential had 
facilitated adviser charging which he demonstrated by providing a copy of the illustration 
that was given to Mr P at the time  which included an adviser charge. He thought that 
Prudentials T&Cs allowed for charging to be added without a declaration through the 
except where they submit your initial application form, as your agent part of the T&Cs.
Prudential then provided the full T&Cs for Mr Ps plan. It made the following additional points 
in support of its view:
When an adviser keys an application onto the system there are a number of options 
which dictate which system the case is filtered into. In this case a work item was 
created one minute after the case was keyed which would suggest it wasnt keyed 
correctly. A work item can only be created if a case falls out which means Mr Ps 
application wasnt keyed correctly and it wasnt a system error.
It provided screenshots of the digital journey Mr Ps adviser would have had when 
submitting the application. When he reached the section headed money in the 
adviser would have been faced with the two options of transfer in, single and regular 
contributions and top ups with money out. 
Had the adviser chosen the first option the application would have proceeded using 
the new enhanced journey. But selecting the second option  which it thought the 
adviser must have done, would have brought in the requirement for an online 
declaration. 
As Mr Ps policy is an advised product, the application could only have been made by 
an adviser. And the adviser was from the same firm which arranged the policy 
initially, so he ought to have been aware of the plans T&Cs. It thought that an 
adviser should always be aware of the T&Cs of a plan it was adding contributions to.
It didnt agree that it was reasonable for the adviser to have ignored the email from 1 April 2021. If he had responded to the email and provided the declaration the 
matter could have been resolved much sooner. And it didnt think the adviser had 
submitted the application in sufficient time to apply the contribution in any case. It 
believed the submission was outside of the dates it had set out to ensure processing 
for that tax year could be guaranteed. 
It thought it was the advisers responsibility to key the application correctly, meet its 
deadlines, and to respond to its subsequent emails. It didnt think it was therefore 
responsible for the contribution being applied to the following tax year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered the additional submissions and points raised by both parties 
I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I think Prudential should try to put 
Mr P as close as possible to the position he would have been in had his single premium 
pension contribution been made in time to count towards the 2020-2021 tax year. Ill now set 
out my reasons for reaching this conclusion.
The process of applying for the single contribution
Mr Ps adviser has explained that, following a letter he received from Prudential in 
February 2021, it noted that the top-up journey for single premium additions to Mr Ps plan 
would no longer require signatures. Ive looked carefully at that letter which stated last 
month we updated the top-up journey for transfer in transactions, and we're now very 
pleased to announce we've also enhanced the journey for single contributions as well.
What benefits will this bring you
This enhancement means the top-up journey for single contributions has now been added to 
the improved online services for Retirement Account.
You and your clients will benefit from:
 Signatureless submissions
 Straight through processing
 Ability to save illustrations and use them at a later date for the relevant application
 More automated checks, streamlining the process
 Consistency with the new business journey.
In the meantime, if youre looking to submit other top-up transactions, such as a regular 
contribution, or those including a money out request in the same transaction, youll need to 
use the existing journey which requires a declaration.
I think this letter was clear that any single premium top up to an existing plan wouldnt 
require any additional processing or a signature  as well as some other processing benefits. 
So I think it was reasonable to assume that, as Mr Ps request was to add a significant 
contribution to his existing pension plan, an application to apply this contribution would be 
processed under this new enhancement.  
Of course the letter did also note that a signed declaration would be required for other top-up 
transactions such as regular contributions, so the adviser would have been aware that an 
alternative system would be in place when he submitted Mr Ps application. But I think the adviser was entitled to assume Mr Ps contribution would be signatureless. And as Ive 
seen no evidence of any further correspondence from Prudential on the matter, I think its 
reasonable to assume the application would have been submitted with those requirements in 
mind.
What actually happened here is that when Prudential received the application it had gone 
through the existing journey which meant it was highlighted as requiring a declaration. By 
the time these requirements were met the contribution wasnt applied to that tax year which 
meant Mr P had suffered a financial disadvantage. So Ive first looked at the process 
involved here to decide where the fault lies in submitting the application.
Mr Ps adviser says that when an application is made there is only one system to follow and 
any sifting of which digital journey an application follows is simply an internal matter for 
Prudential and not something an adviser can influence. Whereas Prudential has 
subsequently provided screenshots of its online application journey and explained that at a 
certain point in the process there are two options of transfer in, single and regular 
contributions and top ups with money out. It said if the adviser had chosen the first option 
the application would have proceeded using the new enhanced journey, but he must have 
selected the second option which brought in the requirement for an online declaration. It said 
that a work task was created soon after the application was keyed, and they are only 
created if an application isnt keyed correctly. 
Prudentials explanation of what may have happened is entirely reasonable, but it hasnt 
been able to provide any actual screenshots of Mr Ps application, so its view of what must 
have happened can only be supposition. Mr Ps adviser has been consistent in his 
submissions that he didnt key the application incorrectly and wasnt faced with a choice of 
how to make the application through one system to ensure it didnt require a declaration. 
But Im not persuaded that the keying of the application or that the system which the 
application eventually went through is the most important factor here. Prudential knew this 
application was for a single contribution  which fitted the requirements for the new 
enhanced signatureless journey. So it should have known that the application should have 
been submitted under the new system and if it was received after going through the old 
system Prudential ought to have either waived its requirement for a signed declaration or 
made the adviser aware that he should rekey the application.
Prudential had made it clear in its letter from February 2021 that a single contribution top up 
of an existing plan would qualify for the new enhanced digital journey. It didnt state that the 
need for a declaration depended on which system the application arrived through, it simply 
listed the benefits of such contributions which included no signature requirements and 
straight through processing, so I think any application that was eligible for the new journey 
should have treated in that way. It seems to me that if the only reason Prudential asked for 
the declaration was because the application was made under the old system and not 
because of its actual requirements under the new system, then it ought to have reconsidered 
its position regarding Mr Ps application and processed it without any further requirements. 
Prudential did suggest that the reason for the declaration being required was that, under its 
terms and conditions, as the adviser requested that his charges were to be deducted from 
the investment this would necessitate a declaration. 
I asked Prudential to provide the relevant part of the T&Cs which confirmed this point. It 
referred to section 32 taking instructions which said, we wont take instructions from your 
financial adviser in relation to setting up adviser charges (except where they submit your 
initial application form as your agent) increasing adviser charges, a transfer payment or 
drawdown transfer from your retirement account, using the value of your retirement account 
to purchase an annuity from an insurance company or if you have died. But I dont think this statement relates to the charges the adviser wanted to charge here. He 
was submitting the initial application as Mr Ps adviser and in any case Prudential had 
already set out the adviser charges in its illustration to Mr P, so it must have been content 
with them. But even if I am wrong here in my understanding of this condition, I havent seen 
any reference to these scenarios above requiring a declaration  which is one of the reasons 
Prudential gave for it requiring such a document.
Theres no suggestion here that Prudential didnt process the application in line with how it 
said it would process any application under its old system  but I dont think thats a fair and
reasonable position here given the circumstances. I think it Prudential should have 
processed the application under the new system requirements and not asked for a signed 
declaration. 
Would the application have been applied to the correct tax year if the adviser had acted 
promptly to the first declaration request?
Although Ive said that I think Prudential should have processed the single premium 
contribution without a declaration  regardless of which system it appeared to it on, I then 
also have to consider whether the contribution would have been applied before the end of 
the tax year if the adviser had acted upon Prudentials request for the declaration on 
1 April 2021. It wouldnt be fair to uphold Mr Ps complaint if it was clear that the advisers 
actions might still have mitigated the situation and ensured the contribution could have been 
applied in the tax year. 
In order to determine if the application could have been processed in time, Ive looked at 
what did happen when Mr Ps adviser acted on Prudentials request for a signed declaration 
on 9 April 2021. At that time Prudential had all the outstanding requirements and was then 
able to apply the contribution to the plan on 14 April 2021  which was four working days. 
Applying that timescale to the 1 April 2021 means the contribution would have been applied 
on Tuesday 6 April 2021 which was the first day of the new tax year. So even if the adviser 
had acted upon Prudentials instructions immediately its still unlikely the application could 
have been processed within the correct year. 
Prudential doesnt think its reasonable for me to have concluded that the adviser had good 
grounds to ignore the email it sent on 1 April 2021, requesting a signed declaration be 
returned to it. I can understand why Prudential would say that and theres no dispute about 
the clarity of its request. But as I said previously, I think the advisers expectation of this 
transaction was that no signature or declaration would be required, so I dont think its 
unreasonable that he might have dismissed the email as irrelevant or had simply been 
generated generically because Prudential had received an application.
However, even if I am wrong in my assumption of why the adviser didnt respond, if it follows 
from my earlier findings that Prudential ought to have processed this application without the 
need for a declaration or signature then the question of the email from 1 April 2021 becomes 
immaterial to the outcome of the complaint, as I dont think a declaration ought to have been 
requested.
Prudential has also reiterated the guidelines it issued prior to the end of the tax year outlining 
its processing requirements. These stated that for a top-up to existing plans, a single 
contribution application needed to be received by 26 March 2021. The requirements 
confirmed that there is no guarantee that your business will be processed under the 
2020/2021 tax year if the application is received after the above dates. So I need to be mindful that Prudential did set out its end of tax year processing standards and on the face 
of it Mr P couldnt have been sure his application would be processed. 
But I note the tax year end processing requirements document also had section titled new 
business application- Digital account for which single contributions needed to be submitted 
by 1 April 2021 (straight through processing only). Theres no evidence to show that Mr Ps 
application wasnt digital  Prudential told the adviser to key the application online himself - 
so this would suggest that if Prudential had processed the contribution as I believe it ought to 
have done then it had effectively guaranteed processing it within that tax year. 
 
But in any case, Ive already established that Prudential was able to process Mr Ps 
application within four working days in the end, and I note that much of the process was 
automatic and carried out digitally  including the money already being paid to Prudential by 
31 March 2021. 
So I dont think theres sufficient evidence to support the claim that Prudential couldnt have 
processed this application within the 2020-2021 tax year. I know that the 2020-2021 tax year 
wasnt specified by the adviser on the application form and that Prudential would have had to 
process a large volume of business before the tax year end. But I think if a different tax year 
had been required by Mr P that ought to have been noted on the form  but not if the 
application was submitted during the current tax year. Im also mindful of the fact that there 
was a public holiday over this period, but Im satisfied that it would have been reasonable for 
Prudential to have processed the application when it was received, instead of asking for a 
signed declaration. And in my view if no declaration had been requested the contribution 
could have been allocated to and included in the 2020-2021 tax year.
Putting things right
Although I think Prudentials actions were primarily responsible for the fact that Mr Ps single
contribution wasnt allocated to the 2020-2021 tax year, Mr P isnt looking for compensation
other than to have the contribution backdated to the correct tax year. And Prudential said it
wasnt willing to contact HMRC to do that as it hadnt made an error.
My understanding is that, where an error has been made, pension providers can work
with HMRC to correct a transaction. Prudential should therefore take the necessary steps to
ensure that Mr P is now in the position he would have been, had his single premium pension
contribution been made in time to count towards the 2020-2021 tax year. That seems a
reasonable resolution to the matter in this case.
However, if HMRC is unable to correct the transaction, then an alternative resolution would
require Prudential to refund all the tax charges incurred by Mr P as a result of exceeding the
annual allowances  so that he doesnt incur any financial losses as a result of Prudentials
error here.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ps complaint against The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited. 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should correct Mr Ps tax position as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman