DRN-3573267
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC updated his credit file with adverse information after it 
had advised him this would not happen.
What happened
Mr D asked Lloyds to remove him from a joint account due to a marital dispute. Lloyds said it 
could not do this whilst the account was overdrawn. As Mr D had received legal advice not to 
repay the debt, a dispute marker was added to the account. This was initially added to Mr 
Ds sole account in error, but later moved to the joint account. This account exceeded its 
authorised overdraft limit due to interest charges. When Mr D contact Lloyds to check that 
this would not affect his credit file he was told it would not be reported. This advice was 
however incorrect and late payment markers were added to his credit file. Mr D says he 
would have repaid the debt had he known this would happen. 
He complained to Lloyds saying he wanted the adverse data removing and the joint account 
closing. Lloyds accepted it gave incorrect advice and so arranged for the adverse data to be 
removed. It apologised and paid £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.  Mr D later repaid the overdraft and was removed from the joint account.
Mr D says the banks error impact his credit rating and access to credit at a time when he 
needed to secure another mortgage putting him under a large amount of stress.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ds complaint. He said Lloyds had put Mr D back in the position 
he would have been in had the incorrect information never been provided by removing the 
adverse information from his credit fille. But he thought £200 was a more appropriate level of 
compensation. He recognised Mr D had been removed from the account which his other 
request when he brought his complaint to us.
Lloyds agreed with this assessment and accepted it need pay a further £150 compensation. 
Mr D disagreed that £200 was fair compensation, saying it did not recognise the damage 
Lloyds did to him financially and the impact it had on his mortgage capacity. He asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, as some of it is here, I have reached my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I think is most likely given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I am upholding Mr Ds complaint, in so far as I agree with the recommendation that the 
compensation be increased to £200 in total.
It is not in dispute that Lloyds gave Mr D inaccurate advice. When he brought his complaint 
to this service the resolution asked for was that the adverse data be removed from his credit 
file and that he be removed from the joint account. Both these tasks have been completed. 
In response to the investigators assessment Mr D said Lloyds cost him a lot as his reduced 
mortgage capacity meant he missed out on properties when prices were lower. He did not 
provide any more precise or specific evidence of his financial loss. I asked both parties for 
details of the mortgage application Mr D refers to.  He recalls he received an offer for 
£210,000 in May 2021 but hasnt given any more detail that has allowed Lloyds, or its 
subsidiary, to locate this offer. It has explained that if the offer was never progressed the 
information would only be held for six months. 
I also asked Mr D for a copy of his full credit file to try to understand the wider circumstances 
at the time he applied. He declined to provide this, saying as Lloyds corrected the entries the 
report would not show how Lloyds had impacted his credit rating and consequently his 
access to credit. 
This means, based on the available evidence, I cannot fairly conclude that Lloyds need pay 
Mr D more than the recommended £200 compensation. I have not seen enough evidence to 
conclude with certainty that solely Lloyds incorrect advice about the later payment markers 
depressed Mr Ds mortgage capacity. I note the joint account was not significantly over its 
overdraft limit, and I also note from a separate complaint Mr D made to Lloyds that he was 
trying to move his existing joint mortgage to an interest-only product at around the same 
time. There are a number of factors that impact a mortgage application, and I find, on 
balance, there will most likely have been more than one reason that Mr D was offered the 
mortgage value he was. I cannot fairly reach a different conclusion based on the evidence I 
have seen.
It follows I think £200 is suitable recognition for the trouble Lloydss incorrect advice caused 
Mr D. As the investigator said, and I agree, a higher level than the bank initially paid is 
appropriate given Mr Ds circumstances at the time and his proactive attempts to understand 
the impact on his credit file.  
Putting things right
Lloyds must now pay Mr D the additional £150. I note it has already requested the account 
details for this payment. Mr D can provide these direct to the bank, or to our investigator, as 
soon as possible.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ds complaint; Lloyds Bank PLC must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman