DRN-3661168
The complaint
Miss G complains about how Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as 
Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) handled the end of her hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Miss G entered into a hire purchase agreement for a new vehicle with MBFS in March 2018. 
The agreement required Miss G to make 36 monthly payments, followed by an optional final 
payment (OFP). It was due to end in March 2021. 
In January 2021 Miss G agreed with MBFS to extend the agreement for three months, she 
agreed new monthly rentals, which reduced the value of the OFP, and the agreements new 
end date was June 2021. Miss G says MBFS told her she could only extend the agreement 
for three months at a time, but shed be able to continue to extend in three month increments 
for up to 12 months. 
Miss G asked to extend the agreement again in June 2021. MBFS told Miss G she could 
only extend for one month and would then need to make a decision about whether to buy the 
car or hand it back. 
Miss G told MBFS she didnt think theyd calculated the OFP correctly, and so she didnt sign 
the documents for the one-month extension. Miss G cancelled her direct debit after making 
her last monthly payment and says that MBFS told her the OFP wouldnt be taken from her 
account. 
 
Miss G complained to MBFS in June 2021 when the OFP was taken from her account. She 
was unhappy that more than £14,000 had been taken without her consent, and she 
complained that the calculation for the OFP was incorrect. MBFS returned the OFP to Miss 
G on the same day it was taken. 
MBFS sent Miss G their final response to her complaint. They said the OFP figure was 
correct but apologised that the balance was taken from her account. They said they 
shouldve blocked this payment temporarily whilst the extension was agreed. They offered 
Miss G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Unhappy with this, Miss G brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said 
she received conflicting information from MBFS over the phone and by email about 
extending the agreement and making payments whilst the OFP was reviewed. Miss G says 
the OFP isnt right because she paid a deposit for the vehicle, and this hasnt been 
considered. 
Our investigator gave her view that the extension of the agreement was a commercial 
decision for MBFS to make, so whilst it was disappointing that Miss G was unable to extend 
the agreement as shed been told she could, this wasnt something we could ask them to do. 
She said she was satisfied that Miss Gs deposit wasnt considered, and so the OFP was 
wrong. She recommended that MBFS allow Miss G to purchase the vehicle for the correct 
OFP without making any additional payments and remove any adverse information from 
Miss Gs credit file. 
Our investigator said Miss G wasnt deprived of the funds for long when the OFP was taken 
from her account, but MBFS should pay Miss G an additional £100 compensation to fairly 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused in having such a large amount taken from her 
account. 
MBFS didnt respond to our investigators recommendations. 
Miss G didnt agree. She said its not fair that MBFS changed their mind about how and 
when she could extend the agreement. Miss G said she was told she could continue to make 
monthly payments without signing to extend the agreement whilst the OFP was reviewed, 
but she was then told she had to sign for the extension. Miss G said the compensation for 
the funds being taken from her account should be higher. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Extension of the agreement and information provided
The hire purchase agreement that Miss G entered was for a period of 36 months. Ive 
reviewed the agreement, and it doesnt contain a provision for extending it. So, whilst Miss G 
wanted to extend the agreement for a longer period of time at its new end date in June 2021, 
MBFS werent required to offer any period of extension to the agreement. 
I appreciate that it mustve been disappointing for Miss G to be told she couldnt continue to 
extend the agreement as shed been led to believe. But, under the terms of the agreement 
MBFS were able to ask Miss G to either return the vehicle or pay the OFP once the original 
end date of the agreement had passed. It was a business decision for MBFS about whether 
to extend and how long any extension might be. 
Miss G has said she was frequently told one thing on the phone, and another in writing. As 
Ive set out above, MBFS were under no obligation to agree to an extension or continuing 
payments outside of the terms of the agreement. They were able to ask for return of the 
vehicle or payment of the OFP at any time once the agreement had ended. So, whilst I 
appreciate that it mustve been frustrating for Miss G to believe the payments or extensions 
were allowed, I cant say that MBFS did anything wrong when they ultimately asked Miss G 
to pay the OFP or hand the car back. 
OFP calculation
Ive seen evidence that Miss G made a £1,000 payment to the dealership when acquiring the 
vehicle, and shes described this as a deposit. Ive also seen evidence of the invoice for the vehicle, which sets out the sale price of the 
vehicle as £29,000 and confirms a £1,000 deposit has been received from Miss G. The net 
total due is £28,000.
The agreement sets out a finance payment of £29,000 and doesnt contain a deposit. Our 
investigator asked MBFS to provide evidence of what the £1,000 Miss G paid was used for, 
but no information has been received. 
On the balance of probabilities and based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied that Miss 
G paid a £1,000 deposit for the vehicle, and that this shouldve been reflected on the  
agreement with MBFS. So, Im satisfied that this deposit wasnt considered when the OFP 
was calculated and therefore MBFS need to recalculate the OFP with the deposit included. 
Miss G has retained use of the vehicle and hasnt made a payment since June 2021. Miss G 
didnt sign the extension documents that MBFS provided in June 2021 because she didnt 
think the OFP was correct. Based on the evidence, I think if the OFP had been corrected in 
June 2021, Miss G likely wouldve arranged to pay it and purchase the vehicle. So, MBFS 
should recalculate the correct OFP and allow Miss G to purchase the vehicle without making 
any additional monthly payments. 
If Miss G now doesnt wish to purchase the vehicle, she will need to pay for the months that 
shes had use of it until its returned. 
Our investigator said that MBFS should remove any adverse information from Miss Gs 
credit file relating to the end of the agreement. Miss G has questioned whether there was 
any adverse information recorded on her credit file. 
Miss Gs agreement ended some time ago, and shes retained use of the vehicle without 
making any payments. For the reasons outlined above Im satisfied that Miss G is able to 
either purchase the vehicle or return it and pay for the time shes had use of it. I havent 
been provided with a copy of Miss Gs credit file. But, if MBFS have recorded any adverse 
information about the end of Miss Gs agreement, Im satisfied that it would be fair for them 
to remove such records. 
Collection of the OFP
In their final response to Miss Gs complaint, MBFS accepted that theyd made a mistake in 
taking the OFP from Miss Gs account when theyd told her they wouldnt. They offered Miss 
G £100 compensation for this error, and our investigator thought this should be increased to 
a total of £200. Miss G said the amount should be higher. 
I appreciate it was a shock for Miss G to have more than £14,000 taken from her account 
unexpectedly. I note that it was returned to her the same day, so she was without the funds 
for a short period of time. All things considered, I think £200 fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss G in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance must: 
If Miss G wishes to purchase the vehicle, recalculate the optional final payment 
considering the £1,000 deposit and provide this to Miss G. If Miss G doesnt wish to purchase the vehicle, calculate the payment for use of the vehicle and arrange its 
collection. 
Remove any adverse information thats been reported to Miss Gs credit file about 
the end of the agreement
Pay Miss G a total of £200 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman