DRN-1398174
The complaint
Mrs D complains that TSB Bank plc didn't pay her interest after she switched to a new 
product. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When Mrs D switched her account to a Classic Plus she confirmed she had read the 
terms and conditions. The terms say that to receive interest account holders have to 
have paperless correspondence in place. As Mrs D didnt have correspondence set 
to paperless, she didnt qualify to receive interest under the account terms. 
Mrs D says she expected to receive 5% interest after she switched to the Classic 
Plus account in May 2017. But TSB only started paying interest after Mrs D 
complained and amended her correspondence preferences. I'm satsified Mrs Ds 
statements showed she wasnt receiving interest after she switched to the Classic 
Plus account. 
TSB contacted Mrs D in November 2017 to check whether she wanted to switch to 
paperless correspondence, but she declined. I think the terms of the Classic Plus 
account are clear and that TSB provided the correct information about how to qualify 
for interest payments. 
TSB paid Mrs D £25 because of mistakes it made when it first responded to her 
complaint. As I havent found TSB made an error by not paying interest until Mrs D 
updated her correspondence preferences and Im satisfied it dealt with her complaint 
fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman