DRN-3292546
The complaint
Mr K and Miss Ms complaint about The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform 
(Platform) relates to the level of service they received, and the information they were given 
when they asked about porting their mortgage.
What happened
On 15 February 2018 Mr K and Miss M took out a mortgage with Platform. The term was for 
33 years, although there was an introductory rate of 1.89%, fixed until 28 February 2023, 
after which the rate was to revert to Platforms Standard Variable Rate.
On 28 November 2020 Mr K and Miss M enquired about porting their mortgage to a new 
property they were wanting to buy. That property came with a Protek buildings warranty, but 
as Platform were not on Proteks list of agreed lenders, Mr K and Miss M rang Platform to 
check whether they could port their mortgage. They were promised a call back which didnt 
materialise. Mr K and Miss M rang Platform again on 4 December and the call handler told 
them they should submit a mortgage application with Proteks name as the warranty provider 
and that it shouldnt be a problem. They asked for a call back from the underwriting team as 
they were unsure about that advice, but that didnt come.
When Mr K and Miss M spoke to Platform on 12 January 2021 they were told that the 
timescales for dealing with porting applications were 10-12 weeks. Mr K and Miss M asked 
to speak to the underwriting dept and were told they would receive a call back but again they 
didnt get one. On 28 January Platform told Mr K and Miss M that they did not accept Protek 
warranties, and so for the property they were wanting to buy, they wouldnt be able to port 
the mortgage. That led to Mr K and Miss M getting a mortgage with another lender.
Mr K and Miss M lodged a formal complaint with Platform about the poor service and 
information theyd received from the call handler on 4 December. Platform upheld their 
complaint and paid them £100 in compensation. 
Mr K and Miss M also said theyd paid a £1,000 reservation deposit on their new property 
which they feared losing. Platform initially said it would consider re-imbursing that sum, but 
then on 29 March Platform asked for some further information about the deposit. On 22 April 
Platform told Mr K and Miss M that it wouldnt be re-imbursing the deposit as they had in fact 
purchased the new property and thus didnt have any loss. Platform did agree to pay them a 
further £25 to reflect the inconvenience they had been caused by Platform initially stating 
they would consider the re-imbursement.
Mr K and Miss M also asked Platform to refund the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) they 
had paid when they moved to another lender, but Platform didnt agree as they said it was 
correctly due and payable.
Mr K and Miss M were unhappy with Platforms final response and so approached this 
service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that 
Platform hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr K and Miss 
M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time Mr K and Miss M first approached Platform about porting their mortgage I am 
satisfied that they would have known about the existence of the ERC and how it might 
become payable. That is because the details are contained in the mortgage offer document 
they received when initially obtaining the mortgage (section 10). I am equally satisfied, for 
the same reasons, that Mr K and Miss M would have known that porting a mortgage was not 
automatic, and that it would be subject to any new property meeting Platforms lending 
criteria relevant at the time.
It is against this backdrop that I must assess the fairness or otherwise of Platforms dealings 
with Mr K and Miss M. I note at this stage that Mr K and Miss M decided to make a £1,000 
reservation deposit on the new property, and I understand the reasons why. That deposit 
had a cooling off period which as I understand it would have entitled Mr K and Miss M to 
have it refunded should they have changed their minds about the purchase during that 
period. Of course, that deposit was paid at a time when they did not have confirmation from 
Platform of the result of the application to port their mortgage. It is clear therefore that they 
were taking a degree of risk in making that deposit payment. 
What they did have however was a comment from the call handler on the 4 December that 
everything should be alright in respect of the warranty. That of course must be balanced 
against their knowledge that Platform were not on Proteks list of agreed lenders, since they 
had checked Proteks website which confirmed the same.  
The effect of the poor advice
Platform have agreed that the call handler gave Mr K and Miss M poor advice on 
4 December. They accept that what should have happened was that Platforms underwriters 
ought to have been contacted much sooner in order to answer the question about the 
warranty. If that had happened Mr K and Miss M would have had confirmation of the fact that 
Platform werent going to lend to them. It is at that point Mr K and Miss M would have had to 
decide whether they wanted to go ahead with their purchase or not. 
Mr K and Miss M have said that if they had been told in early December that Platform 
wouldnt lend on their new property they would have pulled out of the property purchase as 
they were in the cooling off period. That would have meant their deposit would have been 
returned but of course they would not have then bought the new property. But the reality is 
that when they were told that Platform wouldnt lend on their proposed new property, they 
were outside the cooling off period, meaning that if they didnt go ahead they would lose that 
deposit. Of course, there were other considerations too, namely that pulling out at that time 
might have resulted in the loss of the sale of their own property and the loss of fees they had 
already paid to professionals. 
I can empathise with Mr K and Miss M because they found themselves in a dilemma, but, 
they werent compelled to buy the new property. As I have said, I accept that this could have 
led to the loss of the deposit, but Platform have said that in those circumstances they were 
willing to consider re-imbursing that. And of course, I do take account that in balancing 
whether to risk losing the £1,000 deposit or go ahead and incur the ERC, it was the latter 
which was by far the greater. I also acknowledge that there were other factors at play here in Mr K and Miss M deciding to proceed with their purchase, such as potentially missing out on 
the benefits of the stamp duty window, schools and commute times as they have mentioned. 
The question becomes whether Mr K and Miss M proceeded to buy the property because of 
Platforms wrong advice or whether they proceeded for other reasons. I dont think I could 
fairly say that the reason Mr K and Miss M were in this dilemma as to whether to pull out of 
the proposed purchase or go ahead with it was because of Platform. In my view the reason 
why Mr K and Miss M found themselves in that position was because they took the risk to 
put the reservation deposit down before being certain that they would get their mortgage 
ported by Platform. I fully accept that in making that decision Mr K and Miss M were relying 
to some degree on the advice given by the call handler but they also knew that there was a 
large query over whether they would be allowed to port because (a) their application had to 
be considered by the underwriters, which they knew, and (b) because Proteks own website 
had given an indication that Platform were not likely to lend on that property.
I think this does point to a finding that Mr K and Miss M were in fact content to purchase the 
new property, rather than looking around for another which Platform might have allowed their 
mortgaged to be ported to.
The failure to make call backs
Platform have agreed that there were occasions when call backs were promised but not 
made and have apologised for this. This is quite obviously poor service.
The delays in processing the application
Platform accept that their timescales for porting mortgages were lengthened but explained 
that this was due essentially to the rise in the volume of applications they had received 
leading to difficulties in processing. They did not however agree that their timescales were 
unreasonable. I can see that the time period from when Mr K and Miss M first enquired 
about porting the mortgage to when they were told it could not be done, was exactly 2 
months. That is a long time, but I dont think it has altered the outcome here. I say that 
because when Mr K and Miss M made their application they already knew it was unlikely to 
be approved because they knew the Protek warranty would be a problem. 
The £1,000 deposit refund
I have partly covered this issue above. This was a risk since any application made could 
have been declined for a multitude of reasons.  It is correct however that Platform did say in 
a letter 25 March that they would consider refunding the deposit. It is clear to me that the 
basis of this offer was that Platform were under the impression that Mr K and Miss M had 
decided not to proceed with the purchase and thus were unable to recover the deposit. As 
they did proceed with the purchase, they didnt lose any money since the deposit was 
deducted from the purchase price in the usual manner. They have therefore suffered no 
financial loss and I cant say it would be fair or reasonable for Platform to re-imburse this.
The ERC
Mr K and Miss M dont dispute the principle of the ERC. The ERC was triggered, in their 
case, by the early redemption of the mortgage. Once Mr K and Miss M knew that Platform 
werent going to agree to port the mortgage to the new property, they were always going to 
have to redeem their mortgage with Platform if they wanted to buy the new property. In the 
light of this fact they made the decision to go ahead with the purchase of the new property 
which necessitated the redemption of the mortgage with Platform. That triggered the ERC as 
they knew it would. I dont think Platform have done anything unfair here as they have simply 
stuck to the terms of the original agreement. 
Platform has accepted that it didnt get certain things right and because of that it 
compensated Mr K and Miss M with £125. Mr K and Miss M dont think that is enough to put matters right, so Ive given this some further thought. I think what Platform paid is fair and 
reasonable for the errors made in giving the wrong advice, failing to make return calls, and 
giving the wrong indication that the deposit would be paid. It does not reflect any of the other 
points of complaint and as I have found Platform made no errors there, overall, I think what 
has been paid is sufficient.
So, although Mr K and Miss M will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst 
Platform have indeed made errors, I cant say Platform has subsequently acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman