DRN-3271251
Complaint
Mr V has complained about the overdraft charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied to 
his current account. Hes said the charges caused him financial difficulty.
Background
Mr Vs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that HSBC had 
done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicator 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Weve already explained why were only able to look at the charges applied to Mr Vs 
account from August 2016 onwards. As this is the case, this decision is only looking whether 
HSBC acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr V from August 2016.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr V if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Vs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Mr V was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr V fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where HSBC continued charging 
Mr V even though it ought to have known he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have 
realised this was the case. Ive looked through the account ledgers provided throughout the 
period concerned. And I cant see that HSBC ought to have been aware that Mr V might 
have been struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Mr V used his overdraft regularly during the period Ive looked at and he did go over his limit 
on occasion. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr V 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions account going from the account. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr V wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted HSBC to potential financial difficulty. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive also thought about the payment Mr V received from HSBC 
regarding its historic collection practices. However, this was a refund for a separate 
unrelated matter. And most importantly, for the reasons Ive already explained, it doesnt 
mean that HSBC acted unfairly in relation to all of Mr Vs overdraft charges from          
August 2016 onwards.
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr V, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for HSBC to have proceeded adding the charges that it did add 
from August 2016 onwards. As this is the case, I dont think HSBC charged Mr V in 
circumstances where it ought to have realised that it was unfair to do so and Im not 
upholding Mr Vs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr V. But I 
hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns 
have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman