DRN-3775742
The complaint
Mr B and Mr S complain about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) dealt 
with a claim on their home insurance policy for damage to their property from a water leak. 
UKI use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to UKI includes 
these agents.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr B and Mr S had an underfloor leak at their property. A plumber was able 
to fix the leak, but Mr B and Mr S contacted UKI about the damage from the leak. UKI 
appointed a surveyor (P) to assess the damage. From Ps inspection, as well as damage 
caused by the leak, there was evidence of dry rot and spores/mould that made the property 
unsuitable to continue living in. UKI arranged for alternative accommodation for Mr B and Mr 
S. Based on Ps assessment and the presence of dry rot, UKI also appointed a loss adjuster 
(S) to assess the work needed to repair the damage caused by the leak, as well as a  
specialist firm (W) to carry out a further assessment of the property and the damage, 
specifically on the presence of dry rot. 
W inspected the property and, in their report, concluded the dry rot wasnt the result of the 
leak. Based on this, UKI made an initial cash settlement offer of £4,099 (subsequently 
increased to £5,660) for the repair of the damage caused by the escape of water (which they 
paid in September 2021). However, the settlement didnt include anything for the dry rot, as 
damage caused by dry rot was excluded under the terms of the policy. 
Mr B and Mr S challenged UKIs decision and complained, unhappy at how UKI had handled 
their claim. They said the damage was the result of the leak. They were also unhappy at 
delays in dealing with their claim, and the stress this caused them (including their mental 
health, leading to having to take time off work). They wanted UKI to reconsider their claim 
(and the decline of that part of the claim due to the dry rot exclusion).
UKI upheld the complaint in part. They apologised for the delays, upset and trouble caused 
by poor communication and service during the handling of the claim, for which they awarded 
£150 in compensation. But they didnt uphold the part of the complaint about the decline of 
cover for the dry rot at the property (which they said, based on the report of W, wasnt 
connected to the damage from the leak). They referred to the policy exclusion for damage 
caused by dry rot. Based on this, they confirmed the figure of £5,660 in full and final 
settlement of the claim for damage caused by the leak.
Mr B and Mr S then complained to this service. They were unhappy at the cash settlement 
offered by UKI, saying it wouldnt cover the damage caused solely by the leak. The leak 
would have exacerbated any underfloor damage that may have been the result of dry rot, 
and the delay in assessing their claim would also have exacerbated the damage. They were 
also unhappy at not being provided with Ps assessment and the service theyd received 
from UKI. They also thought UKIs compensation of £150 wasnt sufficient for the physical 
and mental stress theyd suffered.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint in part. She thought delays and poor communication 
from UKI had caused distress and inconvenience to Mr B and Mr S over and above what 
wed expect to see. She thought UKI should pay a further £200 in compensation, in addition 
to the £150 theyd already paid. On the settlement offered for the claim and decline of the 
element for dry rot, she thought UKIs offer was fair, and Mr B and Mr S hadnt provided any 
evidence to show it wasnt fair. While there was some delay between the assessments of P 
and W, she didnt think this made a significant difference to the remedial work needed.
Mr B and Mr S disagreed with the Investigators conclusions, so Ive been asked to review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, Mr B and Mr S raised several points. First, that UKI hadnt 
determined what damage was due to the leak and that due to dry rot. Second, they referred 
to publicly available cases where dry rot had been covered. Third, the delays in assessing 
their claim had increased the damage to their property. Fourthly, they didnt think the 
compensation figure recommended by the investigator was adequate for the stress and 
inconvenience theyd suffered, including the impact on their mental health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say Ive considered carefully what Mr B and Mr S have told us about the 
impact of the incident and how UKI handled their claim, in terms of the stress and impact on 
their wellbeing and mental health (both when bringing their complaint to this service and 
when responding to our Investigators view). Ive borne this in mind when forming my 
findings and conclusions. 
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Mr B and Mr S.
There are several elements to Mr B and Mr Ss complaint, which Ill consider in turn.  First, 
that UKI hadnt determined what damage was due to the leak and that due to dry rot. Linked 
to this, Mr B and Mr S refer to publicly available cases where dry rot had been covered. 
Second, they are unhappy at the cash settlement offered by UKI, saying it wont cover the 
damage caused solely by the leak. Third, the delays in assessing their claim increased the 
damage to their property, and the leak would have exacerbated any underfloor damage that 
may have been the result of dry rot. Fourth, they dont consider UKIs compensation of £150 
(nor the additional £200 recommended by our investigator) sufficient for the physical and 
mental stress they suffered. They are also unhappy at not being provided with Ps 
assessment and the service from UKI. 
On the first issue, Ive looked at the sequence of events from the time Mr B and Mr S told 
UKI about the leak and the damage, including how UKI dealt with the claim (including the 
assessments by P and W) as well as the settlement offered. 
When the claim was first notified to UKI, they appointed P to visit the property and assess 
the damage. From what Ive seen, this took place 10 days after the incident was notified  I 
dont think this is unreasonable. Following Ps visit, UKI initially appointed S (as a loss 
adjuster) but then reversed this decision when (following Ws report) the extent of the 
damage (and UKIs cover for it) was less than the threshold above which UKI would routinely 
appoint a loss adjuster. The claim was put on hold pending Ws visit and report.
Ws visit took place at the beginning of September, four weeks after the incident with the 
leak. While I recognise Mr B and Mr Ss concerns at the length of time to Ws visit, given the 
specialist nature of the inspection (and the need for it arising from Ps assessment) I dont 
think its an unreasonable timescale. Turning to the report itself, it clearly sets out the basis of the inspection and the findings 
about the presence of active dry rot. The report covers different areas and rooms in the 
property and includes the following comments:
1. The void space in the hallway closest to the party wall is heavily infested with 
active dry rot (serpula lacrymans) growth
4. The EOW is not the cause of the dry rot infestation but very likely contributed to 
the excessive humidity in the void space and allowed the dry rot to increase in its 
activity within the void space.
Based on these findings, Ws report recommended a remedy of full removal of all structural 
wood components, floor joist and subfloor components (as well as lower render on ground 
floor walls, to ensure no active growth behind).
Given the specialist nature of the assessment and the detailed findings and conclusions in 
the report, Im persuaded it shows the presence of dry rot at the property  and that it wasnt 
the result of the leak (although the leak may have allowed the dry rot to increase).
As the presence of dry rot was confirmed by Ws report, Ive gone on to consider UKIs 
decline to cover the cost of any work to remove the dry rot. In their final response, UKI refer 
to the following exclusion and policy booklet wording under the heading This policy doesnt 
cover:
x Just like most insurers we dont cover:
Damage caused by rot, fungus, woodworm, beetles, moths, insects or 
vermin
I think this makes it clear damage from [dry] rot isnt covered. As a general principle, where 
an insurer relies on a policy exclusion to decline a claim or part of a claim (as UKI did), then 
the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available information and 
evidence, particularly the findings and conclusions in Ws report, I think UKI have done so in 
the specific circumstances of this case. 
So, Ive concluded UKI fairly declined to cover the damage caused by dry rot. 
Ive also considered Mr B and Mr Ss linked point, the publicly available cases where dry rot 
has been covered. Having looked at these cases, I dont think they change my conclusion 
that UKI fairly declined to cover the damage from the dry rot. I say that because the more 
recent source (the other is almost six years ago) indicates insurers may cover dry rot  but 
where the cause is an insured peril or event (such as a leak). However, in this case, the 
conclusions in Ws report indicate clearly this isnt the case (the reference to the EOW  
escape of water  wasnt the cause of the dry rot). So, this hasnt changed my conclusion. 
While Ws report indicates the leak is likely to have allowed the dry rot to increase its activity, 
given the timeline of events, I dont think this would have been significant (and Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest otherwise).
Coming back to Mr B and Mr Ss first point, that UKI didnt determine what damage was due 
to the leak and that due to dry rot, Ive looked at the basis for the settlement figure paid. 
From UKIs case notes, it appears they initially made an offer of £4,099 (£3,648 net of the 
policy excess of £450) which was subsequently increased to the £5,660 final settlement 
figure (which UKI say Mr B and Mr S accepted). This figure comprises individual elements 
for stripping-out the affected areas of the property; drying; reinstatement and alternative 
accommodation for Mr B and Mr S. The higher, final settlement figure appears to have been 
increased by additional alternative accommodation costs (not the other elements). These are all elements Id expect to see included to reinstate damage of the nature caused 
by the incident. While I havent seen a detailed breakdown of the scope of work covered by 
the settlement, as it covers the elements Id expect to see, I cant say that its unfair or 
unreasonable. 
While UKI say Mr B and Mr S accepted the settlement, theyre unhappy at the settlement, 
saying it wont cover the damage caused solely by the leak. However, Ive not seen any 
evidence to support this point, nor that UKIs settlement offer was unfair (given that it would 
be based on contractor rates UKI are able to negotiate with their network of suppliers, which 
are likely to be discounted). So, I cant conclude UKI have acted unfairly in this respect.
On the point about not seeing Ps assessment, from what UKI have said, there isnt a formal 
report, rather details are uploaded onto UKIs systems. However, from what Ive seen from 
UKIs case notes (and description of Ps visit by Mr B and Mr S) the inspection included what 
Id expect (such as moisture readings). Its also clear the inspection identified the presence 
(or likely presence) of dry rot and the subsequent need for a specialist assessment (by W). 
So, this doesnt affect my conclusions.
Mr B and Mr Ss final point is about the level of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience from the incident and UKIs subsequent assessment and handling of the 
claim. UKI have recognised shortcomings in the way they handled the claim, delays and lack 
of communication. They awarded £150 in compensation, which our investigator thought 
wasnt sufficient and recommended an additional £200 (making a total of £350). 
Ive thought carefully about what would be fair compensation for Mr B and Mr S for the stress 
theyve suffered, which theyve described in detail when bringing their complaint to this 
service, and subsequently. Ive also considered my conclusions that UKI acted fairly and 
reasonably when declining to cover the damage from dry rot, and that they havent acted 
unreasonably in the cash settlement they made. Considering what Mr B and Mr S have told 
us, I think UKIs actions have caused considerable distress, upset and worry and significant 
inconvenience and disruption over a period of weeks (including a significant period in 
alternative accommodation). Taking all the circumstances into account, I think £350 is 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr B and Mr S have suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr B and Mr Ss complaint in 
part. I require U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to:
Pay Mr B and Mr S £350 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell them Mr B and Mr S accept my final decision. If they pay later than 
this, they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman