DRN-3152282
The complaint
Miss P complains that Phoenix Life Limited (PL) when it was trading as Abbey Life 
Assurance Limited, mis-sold her a unit-linked whole of life plan.
Miss P is being represented. All references to Miss P will include information received from 
her representative. 
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in detail in my provisional decision issued on 
1 November 2021, so I wont repeat that again here. 
Miss P accepted my decision. PL disagreed. It said that I had based my decision on best 
advice requirements when this did not exist Pre-A day. PL said from its records Miss P had 
a savings need and was sold a savings policy. It said that as such the policy its adviser sold 
to Miss P was a reasonable fit. It noted that the marketing material issued at the time 
adequately explained the nature of the policy and the charging structure. PL considered 
Miss P couldve chosen not to take the policy out had she not wanted to incur the charges 
and instead, invest in a deposit savings account.
So, the matter has been passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for responding to my provisional decision. However, neither party has 
said anything that changes my mind. So, my decision remains the same as that set out in my 
provisional decision. In summary, I said in my provisional decision the following points:
As PL has correctly said in its submissions to our service, before the introduction of 
the Financial Services Act 1986 which came into force in April 1988, there wasnt a 
requirement for a business to give advice but if they did give advice they needed to 
make sure this was done with reasonable care and skill. So, whilst advisers didnt 
have to make sure the policy was suitable as such, they did have to ensure that it 
was an appropriate fit for the person. This way the adviser was ensuring they 
followed the common law requirement of advising with reasonable care and skill.
Given Miss Ps situation at the time, I think its likely the adviser did provide her with 
advice. She was eighteen years old with little or no investment experience. I think its 
unlikely she decided to buy this policy without some advice to do so. I also note that 
the premiums were £10 less than the minimum requirement of £30 each month. This 
would suggest this figure was arrived at following discussions with the adviser around 
what she (Miss P) could afford to pay each month. So, Im persuaded advice was 
given and therefore, the adviser needed to ensure the policy was an appropriate fit 
for Miss P.
The policy offered Miss P guaranteed life cover. She also opted to pay for additional 
life assurance cover at a cost of £1.60 each month. The proposal form did show 
Miss Ps age and marital status (single). So, I think the adviser would have known life 
cover wasnt a reasonable fit for Miss Ps circumstances and should have advised 
accordingly.
Im not persuaded that this type of investment product was an appropriate fit for 
Miss P. In particular, looking at the charges that applied to the policy, I dont consider 
it likely that a policy with high charges in the early years, which is designed to be 
most beneficial at fifteen years, was an appropriate fit for a single eighteen year old, 
whose circumstances were highly likely to change over that period of time.
All in all, I dont think the adviser exercised reasonable care and skill when advising 
Miss P. At the very minimum, the adviser knew Miss Ps age and marital status, 
which were in the proposal form. So, despite what PL says, looking at the type of 
product Miss P was advised to purchase, I dont think the adviser met with the 
necessary legal requirements of the time. 
In terms of redress, taking everything into account, I think a more appropriate fit for 
Miss P given her age and circumstances would have been to put any money she 
could afford into a savings deposit account. This would have allowed her the 
flexibility to make withdrawals as and when she needed it without penalty. And also 
would have ensured she wasnt spending money on unnecessary life cover.
In respect of PLs further points, I have based my decision on the requirements of the time. 
As noted above this was to exercise reasonable care and skill when advising Miss P on 
whether to purchase the policy. But for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think the 
adviser met with this requirement. The plan that was sold to Miss P wasnt a savings plan. It 
was an investment plan with life assurance benefits. As such, I dont think it was a 
reasonable fit for Miss Ps need to have a savings plan. 
I also note PLs comments about the product literature. However, regardless of what this 
literature said, the adviser still had a common law duty to exercise reasonable care and skill 
when providing advice. I dont think the adviser met with this requirement in Miss Ps case. 
And I think if they had met the legal requirements of the time, Miss P would not have 
purchased the policy. 
So, whilst Ive taken PLs further submissions into account, Im still upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
Im upholding the complaint. My aim will be to put Miss P in the position she would now be in 
if shed put her money in a bank savings deposit account. I consider the appropriate 
investment return rate to be the Bank of England base rate in the circumstances of this 
complaint. So, I instruct Phoenix Life Limited to pay Miss P compensation of F, where F 
equals:
A = the premiums paid for the policy;
B = interest of Bank of England base rate on these premiums, compounded yearly, 
from the date of each investment to the date of surrender;
C = the surrender value of the investments at the date of surrender;
D = A + B - C;E = interest on D at 8% simple interest per annum from the date of surrender to the 
date of settlement;
F = D + E.
If Phoenix Life Limited considers that it is legally required to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must send a tax deduction certificate with payment. Miss P can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Phoenix Life Limited to pay Miss P the redress as set out 
under putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman