DRN-3359540
The complaint
Mr H complains that Revolut Ltd restricted and then closed his account without warning. 
Hed like the account reopened.
What happened
Mr H had an electronic money account with Revolut. In November 2020 Revolut carried out 
a review of Mr Hs account, and blocked it while they did this. They sent him a message to 
confirm this, and also ask information about his income. 
After completing the review Revolut closed Mr Hs account with immediate effect. The funds 
in the account were returned to the original source. A refund due to Mr Hs account from a 
merchant was tracked and sent to his bank account.
Mr H complained about the account closure. Mr H also said he had recently suffered the 
theft of a bicycle and damage to a mobile phone, which he was unable to claim on his 
insurance because of the account block and closure.
Revolut responded that multiple factors had been taken into account when reaching the 
decision to close the account, including Mr Hs usage. They declined to disclose the exact 
reason for the closure but referred Mr H to the terms of his account.
Unhappy with this response Mr H referred the complaint to our service. Before it was 
investigated Revolut offered Mr H £20 for the inconvenience, which was declined. 
Our investigator then reviewed the complaint but didnt think Revolut had been unfair to 
Mr H. They explained Revolut had certain legal and regulatory requirements they had to 
follow, which can lead to accounts being restricted and closed. They also agreed that 
Revoluts terms and conditions allowed them to close the account in the manner they did.
Mr H disagreed and asked for the account to be reopened. As no agreement could be 
reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking Revolut to do anything further.
As the investigator explained Revolut, like all financial businesses in the UK, have legal and 
regulatory obligations they need to fulfil when providing accounts to consumers. Having 
reviewed all the evidence Im satisfied Revolut acted in accordance with these obligations 
when they reviewed Mr Hs account, and that they were entitled to do so under the terms of 
the account. 
The terms also outline when Revolut are allowed to close an account. The terms allow them 
to end their relationship with Mr H, just as he can close his account with Revolut. I can see 
when they took this decision they informed him the same day, which is what Id expect in the 
situation. 
I can understand why Mr H would be upset by this, but I consider the decision Revolut made 
to be reasonable. As such I wouldnt expect them to compensate him for distress that is a 
result of a reasonable course of action, and I couldnt fairly ask them to reopen the account.
I appreciate Mr H may wish to know more about the decision to block then close his account. 
But Revolut has chosen not to disclose this to him and are under no obligation to do so. I 
dont think they have been unreasonable here, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to ask 
them to disclose any further information.
Revolut returned the balance of the account to Mr Hs bank account, which I consider to be a 
sensible course of action. I can see they also helped him trace and return a refund he was 
due from a merchant, which is reasonable. Revolut returned their account fee. Mr H has said 
he was $350 down but having reviewed the statements of the account I cant see that to be 
the case.
Mr Hs account came with some packaged travel insurance. Ive not seen anything in the 
terms to suggest the account had any kind of cover for bicycle theft or phone damage. I cant 
fairly say Revolut should be liable for these. 
Overall, I havent seen anything to suggest Revolut have been unfair or unreasonable in 
their decision to block and then close Mr Hs account. And Im satisfied they treated him 
fairly in helping him recover the funds in the account back to his bank account. Because of 
this, Im not asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman