DRN-3312814
The complaint
Ms F complains that her West Bay Insurance Plc home insurance premium increased 
significantly at its annual renewal in 2021. 
What happened
Ms F bought her home insurance through a well-known broker. In 2020 her annual premium 
was £555.45. But in March 2021 she received her annual renewal invitation and was 
disappointed to see that shed been offered cover, underwritten by West Bay, at an annual 
premium of £950.44. She also noted that the renewal schedule contained a number of 
inaccuracies about her property. So Ms F phoned her broker to correct the inaccuracies and, 
having done so, it quoted her for cover with another insurer at a premium of over £4,000.  
West Bay told Ms F that her premium (of £950.44) had been correctly calculated. It said itd 
taken over her former insurer and the price shed been quoted was in line with its 
underwriting criteria. It said her historic subsidence claim meant its underwriting criteria 
precluded it from offering her a new business quote. 
Ms F complained to West Bay about the increased premium, the errors in her policy 
documentation and some poor customer service shed received. West Bay looked into 
Ms Fs complaint and issued its final response in May 2021. 
It said that in December 2020 itd taken over her previous insurer which meant that future 
policies would be administered under a new underwriting criteria. It said the existing policy 
details and information migrated over to the its new system, as a result of which Ms F was 
sent documentation that included a number of errors (such as the description of her property 
etc.). But it also said that despite any errors in the text of the documents she was sent the 
price she was quoted at renewal was correct. 
As a result, West Bay said it was unable to uphold Ms Fs complaint about the price of her 
policy at renewal. It also said that it was the case that it was unable to offer her a new 
business quote for cover. It said this was because of its underwriting criteria which 
prevented new business quotes being issued for properties where there was an historic 
incidence of subsidence, such as Ms Fs. For the poor customer service Ms F had 
complained about  a failure to return her calls and the fact she didnt receive requested 
copies of her insurance schedule  West Bay apologised and paid her compensation of £75 
for any distress and inconvenience shed been caused. 
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to West Bay, Ms F complained to this service. 
She said she would like her premium to be frozen for 4 years. Our investigator looked into 
Ms Fs complaint and, in so doing, asked West Bay to provide her with some information 
about the premium increase. Having taken all the circumstances of the complaint into 
account, our investigator didnt think Ms F had been treated unfairly or unreasonably by 
West Bay so didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. 
Ms F disagreed with our investigators findings. She said this service was known for siding 
with big companies that have money to hire solicitors. She also said it was unbelievable that 
policyholders werent allowed to know how their premiums were calculated. Ms F said that 
she was initially sent a schedule that contained a number of errors so she didnt believe 
West Bays statement that the premium was based on correct information. She said the 
errors mustve affected the price quoted. Ms F said that shed rung up West Bay to ask if her 
price had increased because shed made claims. She said it wasnt fair for a new underwriter 
to penalise her because it had different underwriting criteria to the previous underwriter. 
Finally she said she wanted to know who long she had to stay with West Bay because she 
had a historic subsidence claim. 
Our investigator replied to say that underwriting information was confidential so she was 
unable to disclose it. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment I know this decision will cause Ms F, I dont think her 
complaint can reasonably be upheld; Ill explain why.
I can understand why Ms F was shocked and disappointed to receive her renewal invitation 
through her broker which included a 70% increase in her premium. And I can understand too 
why she contacted the broker and West Bay to find out why. 
Since 2021 West Bay has been the underwriter of Ms Fs policy. It took over from her 
previous underwriter. All underwriters/insurers have their own underwriting criteria and each 
will assess the risks they are being asked to take on against their own criteria. Insurers each 
have their own view on how much risk there is of a customer needing to make a claim and 
how much any claims are likely to cost. They use this information in order to decide what 
price they need to charge to cover the risk. We wont normally say whether a product 
represents good value for money. And we generally accept that insurers can charge what 
they like for insurance so long as they act fairly. But whilst its not for this service to tell a 
business how to price their policies, when a complaint is made about the premium charged, 
we do need to make the insurer is being consistent and not taking advantage of a particular 
customer. 
To make sure West Bay wasnt treating Ms F unfairly we asked it why her annual premium 
had increased so significantly. In response to our enquiries, West Bay has shared some 
information with us. Whilst I understand why Ms F would like to see how her premium has 
been calculated Im afraid I cant share the information West Bay has shared with us about 
that with her. Thats because such information is business sensitive and is shared (as it is by 
any insurer/underwriter about whom a complaint about the pricing of a policy is made) in the 
strictest confidence. But I would like to reassure Ms F that I have checked the information we 
received very carefully. 
West Bay has explained to us that the previous underwriter of Ms Fs policy didnt take her 
personal claims history into account when assessing the risk of insuring her whereas it does. 
It also explained that the three claims Ms F had made in the last five years were the main 
cause of her increased premium. 
Insurers take a variety of factors insurers take into account when calculating risk. These 
include factors directly related to a customer  like claims history  and factors that arent 
directly related to an individual - like the number of claims in the area where a customer lives. Insurers constantly review these factors and they can lead to increases or decreases 
in the premiums they charge. How they gather, analyse and assess this information is up to 
each insurer. And it is West Bays decision to take previous claims into account when 
assessing the risk it is being asked to insure. Thats not unfair. And Im satisfied it does the 
same for all its policyholders, so I dont think Ms F has been singled out or that it suggests 
her premium has been calculated in an unfair way. 
Whilst I know that Ms F feels trapped because of her historic subsidence claim, West Bay 
hasnt said this was a factor in how it calculated her premium. It has said that it cant offer 
her a new business quote because its underwriting criteria for new business declines to 
cover properties with a history of subsidence. But this complaint is about Ms Fs 2021 
renewal premium and the information West Bay has shared with us indicates that the 
premium increased so significantly because it was rated on Ms Fs claims history. Im afraid I 
cant advise Ms F about whether she should seek cover with another provider; thats a 
matter for her. 
I know that Ms F says her policy schedule contained a number or errors and that her quote 
was based on incorrect information. But West Bay has since confirmed that the incorrect 
information didnt affect the premium its charged. It checked all the details again and 
confirmed the premium had been correctly calculated. Without any evidence to the contrary, 
I cant reasonably find that the errors in the text of the schedule had an impact on the 
premium.
Ms F also complained about some poor customer service she received, namely a failure to 
return her calls and the fact she didnt receive requested copies of her insurance schedule. I 
can see that West Bay apologised to her for any distress and inconvenience she was 
caused and that it paid her compensation of £75. I think that West Bay has addressed this 
aspect of Ms Fs complaint fairly and reasonably so Im not minded to make it do any more. I 
think the compensation it has paid her is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in line 
with awards made by this service in similar complaints. Indeed if this complaint had passed 
across my desk without an offer of compensation having already been made, its unlikely 
that Id have awarded any more than this. 
Ms F says that this service is known for siding with big companies that have access to legal 
advice. Im unable to agree. We are an impartial service that doesnt take sides. We look at 
all the evidence we are provided with to reach fair and reasonable decisions on complaints. 
By its very nature, complaint handling will leave one party (and sometimes both parties) to a 
dispute dissatisfied at the outcome. But we can only uphold complaints where it is fair and 
reasonable to do so in all the circumstances. Unfortunately for Ms F, for the reasons Ive 
given, Im unable to fairly and reasonably uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman