DRN-3790714
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund payments he says he didnt make from 
his account.
What happened
Mr K says he didnt make the actual and attempted payments with his card on 2 September 
2021. He wants payments of £4,442.18 that were debited refunded.
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding the two payments involved. Both were made when 
the chip on Mr Ks card was read and the correct PIN was entered first time. There was no 
compromise for his PIN identified. Santander said that subsequent attempted payments had 
been declined and a message it sent to the number it had for Mr K about this wasnt 
responded to. When he had called it later on 2 September 2021 the payments had already 
gone through. And while he said he had lost his card and wallet he then thought that these 
might have been at his address. So those payments werent discussed with him. Mr K said 
hed been unable to log in online and that was because hed locked his account and so his 
details were reset. He contacted it again on 10 September 2021 when he was able to log on 
and hed seen the payments. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr K says his last genuine 
use of the card and PIN was at a restaurant at 23:11 the night before. The first disputed 
payment took place 12 hours later. That was unlikely if his PIN had been seen at the 
restaurant and a fraudster had somehow got hold of his wallet. He thought it most likely that 
the payments were authorised and that as a result didnt need to be blocked.
Mr K is represented in this complaint and wants an ombudsmans review. His representative 
said it wanted to know how a smaller payment for £250 was blocked but the larger payments 
allowed. This was shocking considering the normal activity on the account and Mr K had 
simply not authorised these payments. The facts were that this happened 12 hours after hed 
last used his card. And Mr K was the innocent victim and shouldnt be left empty-handed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Ill be thinking about what is most likely.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr K wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr K authorise the payments on the account?
- Did Santander act reasonably?
Im satisfied from the payment logs that these payments were authenticated when the chip 
on the genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered. The representative has referred 
to the possibility of a card being cloned. Weve not seen evidence of the chip on a card being 
cloned for everyday use and in any event Mr K says he didnt have his card. The issue is 
whether Mr K consented to the payments.
Mr K says that his PIN must have been seen when he input this in a busy restaurant. He told 
Santander he realised he lost his wallet and the notes of calls he had with Santander about 
his fraud claim record that hed lost his driving licence too. Hes said through his 
representative he normally paid with a card from a different issuer, but this wasnt accepted 
at the restaurant. 
I think its most likely that a fraudster in possession of a card and PIN would take as much 
money as quickly as possible. Attempts to use the card only started some 12 hours later. 
And a fraudster risked detection at any time and would until then have no idea whether there 
was any money in the account. 
Here there were significant funds in the account that had largely been received during 1 
September 2021. The payments that went through took place at 11:12 and 11:39 the next 
day. An attempted payment for £5,507.47 at 12:15 was blocked and then so too was the 
attempted cash withdrawal of £250 that followed at 12:17. There is no record of any other 
attempted use of the card.
Mr K was asked in calls with Santander whether he suspected that anyone known to him 
may have taken his card and used it and said he didnt. His position is that these payments 
were made by an unknown third party. Im afraid that given the time before these payments 
started and the lack of evidence to support the PIN on the card being compromised I dont 
think that this is the most likely explanation. And so, I find that Mr K most likely authorised 
the payments.
That being so I dont find Santander at fault for not blocking the earlier payments. I 
appreciate what the representative says about such card payments being out of character. 
But that would only be relevant here if Mr K hadnt authorised them. And these first two 
payments didnt trigger any fraud alerts. Its also clear that the smaller attempted payment 
followed the concern with a larger attempted one. And so, there isnt the inconsistency the 
representative says in Santanders approach.
I consider Santander was entitled to hold Mr K responsible for the payments and that it has 
acted reasonably. I appreciate the amount of money at stake for him and how disappointed 
he will be by the outcome. If he doesnt accept my decision he remains free to pursue this 
matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Michael CreweOmbudsman