DRN-3836120
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited has decided not to refund her after she says 
she was the victim of a scam totalling £500.
What happened
Mrs K says she paid £500 for a TV via an online marketplace.  Mrs K says she spoke to the 
seller over the phone and paid for the TV. After the TV wasnt delivered Mrs K thought she 
had been scammed and contacted Starling.
Starling looked into things and said it was sorry she had been the victim of a scam and the 
distress this would have caused. But it said it wouldnt be refunding Mrs K as she hadnt 
taken reasonable steps to check if the purchase was genuine. This included following the 
warning it presented to her at the time she made the payment.  It said it considered the scam 
in light of the contingent reimbursement model (CRM) but wasnt refunding Mrs K. It added 
that the receiving bank  the bank where her payment was received  was not signed up to 
the code. 
It went on to say that the online marketplace platform she had used provided a number of 
pages with information on how to stay protected against scams and the most secure ways to 
make payments to benefit from its own refund policies. It said Mrs K didnt check the sellers 
reviews or obtain real time evidence of the goods. Mrs K hasnt retained any evidence of the 
purchase and hasnt provided details about how delivery of the TV had been arranged.
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She said she 
didnt think Starling needed to provide a warning as part of its requirements under the CRM. 
And the payment wasnt suspicious, so Starling didnt need to intervene when Mrs K made it. 
She considered if Mrs K ought to be refunded for having a reasonable basis of belief that the 
person she was transacting with was genuine. She decided she didnt for the following 
reasons:
- She had been asked not to use the secure payment methods advised and 
recommended by the online marketplace that offered protection. 
- It was agreed the TV would be posted, despite it being within collection distance.
- Mrs K didnt ask for any confirmation that the seller owned the goods.
- Mrs K cant remember any details about the TV other than the price being very good 
- £200 cheaper than others being advertised.
- Mrs K says she knew the seller through a mutual friend  but this wasnt enough to 
say Mrs Ks actions were reasonable in the circumstances, when it came to checking 
the purchase and seller were genuine.
- And whilst she sympathised with Mrs K wellbeing and health, she didnt think this 
prevented her from taking steps to protect herself from these types of scams in a way 
that meant she was vulnerable under the CRM Code. 
Mrs K didnt agree and asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman. Our investigator 
asked Mrs K if she could provide any further details around her circumstances and why she 
felt she was vulnerable at the time of the scam, but Mrs K hasnt responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator. 
Mrs K hasnt provided any evidence in relation to the purchase. She doesnt have details 
about the TV itself, the advert on the online marketplace app, and she hasnt provided any 
detail about the conversation she had with the seller or the delivery of the TV. From what Ive 
seen I cant safely say that Mrs K has even been scammed. 
But if I were to believe what she has said, regardless of the lack of supporting information, 
then I agree with the findings of the investigator. 
I dont think Starling was required to give an effective warning under the CRM Code, in these 
particular circumstances. I think this because the payment was a low value one. Im 
persuaded that Starling was entitled to consider there were no apparent APP scam risks 
here. So, I dont think it needed to provide a warning.
And Ive found no other reason why Starling ought to have contacted Mrs K about the £500 
payment before she made it, so I dont think Starling needs to refund Mrs Ks losses here.
Ive also thought carefully about what Mrs k has told us happened and the reasons Starling 
says Mrs K didnt have a reasonable basis of belief for proceeding with the payment. And 
again, I agree with the findings made by the investigator:
- Mrs K hasnt been able to explain why she chose not to pay for the TV through the 
secure methods offered by the online marketplace she was using. She hasnt 
provided much detail about the conversation she had with the seller that led her to 
make this decision.
- She hasnt provided any detail about how the TV would be delivered  i.e. what 
delivery service would be used, how much that cost, who covered the cost of that, 
why she chose not to collect the item etc. I think her lack of detail about this reflects 
her lack of reasonable belief about the purchase being legitimate.
- The price appeared too good to be true, as Mrs K has said it was £200 cheaper than 
others being sold. This ought to have caused Mrs K to be concerned and consider 
other checks she could make to ensure the goods and seller were genuine.
- Mrs K said she knew the seller  but she hasnt said that she checked the sellers 
reviews through the app  which would have been reasonable in the circumstances. 
And the link with the seller could also indicate that Mrs K has other avenues to 
pursue this matter outside of the CRM code or via her bank. 
For these reasons Im not persuaded that Mrs K had a reasonable basis for believing she 
was paying for genuine goods or dealing with genuine seller.
Ive also considered Mrs Ks comments about her wellbeing and mental state at the time and 
can see that the investigator has asked Mrs K to provide some additional information about 
this  to which Mrs K hasnt responded. And although I appreciate these events have had an 
impact on Mrs K Im not persuaded, at the time of making the payment she was vulnerable 
to the extent that it wouldnt have been\ reasonable to expect her to have protected herself  for example by asking additional questions and choosing the method of payment. I havent 
seen anything to suggest Mrs K was for example lacking in knowledge, skill and capability to 
engage in financial services. I dont doubt Mrs K has been impacted by these events but not 
to the extent that Im persuaded she meets the definition of vulnerable under the CM Code. 
So Starling doesnt need to refund Mrs K for her losses for these reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint against Starling Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman