DRN-1372801
Complaint
Mr E complains, on behalf of his mother Mrs E, that Virgin Money plc (Virgin) removed the 
promotional interest rate because of a late payment to her credit card account.
Background
Mrs E took out a credit card with Virgin and set this up as her son wasnt able to obtain a 
promotional interest free credit card in his own name. Mrs E says that the borrowing on the 
credit card was her sons debt and he was responsible for making the monthly payments. To 
arrange this Mrs E spoke to Virgin to set up a direct debit from her sons account. She was 
told by Virgin that it wasnt possible, as the direct debit needed to come from an account in 
the same name as the credit card holder. As a result Mr E arranged for a standing order 
from his own account to the credit card account in his mothers name to cover the minimum 
monthly payment needed.  
In February 2019 the payment by standing order was received into the credit card account 
after the due payment date and as a result Virgin withdrew the promotional offer on the card, 
charged late payment fees and applied the standard interest rate for the card. Mrs E felt this 
was unfair as the payment by standing order took longer to credit her credit card account 
than she expected and the due date for the minimum payment was different to previous 
months. Mrs E says that subsequently a direct debit was set up from her sons account so 
she was given the wrong information from Virgin. 
Virgin says the minimum payment date can change from month to month and the payment 
date due is stated in the monthly statements sent to Mrs E. It says that her statements 
explain that it will withdraw the promotional offer if a payment isnt received on time. Virgin 
says that direct debits are only permitted from accounts in the same name as the card holder 
and this was explained to Mrs E. Virgin say that a few months later a direct debit was set up 
online by Mrs E with her sons bank account details, but this was without their agreement 
and outside of their policy. 
Mrs E wasnt happy with Virgins response and her son then referred the matter to this 
service.
The investigator looked at the available evidence but didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. The 
investigator felt that Virgin had acted fairly when it removed the promotional interest rate and 
applied charges in line with the terms and conditions of the credit card, after the minimum 
payment wasnt received on time. The investigator said that Virgin had told Mrs E that direct 
debits are only accepted in the name of the card holder and she was responsible for making 
sure that payments were received on time, as detailed in her monthly statements. 
Mr E wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how I 
have come to my decision.
When considering Mr Es complaint, on behalf of his mother, I have looked at whether Virgin 
acted unfairly when it removed the promotional interest rate, applied late payment charges 
and changed the credit card account to the standard interest rate following a late payment to 
the account. I have also considered if Virgin acted incorrectly when refusing to accept a 
direct debit payment from her sons account.
I can understand that it was frustrating for Mrs E to discover that her sons standing order 
payment arrived in her credit card account after the due date for the minimum payment. Mr E 
says that the payment date for February was earlier than in previous months and cant 
understand why the standing order would take so long to be credited. Mr E suggests if his 
mother had been allowed to set up a direct debit from his bank account the payment would 
have been collected in time. Mr E says that a direct debit was subsequently set up from his 
bank account  so Virgin had given them incorrect information.
I have considered these points and I will address these based on the information made 
available to me. 
What is important here is that its the responsibility of the card holder to ensure the minimum 
payment is made on time and as detailed in Mrs Es monthly statement. The terms and 
conditions provided to this service also explain that up to a week should be allowed for 
receipt of funds. This is further clarified under section 9.2 and 9.5 of the terms and conditions 
of Mrs Es Credit card. Under section 10.1 of these terms and conditions it also states that 
late payment charges will be applied in the event of a late payment and this is what 
happened here.  The bank statements also state that in the event of a late payment they will 
withdraw any promotional offer on the credit card account. In this instance the payment 
arrived two days after the due date. 
In this case a standing order was set up from Mr Es bank account - standing orders are 
generally paid from bank accounts on fixed dates and non working days need to be 
accounted for to ensure the payments are received on time  and this is partly the issue 
here. The payment was made immediately preceding a weekend and while that is frustrating 
 for Mr E, I am satisfied that the payment, however made, remains  the responsibility of Mrs 
E to ensure it arrives in time for the due date, as detailed in her bank statements.  
Having considered this I am satisfied that Virgin have acted fairly and in line with the terms 
and conditions applying to Mrs Es credit card account. 
As far as Virgin misleading Mrs E of the option of setting up a direct debit from her sons 
account is concerned, I have looked at this as it is central to whether the late payment could 
have been avoided. From the information provided to me and by Mrs Es own admission  
Virgin told her that a direct debit can only be set up from an account in the same name as 
the credit card holder  in this case Mrs E. Virgin have also told this service that this is their 
policy and its not my role to tell Virgin what payment methods they are prepared to accept to 
their customers credit card accounts. I can see that Mrs E managed subsequently to set up 
a direct debit from her sons account, online, but this was not with the consent of Virgin, 
given she was told that this was not an acceptable method of payment. It follows, I am satisfied that a direct debit from Mrs Es sons account was not a payment 
method available to Mrs E and it remained her responsibility to ensure that her minimum 
monthly payment  reached the credit card account in time for the due date.   
I do think that Virgin, having received Mrs Es complaint, could have handled this more 
efficiently but I dont think that this would have materially changed the outcome here and 
their offer of £25 fairly compensates Mrs E for this. 
I know that Mrs E will be disappointed with my decision but I wont be asking anymore of 
Virgin here. 
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6August2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman