DRN-3085890
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) acted 
irresponsibly when they increased her credit card limit in February 2015. Mrs F says the 
lending was unaffordable for her. 
 
What happened
In March 2007 Mrs F took out a credit card with Barclays. According to Barclays records, 
Mrs Fs credit card limit has been decreased on two occasions and increased on three 
occasions. The last increase was in February 2015 where Barclays increased Mrs Fs credit 
limit from £3,000 to £6,000.
At the time of the limit increase in February 2015 Mrs F says that she was in financial 
difficulties as a result of excessive borrowing and gambling. In addition to this Mrs F says 
that since 2013 shes had to deal with a health issue which has required a number of 
surgeries and strong medication. Mrs F has said that her concentration levels have been 
affected significantly as a result of her medication and treatment. 
In August 2020 Mrs F complained to Barclays about the management of her credit card 
account, and specifically the limit increase applied to her account in February 2015. Mrs F 
said it was irresponsible for Barclays to increase her limit, particularly in light of the amount 
of borrowing she had with different lenders and with her poor health.
On 16 September 2020, Barclays provided their final response to Mrs F complaint. Barclays 
didnt uphold her complaint. They explained that full affordability checks had been completed 
at the time of the limit increase, and so they felt that they had acted responsibly when they 
increased the credit limit.
Unhappy with their response, Mrs F brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into Mrs Fs concerns and upheld her complaint. He didnt think Barclays had acted 
fairly when they increased her credit limit in February 2015. However, he felt that Mrs Fs 
credit file should reflect a defaulted balance of £3,000 to reflect her credit limit prior to the 
increase in February 2015. 
Barclays accepted our investigators view but disagreed with backdating the default, as they 
felt this would be an inaccurate representation of Mrs Fs credit card account. Our 
investigator provided a second view in which he agreed with Barclays amendment and 
advised that in relation to the credit file, the default should remain as it was, but the balance 
should be amended to what it would be without the added interest. 
Mrs F disagreed and felt that her credit file should reflect what her balance was in February 
2015 with no default. Mrs F felt that had she not been lent the money from any lenders her 
defaults would not have been in place. Mrs F also advised that she wished to complain 
about the entire handling of her credit card and all the limit increases that took place.
Our investigators view remained unchanged, so Mrs F has asked that her complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her response to our Investigators view, having reviewed her bank statements and credit 
file from 2013, Mrs F said that she now wished for us to consider her credit card account in 
its entirety including the earlier limit increases.
In this decision, Ive focused on Mrs Fs complaint about the credit limit increase made by 
Barclays in February 2015 and Mrs Fs dispute about how the credit file should be amended, 
following our investigators view.
In May 2021 Barclays explained in their summary to us, that they only considered the 
complaint about the limit increase in February 2015. They said that they didnt consent to us 
looking into the earlier activity on Mrs Fs credit card, because Mrs F hadnt complained 
about it in time and so it would fall outside of our jurisdiction. 
I recognise Mrs F is unhappy with the earlier activity on her credit card account and feels 
that Barclays hadnt acted fairly towards her. However, in the circumstances, I think Barclays 
should be given the opportunity to respond to any other concerns about the handling or 
management of her credit card in the first instance. And if Mrs F remains unhappy following 
Barclays response, she may decide to bring her concerns to us where well look to see if its 
something, we can look into for her.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found within the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) handbook, explained in 2015 that a business must carry out a 
creditworthiness assessment before lending to a consumer. A creditworthiness assessment 
involves a review of a consumers credit history, the consumers ability to afford any new 
repayments, their ability to maintain future repayments and any impact that the lending may 
have on them. It went on to say the assessment must be based on enough information taken 
from:
the customer, where appropriate; and
a credit reference agency, where necessary
Having reviewed the information from both parties Im in agreement with our investigator. II 
dont think Barclays carried out the necessary reasonable and proportionate checks to 
assess Mrs Fs ability to repay the increased limit. The conduct of Mrs Fs credit card 
account in the lead up to the increase should have given Barclays reason to carry out 
further checks. For example, being close to the credit limit and making mostly minimum 
payments. Barclays could have reviewed Mrs Fs bank statements or make contact with her 
to discuss and establish her current circumstances. Its likely that had they done so they 
would have discovered the limit increase was not in Mrs Fs interest.
However, as both parties have agreed on this part of the complaint, and my reasoning reflects that of our investigators, in relation to this element of the complaint, Ive not 
addressed it any further in my decision.
  
Putting things right
Given that Ive found that Barclays didnt lend responsibly when they increased Mrs Fs 
credit limit, I think they need to put things right for her.
In the circumstances of Mrs Fs complaint, Im not persuaded that putting her back in the 
position that she would have been, had she not borrowed the money from Barclays is 
entirely reasonable or fair. I say this because the money was borrowed by Mrs F, and so I 
dont find it entirely unjust that Mrs F is expected to repay it. Having said that, I also dont 
think its fair for Barclays to earn interest or charge fees on the amount lent either. So, Ive 
thought about what the most reasonable approach is to reach a fair resolution.     
Ill be instructing Barclays to refund to Mrs Fs credit card account all interest, charges and 
fees applied on balances over £3,000 from February 2015, which will include any late or 
missed payments or fees charged in relation to the limit being over £3,000. They will also 
need to freeze any future interest, charges or fees that would be applied for the balance 
being in excess of £3,000. I think this fairly reflects that the money was borrowed so should 
be repaid, but without allowing Barclays to benefit financially from their lending in this 
instance.
According to the letter of default sent to Mrs F in August 2017, a repayment plan of around 
£25 per month was in place for Mrs F to repay the balance. Its unclear if this plan is still in 
place or if its been reviewed. So, in the circumstances Ill be instructing Barclays to arrange 
an affordable and sustainable repayment plan with Mrs F to enable her to repay the credit 
card balance. 
I acknowledge there remains a dispute over what action Barclays should take in relation to 
Mrs Fs credit file. Barclays believe it should remain unchanged to reflect what has actually 
happened; however, Mrs F disagrees and believes Barclays should backdate the default to 
February 2015, as initially recommended by our investigator, given her circumstances and 
financial history.
Ive considered what has been said by both parties however, given the circumstances I think 
the fairest outcome is to keep the default is it is. I think Mrs Fs credit file should accurately 
reflect what has taken place. That Mrs F borrowed from Barclays, and that a default 
occurred when it did. So, I wont be instructing Barclays to take any action in relation to the 
default on Mrs Fs credit file.
I think this is fair in the circumstances because Mrs Fs credit file should accurately reflect 
the circumstances of her credit card account.  I acknowledge that Mrs F has raised concerns 
over Barclays earlier actions in connection to this current complaint. however as mentioned 
above, Mrs F should allow Barclays a fair opportunity to respond to her about those earlier 
events in the first instance. 
I recognise this has been a difficult time for Mrs F. Mrs F has said shes managed to address 
her financial difficulties with other lenders. And has managed to get her gambling under 
control, with her credit score improving and debt levels reducing. I trust Mrs F is aware of the 
free advice that remains available to her through various organisations like Step Change or 
National Debtline.
My final decisionHaving thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I uphold this complaint and instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard to:
Refund all interest on balances charged over £3,000
Refund any late/missed payment or over limit fees applied after the limit increase in 
February 2015
Ensure an affordable and sustainable repayment plan is arranged with Mrs F for the 
outstanding balance.
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all 
refunds calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman