DRN-2687631
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as M complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) unfairly
declined a claim under Ms business protection insurance policy.
Mrs W who is a director of M brings the complaint on Ms behalf.
What happened
M holds a business protection insurance policy with Allianz. Mrs W made a claim on that
policy to cover Ms losses arising out of the closure of M due to the national government-
imposed lockdown in response to the Covid 19 pandemic.
Allianz declined the claim because it said M didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming
for. Mrs W didnt agree and thought the policy should cover M for its losses. She said she
thought the policy wording for specified illnesses meant that Ms claim should be covered,
that Covid 19 wasnt excluded under the terms of the policy and that M had a recorded case
of Covid 19 on the premises.
Our investigator considered Ms complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that,
while he sympathised with Mrs Ws situation, he didnt think there was cover available under
the policy for the situation M found itself in. Mrs W doesnt agree so the matter has been
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the government-imposed lockdown had on M.
But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding Ms complaint. Ill
explain why.
M is looking to claim on its business interruption insurance policy. There are a range of
business interruption insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks;
from basic perils like fire and flood to providing cover for additional perils  either as part of
the policy or as an optional add on. When considering whether Allianz acted fairly in
declining Ms claim, the starting point is to consider the specific policy M took out. As such
Ive considered the policy M holds with Allianz to determine whether there are any sections
that would require Allianz to meet the claim.
Mrs W has told us that M closed its doors in March 2020 due to the government-imposed
lockdown, which meant it wasnt allowed to remain open. The government-imposed
lockdown was intended to control the Covid 19 pandemic. So, the most likely section of the
policy that could provide cover would be the extension in relation to specified illnesses. That 
section covers disruption to business activities as a direct result of any occurrence of a
Specified Illness at the Premises, or any occurrence of a Specified Illness within a radius of
25 miles of the Premises.
Specified Illness is defined as:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:

b Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria,
Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps,
Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever,
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow
Fever an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to
them.
Having considered the list of illnesses in the policy, Im not persuaded this section provides
M with cover in the circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified illnesses. I realise
that Covid 19 wasnt something Allianz would have known about when the policy was
drafted, but I dont think that changes my findings. Ill explain why.
There are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for the present
pandemic. These are usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and
updated on a Government defined list. Whereas Ms policy sets out a specific list of the
illnesses which are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is
nothing which implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses
which might emerge. And there are several illnesses that the policy doesnt cover, including
SARS (which is another type of Coronavirus). So I think the purpose of the policy is to
provide cover in the event of the specific illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or
should fairly be interpreted as covering any illnesses that arent specified in the list set out
above.
I note that Mrs W believes Covid 19 should be covered under this policy due to the wording
an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them
and I have considered her comments. However I think the wording of the policy is clear and
that it only intended to cover the specified list of illnesses, rather than all notifiable diseases.
And I dont think anything in this wording implies that Allianz intended to cover all notifiable
diseases for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Ive also considered whether Covid 19 might fall under Plague which is one of the illnesses
specified in the list of illnesses covered, but I dont think it does. The policy doesnt define
Plague, but it does have a specific medical classification and is an infectious disease in its
own right. Plague appears as a specified disease in the Governments list of notifiable
diseases and is caused by a specific bacterium. In contrast Covid 19 is a viral infection. So,
having considered the position carefully I am satisfied that the capitalised term Plague used
in the policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical illness Plague.
Finally, whilst I appreciate its possible that Plague could be interpreted on its widest
dictionary definition as an infectious disease, affliction or pestilence, I think that doing so
would render the list Allianz has set out, redundant. Thats because it would cover most of
the specified illnesses set out within it, so it would be pointless to list them as Allianz has.
So overall, I think the fact that Plague is listed separately in the policy and is different in
nature to Covid-19 is enough for me to determine that Covid 19 does not fall within the term
Plague in the policy and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
to treat the policy as if it did.
Mrs W says that Covid 19 isnt excluded under the terms of the policy and I have considered
this. However I think the policy has a defined list of illnesses that it provides cover for under
this section  so any illnesses that arent on the list wouldnt be covered under that section ofthe policy. And before I can consider whether Allianz has applied an exclusion correctly, I
must first consider whether there is cover in place for the event claimed for. So Mrs Ws
comments dont change my thoughts on whether M is covered under the specified illness
section of the policy. And while I realise that M had a proven case of Covid 19 on the
premises, this also doesnt change the position as Covid 19 isnt covered under this part of
the policy.
Ive also considered the remaining terms of the policy and didnt find anything that would
provide cover for this situation. So overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think
Allianz acted unfairly by turning down Ms claim for cover. I know this decision will be
disappointing for Mrs W but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why Ms
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W on behalf of 
M to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman