DRN-4198027
The complaint
C is complaining that Riverdale Business Solutions Limited (Riverdale) didnt present all the 
relevant information to the insurer of a commercial property insurance policy it arranged on 
Cs behalf.
C has been represented by a legal representative throughout this complaint. But for ease of 
reference, I refer to anything Cs representative has said to be said by C.
What happened
In 2017 C  a limited company  bought a commercial warehouse. It approached Riverdale 
to arrange a commercial property insurance policy to insure the warehouse. Riverdale spoke 
with Cs director to gather all relevant information and arranged an insurance policy. The 
policy renewed the next year. In 2020, I understand C arranged a policy through a different 
broker. But, in 2021, C took out another policy through Riverdale again, but this policy was 
provided by a different insurer to the previous policy. 
In June 2021, the warehouse was damaged through a fire so C claimed for the damage 
through the insurance policy Riverdale arranged. However, the insurer avoided the 
insurance policy and declined the claim because it said C didnt disclose the roof was 
constructed with the use of asbestos. Cs director  Mr S  holds Riverdale responsible for 
this for the following reasons:
He maintains that he told Riverdale, when it first sold the policy, that the roof was built 
with the use of asbestos. He also says there was a further telephone conversation with 
Riverdale in 2018 where he set out construction work that C was doing to the 
warehouse. He highlighted that C had obtained an asbestos survey in January 2018 and 
he said this was discussed as part of the works discussions.
He says the insurers had different definitions of non-standard construction of the roof. 
He said the first insurer considered asbestos to be standard construction, but the latest 
insurer said it wasnt. He thinks Riverdale should have highlighted this when it arranged 
the new policy
He acknowledge the new policy document made reference to the property construction 
not contained asbestos, but he thinks it was buried within the document. 
He also said that C was underinsured on the insurance policy. He thinks Riverdale 
should have made it clearer what he needed to take out as a sum insured.
Riverdale didnt agree it was at fault as it said Mr S had never said the policy was 
constructed with asbestos.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she said Riverdale had shown the sale 
process it goes through and she was satisfied that it would have asked whether the roof was 
built with non-standard materials. She also thought it was for C to check the policy 
documents whether the information Riverdale had presented to the insurer on its behalf. And 
she was satisfied that the documentation was sufficiently clear that C needed to tell the 
insurer that the roof was built with asbestos.
C didnt agree with the investigator for the following reasons:
Mr S maintains that he told Riverdale that the roof consisted of asbestos sheets.
The statement of fact in 2017 says the Premises are built of brick, stone or concrete 
with slate, tiles, concrete, metal or asbestos roof. So C maintains this shows the 
asbestos was disclosed.
When discussing the claim with the insurer, Riverdales managing director has said he 
considered the use of asbestos in these types of buildings to be standard construction. 
So C didnt agree with the investigator that Riverdale would have recorded the asbestos 
as non-standard construction based on the fact that the managing director didnt 
consider asbestos to be non-standard.
As C didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Cs complaint in a lot less detail 
than its presented it. C has raised a number of reasons about why its unhappy with the way 
Riverdale has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every point its raised 
but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to think about. I 
dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this 
service. I assure C, however, that I have read and considered everything its provided.
The relevant law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015, This required C to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to the insurer so that it had enough information to assess the level of 
risk it was willing to provide and on what terms. The insurer doesnt believe C did so, so it 
avoided the insurance policy.
As Cs broker, Riverdale was required to make this presentation on Cs behalf. So it needed 
to carry out a sufficient fact find to ensure it had all the relevant information to give a fair 
presentation of the risk.
The relevant issue here is that the insurer wasnt told that the warehouse it was insuring was 
constructed with asbestos.
Im conscious that Riverdale first arranged the insurance policy in 2017, but each insurance 
policy is a new contract with a new responsibility to carry out a fair presentation of the risk. 
Further to this, and most importantly, there was a break in cover for one year as C used a 
different broker to insure the policy. In 2020, C returned to Riverdale and a new insurance 
policy was arranged. So, while I have considered what happened in 2017, Ive particularly 
focussed on the policy sale on 2020 and subsequent renewal in 2021.
Riverdale has provided a fact find that was carried out on 10 June 2020 which says the risk 
details were taken over the telephone. So it seems Riverdale spoke with Mr S when C took 
out the policy again. In the fact find it asks details of the roof construction and asks to include 
details of any lining. And this says pitched and tiled. I understand that there isnt a 
recording of the telephone call available, so I have to go on the basis of whats most likely to 
have been discussed.
I think its most likely that Riverdale would have gone through the relevant questions on the fact find with Mr S to gather the relevant information. So I think it would have asked him what 
the warehouses roof construction was. I note Mr S is adamant that he told Riverdale that the 
roof was constructed with asbestos, but I havent seen anything to support this. I have 
thought about and taken into account what hes said, but I dont have enough for me to 
conclude that he did give Riverdale a true reflection of the roofs construction.
I note Cs comment that Riverdales managing director wrote to the insurer querying why it 
didnt think the use of asbestos was standard construction as he said he considered it to be 
standard with that type of property. But Im not persuaded that this means that Riverdale 
didnt pass on that Mr S had said the roof was constructed with asbestos. It seems that this 
was said in a way to assist C with its dispute with the insurer. I dont think it can reasonably 
follow from this that it wouldnt have included in the fact find document that the roof was 
constructed with asbestos sheeting if this had been disclosed.
In addition to this, I cannot ignore the paperwork that was sent to C in 2020 and 2021. 
Regarding the policy that was avoided  which is the representation in question  C was 
asked to confirm whether:
The property is of non-standard construction [walls not built only of brick, stone or concrete 
or roofed only with slates, tiles or concrete].
C was asked to check this documentation, but it hasnt corrected any incorrect information. I 
have also considered Cs comment that it thinks Riverdale should have clearly set out the 
difference between the two insurers definition of standard construction. But, even if I thought 
it needed to do this, which I dont, it needs to be remembered that this was a new business 
application  i.e. it wasnt a renewal  as C had taken out an insurance policy through a 
different business before this. So its not a situation where there was a change in insurer and 
cover at renewal. Riverdales role was to carry out a full fact find so it could carry out a fair 
presentation of the risk on Cs behalf and to arrange a suitable policy. 
I recognise that C has lost out significantly as a result of the policys avoidance, but I cant 
reasonably say that Riverdale is responsible for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman