DRN-4307184
The complaint
Mr D has complained that M&S Financial Services Plc (M&S) trading as M&S Bank,  
irresponsibly lent to him when it granted him a credit card. 
What happened
Mr D opened a credit card account with M&S in October 2018. His credit limit
was initially £2,000. In January 2021 it was increased to £2,500.
I understand the account went into default in June 2023. 
Mr D says that M&S shouldnt have granted him the card or gone on to increase his credit 
limit.  
M&S says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr D and that it did all the necessary checks before 
agreeing to lend. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He thought that given 
Mr Ds income and expenditure and level of available credit it was likely that he didnt have 
the disposable income available to sustainably afford the card.
Because M&S disagrees the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ds complaint.
M&S needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could 
afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr Ds income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender like M&S to be able to show that it didnt make the decision to lend or continue to 
lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Before granting the account, M&S looked into Mr Ds financial circumstances. It did this by 
relying on the information Mr D put in his application as well as carrying out credit checks. 
Mr S said he was earning an annual income of £16,000 which works out at around £1,300 
net per month. M&S says it carried out its own affordability assessment, based on which it 
found that the credit was affordable. It also checked Mr Ds credit history and found that he 
owed around £7,500 in existing credit which was about 50% of his available credit. Based on 
its affordability assessment, M&S said that after paying towards essential spending and 
housing costs plus his existing credit commitments, hed be left with £171 to pay his card. 
Ive also seen that Mr D requested to make balance transfers at the time of the account 
opening that totalled around £1,950, leaving him with very little credit left on the card. I 
understand that these balance transfers were taking advantage of a 0% interest offer. I can 
see that this would go some way to reducing his total credit debt, but it still left open the 
possibility that he would go on to increase his total credit commitments, using up the 
additional £15,000 of available credit. Based on a 5% monthly repayment and also including 
the £2,000 of new credit granted would mean a total repayment of £850 per month. This far 
exceeds the total repayment of £380 M&S allowed for Mr Ds existing credit plus the addition 
£100 per month for the new credit. So there was real risk that Mr D would get to the point 
where hed be unable to make sustainable monthly repayments. I therefore think M&S ought 
to have carried out a better search in order to gain a more thorough understanding of Mr Ds 
financial circumstances before it granted him the credit. 
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint from the opening of the account because he didnt 
think the new credit could be sustainably maintained alongside what Mr D already owed on 
credit elsewhere plus his regular committed living expenditure each month. As part of his 
review, our investigator relied on the bank statements that Mr D provided. Ive looked at 
these statements and agree that given the average level of spending against his monthly 
income, Mr Ds outgoings were exceeding his income to the extent that his overall financial 
situation was likely to be deteriorating, with the real possibility that Mr D would go on to 
borrow more using the existing credit he had available. So I agree that Mr D would very likely 
be left with minimal, if any, disposable income each month were he to make use of all the 
credit already available to him at that time. 
It follows that I agree that, taking into account his existing credit and significant level of 
financial commitments, it would have been proportionate for M&S to have gained a more 
thorough and accurate understanding of Mr Ds financial circumstances before granting him 
the credit. It follows that I dont think M&S should have granted Mr D this credit. 
Ive seen that M&S has queried the appropriate way to apply redress in this complaint. I think 
our standard redress for this type of complaint  as set out below  can be properly applied 
without difficulty. Once the balance has been cleared, M&S can then remove any adverse 
information from the credit file relating to the account. In the meantime, it remains open to 
Mr D to put forward any further settlement offers with a view to clearing, or expediting the 
clearance of his outstanding balance.
I am therefore setting out redress below thats in line with what our investigator set out in his 
uphold view letter. 
Putting things right  what M&S needs to do
As I dont think M&S ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be able 
to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr D should pay 
back the amounts  has borrowed. Therefore, M&S should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied. If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr D along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. M&S should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
account from Mr Ds credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, M&S should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr D for the remaining amount. Once Mr D has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from his credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires M&S to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman