DRN-3202332
The complaint
Miss T complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt given her a refund of the premium 
she paid for her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss T bought a single trip travel insurance policy on 30 September 2020 to cover a trip 
between 17 December 2020 and 3 January 2021. The insurer was Great Lakes. Miss T paid 
£36.88 for the policy, and it included two additional cover options  Excess Waiver and 
Enhanced Trip Disruption.
Miss T got in touch with Great Lakes on 4 December 2020 due to the Foreign, 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advising against all but essential travel to her intended 
destination. Great Lakes explained that her policy didnt provide cover for any events that 
related to government restrictions prohibiting travel.
Miss T then wanted Great Lakes to refund her the premium she paid for the policy, as it 
wasnt providing the service she paid for. She said she wasnt covered for cancelling her trip, 
but she also wasnt covered if she travelled against the FCDO advice.
Great Lakes said that no refund was due as Miss T was outside the 14 day cooling off period 
to cancel her policy. It also said that Miss T had been covered for cancellation since she 
bought the policy, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 30 September 2020 
and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
But overall, she didnt think Great Lakes had treated Miss T unfairly.
Miss T didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
Cancellation right: You have a right to cancel up to 14 days from the date You receive:
The policy document at the start of Your insurance;
The renewal policy documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should You decide to exercise this cancellation right, You will be entitled to a refund of 
premium provided that You have not started a Trip to which the insurance applies and You 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of Your 14 day cancellation period You continue to have the right to 
cancel Your Policy at any time during its term by contacting Us, but no refund of premium 
will be available.
Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint because:
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that theres no refund for 
cancellations after the 14 day cooling off period.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. But Ive also taken into account when the policy was bought, together with the 
industry rules and guidance and the policy terms and conditions. 
Miss T bought the policy on 30 September 2020, and since then she was covered for 
a number of listed events insured under the policy. I dont think shes been treated 
unfairly. 
Overall, I dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly or unreasonably in not offering 
Miss T a refund of her premiums in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman