DRN-2774876
The complaint
Ms B complains Nationwide Building Society failed to send her a letter to say the term of her 
mortgage was ending. 
What happened
Ms Bs unhappy Nationwide didnt send her a letter about the end of mortgage term in May 
2019.  Ms B was also unhappy about some other issues related to her Nationwide mortgage 
and she asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to investigate those issues too. 
Unfortunately, those issues were referred to this service too late  so, as I explained in an 
earlier decision, I wont be considering them. 
Nationwide responded to Ms Bs concern about the letter. They accepted they hadnt sent a 
letter in May 2019 that they shouldve. So they apologised and offered Ms B £50 to say 
sorry. 
Ms B wasnt happy with Nationwides response so referred her complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator thought what Nationwides offer of £50was fair in the circumstances. But Ms 
B didnt agree.
  
As Ms B didnt agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide accept that they made a mistake when they didnt send Ms B a letter in May 
2019 about the expiry of her mortgage term. So its for me to decide if Nationwide needs to 
do any more to put things right. 
Nationwide has apologised for the error and offered Ms B £50. Ms B hasnt told us what 
more she thinks Nationwide should do, just that shes unhappy. 
I can see Nationwide sent Ms B a mortgage statement in January 2019 which set out the 
remaining term of the mortgage and also the outstanding balance. Nationwide also sent a 
letter containing this information to Ms B on 18 January 2019  separate to the mortgage 
statement.
 
Ms B then received a telephone call from Nationwide in June 2019 to ask about repayment 
of the outstanding balance now that the mortgage term had expired. Ms B said she hadnt 
received any correspondence regarding the term expiry. 
Although Nationwide shouldve sent Ms B a letter in May 2019, setting out any outstanding 
balance owed when her mortgage term ended, she was given this information twice in 
January 2019. I can understand why Ms B mightve been concerned to receive the call in 
June 2019 asking about repayment of the outstanding balance. But I think overall she knew 
roughly when her mortgage was due to expire and that there would be money still to pay 
based on the previous contact shed had with Nationwide about this. 
So for these reasons, I find Nationwides earlier apology and offer of £50 fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
My final decision
Nationwide has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Ms B £50, if they havent 
done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman