DRN-4278994
The complaint
The estate of Mr W complains about poor customer service from Dignity Funerals Limited.
What happened
To summarise, in 2019, Mr W bought a funeral plan from a company Ill call P, paying a little 
under £4000 up front. When Mr W bought his plan, the sale and administration of pre-paid 
funeral plans wasnt subject to compulsory regulation. But this changed in July 2022, when it 
became a requirement for firms in the pre-paid funeral plan industry to be regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. P originally applied to become regulated, but later withdrew its 
application and went into administration. Customers were contacted with details of a transfer 
arrangement that Dignity was offering, or the option of a partial refund. Mr W transferred his 
plan to Dignity.    
Sadly, in December 2022, Mr W died. His family sought to use his plan to provide his 
funeral. But a number of issues arose to do with the conduct of Dignitys nominated funeral 
director and communication with Dignitys staff. Ultimately, the family chose to use an 
independent funeral director, having lost faith in Dignity.  
The estate complained to Dignity, asking for an apology and for Dignity to pay for the coffin, 
hearse, third-party fees and a £250 release fee the original funeral director required to allow 
collection of Mr W by the independent funeral director.
Dignity partly upheld the complaint. It did not uphold complaint points relating to the funeral 
director, although it acknowledged more could have been done in terms of information and 
explanation. It did uphold the estates complaint about Dignitys customer service. And it also 
said it was sorry Mr Ws family was unhappy with the service provided by the funeral director 
and Dignitys central operations department. It concluded by explaining that as Mr Ws 
funeral had been carried out by an independent funeral director, the plan would need to be 
cancelled. But it would be unable to issue any refund at present as it had not received any 
funds from company P and was unable to confirm the amount of the refund. The plan would 
be noted as cancellation pending and Dignity said it would write to the estate to confirm 
when the cancellation could be completed. Dignity also stated, although I am unable to 
issue payment to your chosen funeral director, as a gesture of goodwill, and to resolve this 
matter, I am awarding £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to [the] family.  
The estate was unhappy about this decision and came to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked into things but didnt think Dignity needed to do anything 
more. He acknowledged the service received from Dignity had caused distress and 
inconvenience. But he explained that our rules only allow us to award compensation for 
distress and inconvenience to eligible complainants themselves, not their representatives. 
The complaint was brought on behalf of the eligible complainant  Mr W  by the 
representatives of the estate - members of Mr Ws family. But as the events complained of 
all took place after Mr Ws death, they had not impacted on Mr W himself. So we had no 
power to remedy any impact on Mr Ws relatives, either personally or in their role as 
representatives of his estate.  
 
However, in view of the cancellation status of the plan, our investigator did look at the 
cancellation terms to see if Dignity was responsible for issuing any refund. Relying on 
Dignitys terms, the investigator was satisfied that Dignity was responsible for providing any 
refund in line with the original plan terms, once it had received funds from the previous 
provider, P, and a copy of Mr Ws death certificate.    
The estate disagreed, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. Since our 
investigator issued his opinion, the estate has expressed further dissatisfaction about the 
terms of the transfer. Its position is that Dignity is responsible for refunding the money due to 
Mr W under the terms of the original plan bought from company P. Its also unhappy that the 
family wasnt signposted to the National Association of Funeral Directors. Our investigator 
asked Dignity for additional information about the transfer arrangements and signposting 
issue. Nothing further has been received. The deadline has now passed and Ive taken this 
as evidence that Dignity doesnt wish to provide anything more. Im satisfied its now 
appropriate for me to issue my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be unwelcome news for Mr 
Ws family and Im sorry about that. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on the points and 
evidence I consider material to my decision. So, if I dont refer to a particular point or piece of 
evidence, its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it changes the 
outcome of the complaint. 
Firstly, the representatives of the estate argue that the representatives/beneficiaries are 
eligible complainants in their own right. I appreciate the submissions the estate has made 
and note the legislation referred to. Ill clarify our rules. The rules governing the Financial 
Ombudsman Service are the Dispute Resolution: Complaints rules  known as DISP and are 
set out in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. DISP 2.7.1 R and 2.7.2 R state:
A complaint may only be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman Service if it is 
brought by or on behalf or an eligible complainant.
A complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complaint (or a deceased 
person who would have been an eligible complainant) by a person authorised by the 
eligible complainant or authorised by law. 
So the eligible complainant in this case is, and only is, Mr W himself. In accordance with the 
terms of his will and corresponding entitlement to apply for grant of probate, under our rules 
his executor is authorised by law to bring the complaint on his behalf. This position was 
upheld by the Financial Conduct Authority when it drafted amendments to our rules to allow 
for the consideration of complaints about regulated pre-paid funeral plan providers. Being 
authorised by law does not make the representative the complainant under our rules. And 
we can only make distress and inconvenience awards for mistakes, such as poor service, 
experienced by the complainant themselves. As the events complained of all happened after 
Mr W died, I cannot consider the impact of Dignitys actions on Mr Ws family  as relatives, 
beneficiaries of his will or his executor. I appreciate this is a very unsatisfactory position for 
Mr Ws relatives and Im sorry about that. But it is not something I can change. So in practical terms, this limits the scope of what I can deal with. The estate has 
complained about poor customer service from Dignity and its nominated funeral director, 
including failure to consult regarding the date of the funeral, communication issues with 
Dignitys central operations department and failure to inform the estate of its ability to contact 
the National Association of Funeral Directors about its complaints. These are all issues for 
which the only possible remedy could be a distress and inconvenience payment. I dont 
doubt that Mr Ws family has found the contact with Dignity frustrating and upsetting. But as I 
cannot consider impact on representatives, this is not something I can pursue further. 
Neither can I comment on the £250 compensation Dignity has offered Mr Ws family, which I 
understand remains available, should they wish to accept it. 
As part of the remedy sought, the estate also wanted payments to be made to cover various 
costs  outlined previously - incurred after Mr Ws relatives chose to use an independent 
funeral director. The estate stressed that these were all services covered under the plan. 
Dignity said that, as the estate had used a non-Dignity funeral director, the only option was 
to cancel the plan and make a refund in line with the plan terms. I appreciate the estate 
viewed its proposal as a reasonable resolution and I can understand why that was so. But 
Im satisfied that there was no requirement for Dignity to make any such payments and that 
cancellation and refund would be the appropriate response. 
So as our investigator explained, we can look at whether Dignity is responsible for providing 
a refund of the plan, and its reasons for not yet doing so. Both the original plan terms and 
the terms of Mr Ws transfer to Dignity are relevant. If a next-of-kin wishes to cancel a plan, 
the original terms from P allow for a refund of payments made, less a cancellation fee. But 
the terms of the transfer of Mr Ws plan to Dignity are significant here. I understand Dignity 
has yet to receive a notice of cancellation from the estate. But in any event, to explain why it 
wouldnt yet be in a position to issue a refund, its relied on the Dignity term below:
Upon receiving your notice of cancellation, we will refund all the money paid within 
30 calendar days of us receiving your notification. For the avoidance of doubt, where 
your plan was previously held by another provider, the refunded sum shall be capped 
at the amount of money received by us in relation to the plan from your previous 
provider and any subsequent payments made directly from you to us.
The transfer of his plan offered Mr W continuity of funeral provision at the time of need, after 
his original provider left the funeral plans market with the advent of regulation. That 
continuity of provision was not dependent on funds being received from P. Once Mr W opted 
into the transfer, his funeral was guaranteed. And its not disputed that Mr W actively chose 
to transfer his plan to Dignity. Mr Ws plan was paid up with P. But the terms of that transfer 
allow Dignity to refund not payments made by the customer, but payments received from the 
previous provider. The terms reflected the commercial agreement made between P and 
Dignity to offer continuity of funeral provision to Ps customers. Having seen the terms, I 
think Dignity is entitled to rely on them to say it would not be in a position to make any refund 
until funds are received from P.
The estate has said Mr Ws contract was with Dignity and has asked for evidence that Mr W 
signed up to those transfer terms. This hasnt been provided by Dignity, so I dont know what 
Mr W wouldve seen and when. But having reflected carefully, I dont think it makes a 
difference to my decision. I say this because, with P leaving the market, the only other 
options available to Mr W were to be without any pre-paid funeral provision and to wait to 
see what refund might be obtainable via Ps administrators, or to purchase a replacement 
plan from a regulated provider at full market cost. So even if Mr W had known that 
subsequent cancellation with Dignity would mean waiting for a refund until funds had been 
received from P, I think hed have gone ahead with the transfer anyway, because he actively chose to maintain his funeral provision, so his chosen arrangements would still be covered 
when the time came. 
So overall, I think Dignity has acted fairly in setting out the cancellation position to the estate 
and explaining that any refund would be limited to payments received from P. So Im not 
going to ask Dignity to do anything more in respect of this complaint. 
Once again, Im sorry to send disappointing news to Mr Ws family.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman