DRN-3739037
The complaint
Mr Ys complaint against St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) is about their 
advice in 2016 that he should invest in several Enterprise Investment Schemes (EIS).
What happened
In March 2016, following the sale of his business and advice from SJP, Mr Y invested 
£136,125 across several different EIS. Later in 2016, Mr Y received a second payment in 
relation to the sale of his business and in December 2016 SJP advised him to invest a 
further £45,942 into EIS funds.
By June 2021, the value of Mr Ys EIS investments had greatly reduced, and he complained 
to SJP. Mr Y complained, in summary, that:
SJP placed too much emphasis on the capital gains tax (CGT) benefits of the EIS 
investments and these didnt outweigh the potential losses he could suffer. He would 
have been better off paying CGT, investing his remaining capital elsewhere and 
achieving growth. The failure of his investments shows that the advice was unsuitable.
He was advised to invest too high a proportion of his funds into EIS, much more than the 
10% stated in the FCA handbook. In addition, 84% of his EIS funds were invested in two 
film related schemes. SJP should have recommended greater diversification across 
other sectors and more companies to spread the risk. 
He was looking for short term, low risk investments but after five years was unable to exit 
from the EIS. The suitability letter said the EIS investments were for a maximum period 
of three to four years, and he was assured they would allow him to exit when he needed 
to.
 
He had retired as a financial adviser and had no substantive knowledge of EIS, having 
never invested in them before. 
The adviser (Mr B) told him that SJP guarantee the suitability of the advice given by their 
advisers and where they get it wrong, they put things right. He only invested because 
Mr B said that if the EIS failed SJP would put him back in the position he was in before 
investing.
On both occasions Mr B conducted a fact find and then immediately recommended 
specific EIS investments that he had come prepared with. The suitability letters were not 
an accurate record of the conversations Mr Y and Mr B had and Mr Y didnt receive them 
until after the investments had been made. Mr Y feels he was pressured to invest. 
SJP didnt carry out sufficient due diligence on the EIS funds he invested in. That is 
supported by the fact that all of them have made a loss while other EIS schemes have 
made a profit. In addition, HMRC have subsequently sought to withdraw tax reliefs on 
one of his investments. 
SJP should have been monitoring the performance of his investments and updating him 
every six months as a minimum. He doesnt recall meeting Mr B after making the last of 
the investments in December 2016. 
Mr Y wanted SJP to reimburse him for all the money he invested in the EIS, including any 
charges and tax losses. He also wanted them to reimburse him for legal fees of 
£10,000+vat that he said he would not have incurred had it not been for SJPs failings.
In response SJP said, in summary:
The EIS investments were suitable for Mr Y. They met his objectives of deferring CGT 
liability following the sale of his business and claiming income tax relief. He involved his 
accountant to confirm the amounts reclaimable.  
Mr Y was made fully aware of the risks associated with EIS investments and agreed to 
them. He signed multiple documents to confirm he understood the investments and the 
risks involved. 
Mr Y wanted to focus on limited life EIS with structured exit strategies. Although other 
products were available and discussed with Mr Y, there was only a limited number of EIS 
that met that objective. When Mr Y made additional investments in December 2016, the 
suitability letter made clear that they further concentrated the risk of his investments, but 
he was happy to proceed. 
The recommended investments were aimed at allowing clients to exit at the earliest 
opportunity following the three year EIS qualifying period, but there was no guarantee of 
that timeframe. There is nothing to suggest Mr Y was told the timeframe was 
guaranteed.
As a former financial adviser Mr Y was aware of how EIS worked and of the risks 
involved. All the relevant documents were provided to him at the time he made the 
investments. It is reasonable to think that if he had any concerns, he would have brought 
them to SJPs attention and not gone ahead with the investments. Mr Y also had a 
cooling off period after making the investments when he could have withdrawn if he had 
wanted to. 
As explained in the declaration Mr Y signed when he made the investments, SJP have 
no influence over the decisions taken by EIS providers and cannot therefore be held 
responsible for the performance of the EIS.
The SJP guarantee that Mr Y has referred to provides assurance that where they have 
given unsuitable advice, they will put clients back in the position they should have been 
in. It doesnt compensate clients for the poor performance of investment products. 
Our investigator didnt think SJP had done anything wrong. Mr Y disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
My provisional decision
I gave my provisional decision in September 2022.
Both parties had provided detailed information in support of their case. I looked carefully at 
all the evidence but concentrated my findings on what I considered to be the key factors in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.   I made clear at the outset that I was not looking at the management of the EIS funds 
themselves as that was not the responsibility of SJP. Neither was I looking at the advice SJP 
gave to Mr Y with the benefit of hindsight; the fact that Mr Ys investments had performed 
badly did not necessarily mean SJP had done something wrong. The key question I needed 
to consider was whether the advice that SJP gave to Mr Y was suitable at the time it was 
given. 
The rules say that a business needs to get enough information from a customer to make 
sure a recommendation meets their objectives. So, before making their recommendations, 
SJP should have taken account of Mr Ys financial situation, his purpose in investing and 
attitude to risk, and how long he wanted to invest for. 
Mr Y decided to retire in 2015 and sold his business for an initial payment of about 
£770,000. Later in 2015 and early 2016 there were some emails between Mr Y and Mr B 
discussing possible investments for Mr Y, including EIS. According to an email in February 
2016, Mr Y estimated that he had a CGT liability of about £65,000, following the sale of his 
business, that he was looking to mitigate.   
From SJPs records it appeared thar Mr B met Mr Y on 19 February 2016 for a general 
review; that was the first meeting with Mr B as Mr Ys adviser. There was no detailed record 
of that meeting, but Mr Bs summary described it as:
an in depth discussion relating to all areas of his finances, focusing on pensions and 
EIS due to the large CGT liability he has
Mr Y and Mr B met again on 4 March 2016 and at that meeting Mr B recommended that 
Mr Y invest in several EIS. They completed the necessary application forms which Mr B 
submitted on Mr Ys behalf.
The main written record of that meeting was the suitability letter from Mr B, which was sent 
on 8 March  four days after the meeting had taken place and the EIS applications had been 
submitted. I noted that Mr Y did not think the letter was an accurate record of the meeting, 
but I thought it was reasonable to take account of it in making my findings. I also took 
account of the brief notes that it appeared Mr B made at the time for SJPs records. 
In March 2016 Mr Y was in his early 60s and married with two children. He had cash 
deposits of £225,000 left from the sale of his business the previous year. He had £40,000 
invested in premium bonds and £34,927 in a venture capital trust (VCT). The suitability letter 
said that Mr Y also had £285,000 invested in an ISA, but Mr Y had said those funds should 
have been described as part of his pension. 
Objectives
The suitability letter said Mr Ys objectives were to gain CGT and income tax relief by 
investing in an EIS and to invest in a speculative investment that offered the opportunity for 
growth. 
Based on that, and the earlier emails between Mr Y and Mr B, I was satisfied that Mr Y was 
looking to invest his capital in a tax efficient way and was interested in exploring the potential 
of EIS and VCT investments to achieve that.    
Timeframes for investmentThe suitability letter said Mr Y wanted to invest over a period of three years plus. Mr B 
recommended that Mr Y invest in Limited Life EIS which were designed to end shortly after 
the initial investment period of three years. He suggested that Mr Y was likely to be able to 
access his funds in year 4(ish) depending on the underlying investment companies. 
According to the suitability letter, Mr B also explained that the funds would be invested in 
unlisted companies and the sale of the investment may be delayed. 
I noted that at the meeting on 4 March 2016 Mr B provided Mr Y with copies of the 
information memorandums (IMs) and fund factsheets for the EIS he had recommended. 
These documents explained that the timetable for exit could not be guaranteed. 
In his complaint, Mr Y said he had not been able to exit from his investments when he 
wanted to even though six years had now passed. He said Mr B assured him the EIS 
investments were for a maximum period of three to four years, and he would be able to exit 
when he needed to. 
I thought about what Mr Y had said. But I thought it was made sufficiently clear to him that 
the timeframe for withdrawing funds could not be guaranteed with an EIS investment. 
And overall, I thought the investments were in line with Mr Ys aim of investing for three 
years plus. 
Attitude to risk
The suitability letter said that Mr B and Mr Y discussed Mr Ys attitude to risk in conjunction 
with the SJP brochure about investment risk and the different risk ratings.  The letter 
recorded the following about Mr Ys attitude to risk:
You confirmed you are a High Risk investor on our risk spectrum for this investment. 
You are looking for the potential to achieve exceptional returns but you accept that 
this will be at a high risk to capital. You have considerable experience of making 
investments and are able to invest for the long term. You are comfortable with a 
portfolio that may be highly concentrated and contain high risk and specialist 
investments, and accept that there may be sharp falls in the value of your
investments. 
Although your stated attitude to risk for this investment is high, this would
appear to differ from your previous ATR of medium based on your investment 
experience. We discussed this in detail and you have confirmed the reason for the 
change in ATR is because of this speculative investment into the EIS arena for the 
purpose of both claiming back tax, tax deferral and having a speculative 'punt' with 
your money.
I noted that Mr Y had disputed whether that was an accurate record of the discussion as he 
had said he was looking for a lower risk investment. However, Mr Y and Mr B had previously 
discussed EIS investments by email and in the earlier meeting on 19 February 2016. 
Although Mr Y had said he did not have substantive knowledge of EIS, as a retired financial 
adviser, I thought he would have been aware that an EIS was a high risk investment. 
From what Id seen, I thought Mr Y was prepared to take a high level of risk for this 
investment. 
At the meeting, Mr Y also signed a copy of SJPs EIS client declaration. In so doing, he 
confirmed that he understood an EIS was a high risk investment and that he could get back 
less than he originally invested. Mr Y was also given copies of the IMs and other documents 
relating to the EIS he was advised to invest in, and I thought those documents made clear 
the level of risk involved. Overall, I was satisfied that the EIS investments matched Mr Ys attitude to risk. 
Capacity for risk and affordability
As well as Mr Ys attitude to risk, SJP were also responsible for assessing his capacity to 
take a high level of risk and whether that was affordable for him.
Mr Y had retired the previous year and sold his business. Id not seen evidence from the 
suitability letter or elsewhere that Mr B obtained information from Mr Y about what sources of 
income he had and his monthly expenditure. In his submissions to our service, Mr Y had 
said he had no regular income and was not drawing a pension.
In the suitability letter Mr B recorded that following the EIS investments Mr Y would still have 
£128,875 in accessible cash accounts, including his premium bonds, to meet day to day 
cash needs and provide any emergency funds. He also said that a fall in the value of the 
investments would not have a significant impact on Mr Ys standard of living because he 
wasnt relying on it for income and had other assets available. And that the impact on Mr Ys 
disposable income would be neutral as he wasnt requiring an income from the investment.
Mr Bs advice was that Mr Y should put £136,125 into high risk investments which put all his 
capital at risk. I accepted that Mr Y was still left with substantial cash reserves and that he 
wasnt requiring an income from the investments. But, from what Id seen, I didnt think I had 
enough evidence to say that Mr Y had the capacity to recoup any losses that might arise.  
Id also taken account of how Mr Ys overall assets would be invested. In the suitability letter 
Mr B said the EIS investments would make up approximately 23.27% of Mr Ys assets. 
In addition, Mr Y already had £34,927 invested in a VCT and these are generally considered 
to be high risk investments as well. So, based on the figures Mr B used, Mr Y would have 
had 29.24% of his assets in high risk investments. 
However, Mr Y had also said that Mr B made a mistake when he listed his assets and that 
the £285,000 labelled as an ISA was a pension fund. He said those funds should have been 
excluded from the list and in that case the high risk EIS and VCT investments would have 
been shown to make up 57% of his assets. 
Even based on the list of assets in Mr Bs suitability letter, Mr Y would have had close to a 
third of his investments in high risk assets. And in the absence of any further evidence, I was 
minded to accept what Mr Y had said about his pension fund, which would mean over 50% 
of his investable assets being put at high risk. 
Id not seen evidence Mr Y had the capacity to recoup any losses he might face, so I thought 
he was advised to expose too much of his money to a high level of risk. And based on the 
suitability letter, I was not persuaded that was brought sufficiently to his attention. 
I made that finding even allowing for the tax benefits that the EIS investments offered to 
Mr Y. I accepted that Mr Y was looking for an investment that would offer tax relief on the 
proceeds from the sale of his business. But it was the responsibility of SJP to weigh up 
Mr Ys objectives, capacity for risk and the other factors Id discussed before making a 
recommendation to him. And based on the evidence Id seen  the emails between Mr Y and 
Mr B and the notes of their meetings - I didnt think they had done this before advising Mr Y 
to invest in the EIS. 
  
It seemed that Mr Y had suggested the possibility of investing in EIS in an email to Mr B in 
2015. Id also seen a copy of an email from Mr B to Mr Y dated 18 February 2016. That email was headed EIS advice  why should you use them now? and explained that Mr 
Y had a limited time period in which to invest in EIS and that it was one of your last great 
opportunities to secure a large level tax relief 
As Id noted earlier in my provisional decision, it appeared that Mr B and Mr Y then met on 
19 February 2016. According to Mr Bs summary, that meeting was a general review of 
Mr Ys finances with a focus on pensions and EIS. That was followed by their meeting on 
4 March 2016 where Mr Ys EIS application forms were completed. Although I had taken 
account of the record of the meeting provided by the suitability letter, I noted also that Mr Bs 
own summary of that meeting said At this meeting we focused purely on EIS provision  
So, I thought there was some evidence that Mr B had in effect already recommended the 
EIS investments to Mr Y even before their meetings on 19 February and 4 March 2016. 
And although there was some discussion of Mr Ys circumstances and capacity for risk at 
those meetings, I was not persuaded he was made fully aware of the extent of the risk he 
was taking when balanced against the tax benefits. And I thought the adviser should have 
given greater weight to the fact that a substantial proportion of Mr Ys assets were being 
exposed to the risk of capital losses that hed be unable to replace.
 
In coming to my provisional decision, Id also taken account of Mr Ys background as a 
retired financial adviser. He had investment experience of his own and substantial 
knowledge of investment products from his time as an advisor. So, based on Mr Ys 
knowledge and experience alone an EIS was potentially a suitable investment for him. 
But SJP were responsible for taking account of more than just Mr Ys investment experience 
in giving him suitable advice. Ultimately it was for SJP to recommend an investment that was 
suitable for Mr Ys needs and, for the reasons Id discussed, I didnt think the EIS 
investments were suitable. 
December 2016 advice
As well as the advice he was given in March 2016, Mr Y had also complained about SJPs 
advice that he invest a further £45,942 into EIS funds in December 2016. That followed 
Mr Ys receipt of a second payment of about £169,000 from the sale of his business. 
I thought SJPs advice in December 2016 was unsuitable for much the same reasons as the 
advice Mr Y was given in March 2016. The suitability letter dated 9 December 2016 said the 
recommended investments represented 9.93% of Mr Ys investable wealth which was within 
the allowable range. But Id not seen evidence that SJP made any assessment of the 
proportion of Mr Ys assets that would now be invested in high risk assets. 
Based on the investments listed in the suitability letter of 9 December 2016, it appeared that 
SJPs advice meant that about 45% of Mr Ys assets would be placed in high risk EIS or 
VCT investments. And, if I were to accept what Mr Y had said about his pension funds being 
wrongly categorised, then that percentage could have been at least 70%. In either case, 
I thought SJP were again recommending that Mr Y invest too high a proportion of his assets 
in high risk investments without the capacity to recoup any losses he might face. I didnt 
think that was made sufficiently clear to Mr Y and I didnt think SJPs advice was suitable to 
Mr Ys needs.   
 
Summary of provisional decision
Overall, I was not persuaded that the advice Mr Y was given in March and December 2016 
was suitable. Even allowing for the tax benefits the investments offered, I didnt think Mr Y 
was made aware of the extent of his overall exposure to risk, without the capacity to replace 
any capital losses. I said that when I thought a business had given unsuitable advice, I also had to decide what I 
thought would have happened if nothing had gone wrong. In this case I had thought about 
whether, even if hed been given suitable advice, Mr Y would still have gone ahead and 
invested in the EIS. As Id noted previously, his aim was to obtain tax relief, he was prepared 
to take a high level of risk and he had himself suggested the possibility of investing in EIS.  
But if Mr Y had understood the extent of his overall exposure to risk, I thought he would have 
concluded that the EIS investments would expose him to more risk than he wanted to take. 
If Mr Y had been given suitable advice, I thought he would most likely have invested 
differently. I said that I was therefore planning to uphold Mr Ys complaint and tell SJP to put 
things right.
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I said my aim should be to put Mr Y as close 
to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable advice. 
I thought Mr Y would have invested differently. It was not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done, but I chose a method of compensation that I was satisfied was fair and 
reasonable given Mr Y's circumstances and objectives when he invested. I did not think it 
was fair and reasonable for me to ask SJP to pay the legal fees Mr Y had incurred in making 
his complaint. 
I explained that, where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial 
business to pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I 
consider appropriate. My provisional decision was that SJP should pay the amount produced 
by the method of compensation I had set out up to the maximum of £160,000 plus any 
interest. I said that if the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeded 
£160,000, I recommended that SJP pay Mr Y the balance plus any interest on that amount.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Y accepted my provisional decision. 
SJP disagreed with my provisional decision and said, in summary, that:
Mr Y was due to receive an occupational defined benefit pension scheme from June 
2017, which would provide an income of £12,000 per annum. That would represent 60% 
of Mr Ys annual income requirements.
Mr Y also had personal pensions totalling £968,345, as shown on a fact find document 
which they say Mr Y and his wife completed with Mr B in December 2016. As he was 
over 55, the funds were fully accessible to him and showed he had sufficient capacity for 
loss in relation to the EIS investments.
SJP do not agree that readily available investments intended to provide an income in 
retirement should be excluded from considerations about investable wealth and capacity 
for loss. Leaving aside the ISA funds that Mr Y has said were incorrectly described, and 
taking account of his pensions, Mr Y invested just 14.7% of his investable wealth in EIS 
across the two advice points.   
Mr Y had almost £1 million available in personal pensions and was about to start 
receiving benefit from a defined benefit pension scheme. 
SJP cannot explain why Mr Ys pensions were not set out clearly in the suitability letters. 
But both Mr Y and Mr B were aware of them and how Mr Y could access the benefits. The fact find document completed in December 2016 showed the value of Mr Ys 
pensions, which would have been in place in March 2016. And the December 2016 
suitability letter made brief reference to Mr Ys investment experience in various pension 
plans. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes all the submissions made by both parties during the time this complaint has 
been with our service.
SJP have provided a copy of a fact find document listing Mr Ys pension plans. Although the 
document does not appear to be dated, the valuation date for the pensions is given as 8 
December 2016. So, I think its likely the fact find was completed in December 2016 when 
Mr Y was advised to make a second investment in EIS funds.
SJP have said that because Mr Ys pension plans were fully accessible to him, he had 
sufficient capacity to absorb any losses that might arise from his EIS investments. 
Ive thought carefully about what SJP have said and in coming to my decision Ive taken 
account of all information available about Mr Ys financial situation at the time - including his 
income, savings, investments, and pensions.
I noted in my provisional decision that Mr Y was in his early 60s at the time of SJPs initial 
advice and he had retired the previous year. Id not seen evidence that before making his 
recommendations in March 2016, Mr B had obtained information about Mr Ys income and 
monthly expenditure. Mr Y had said he had no regular income and was not drawing a 
pension.
The December 2016 fact find, which SJP have now provided, says that Mr Y was due to 
start receiving income from a pension of £12,000 a year. It put his net monthly income from 
pension and property at £1,624 and his total monthly expenditure at £1,000. That would 
have left Mr Y at that time with a monthly disposable income of £624.  
In March 2016, Mr Y had cash deposits of £225,000 left from the sale of his business the 
previous year. He had £40,000 invested in premium bonds and £34,927 in a venture capital 
trust (VCT). 
In my provisional decision I said I thought that over 50% of Mr Ys investable assets were put 
at high risk when he invested £136,125 in EIS in March 2016. And that rose to a least 70% 
with the further EIS investments he made in December 2016. The percentages were higher 
than those calculated by Mr B at the time because they took account of Mr Ys existing VCT 
investment and because I accepted Mr Ys statement that £285,000 of his pension funds had 
been incorrectly labelled as an ISA.  
It seems from the December 2016 fact find that Mr Y had pension plans valued at almost 
£1 million. Although Ive not seen evidence of a fact find being completed before Mr Y made 
his initial EIS investments in March 2016, I think its likely that his pensions would have had 
a broadly similar value at that time. As I noted in my provisional decision, it appears that 
Mr B and Mr Y had discussed pensions when they met on 19 February 2016. So, I think 
Mr B would have had some understanding of Mr Ys pension arrangements at the time of the 
initial advice in March 2016. SJP have said that Mr Ys pensions were part of his investable wealth and so the percentage 
of his assets being placed at high risk was much lower. They say the pension funds were 
readily available, which meant Mr Y had the capacity to absorb any losses.
I agree that information about Mr Ys pension funds was relevant to his overall financial 
situation and the suitability of any advice from SJP. But in assessing his capacity for loss, 
I think it is reasonable to make a distinction between his readily investible funds and the 
value of his pension plans. Although Mr Y might have been able to access his pension 
funds, I think he would have looked to them to provide security and an income during his 
retirement. Ive not seen any evidence that Mr Y was prepared to use those funds to replace 
any losses he might suffer on his investments.
  
I note that the fact find document Mr B completed in December 2016 listed Mr Ys pensions 
separately from his other assets. And Mr B did not include Mr Ys pension funds in his own 
calculations of the percentage of investible wealth in either the March 2016 or December 
2016 suitability letters, with the exception of the fund mistakenly described as an ISA.   
Across the two advice points, Mr B advised Mr Y to put over £180,000 of his funds into high 
risk investments which put all his capital at risk. The key point I need to decide is whether, 
in view of his overall financial situation, Mr Y had the capacity to take a high level of risk with 
those funds and whether that was affordable for him. 
Taking account of all the information I have seen about Mr Ys financial situation at the time - 
and noting that he had significant cash reserves, and pensions to fund his retirement - I dont 
think I can fairly say he had the capacity to recoup any losses that might arise from the EIS 
investments. I think he was advised to expose too much of his money to a high level of risk 
and, based on the suitability letters, Im not persuaded that was brought sufficiently to his 
attention. I dont think Mr Y was made aware of the extent of his overall exposure to risk and 
that he might in effect be reliant on his pension funds to replace any capital losses. 
As I said at the time of my provisional findings, I have come to this decision even allowing for 
the tax benefits that the EIS investments offered to Mr Y. Im not persuaded he was made 
fully aware of the extent of the risk he was taking when balanced against the tax benefits. 
And I think the adviser should have given greater weight to the fact that a substantial 
proportion of Mr Ys assets were being exposed to the risk of capital losses that hed be 
unable to replace. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that the advice Mr Y was given in March and December 2016 
was suitable. If Mr Y been given suitable advice and understood the extent of his overall 
exposure to risk, I think he would most likely have invested differently.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr Y as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr Y would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr Y's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must SJP do?
To compensate Mr Y fairly, SJP must:Compare the performance of each of Mr Y's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. The resultant 
figures should then be added up. If the calculation still shows a loss, that would be 
the amount payable to Mr Y.
SJP should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
5 EIS 
investments 
in 
March/April 
2016Still exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
3 EIS 
investments 
in December 
2016Still exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr Y agrees to SJP taking ownership 
of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for SJP to take ownership, then it may 
request an undertaking from Mr Y that he repays to SJP any amount he may receive from 
the investment in future.
SJP may also add to the actual value any available tax reliefs Mr Y has received by virtue of 
making the investment. It may ask him for evidence of this or assume he has availed himself 
of all available relief at his marginal rate of tax. For ease it can calculate the value of the 
available relief and add it to the actual value as one figure at the end.Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if SJP totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. 
If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left 
uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr Y wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Y's circumstances and risk attitude.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I do not think it is fair and reasonable for me to ask 
SJP to pay the legal fees Mr Y has incurred in making his complaint.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
St James's Place Wealth Management Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mr Y 
in a clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that St James's Place Wealth Management Plc pay Mr Y 
the balance plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind St James's 
Place Wealth Management Plc. It is unlikely that Mr Y can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mr Y may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that St James's Place Wealth Management Plc should pay Mr Y the amount produced by that calculation  up to a 
maximum of £160,000 plus any interest set out above.
If St James's Place Wealth Management Plc do not pay the full fair compensation, then any 
investment currently illiquid should be retained by Mr Y. This is until any future benefit that 
he may receive from the investment together with the compensation paid by St James's 
Place Wealth Management Plc (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair 
compensation as set out above.
St James's Place Wealth Management Plc may request an undertaking from Mr Y that 
either he repays to St James's Place Wealth Management Plc any amount Mr Y may 
receive from the investment thereafter or if possible, transfers the investment at that point.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman