DRN-2706100
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he has received from Nationwide Building Society. In 
particular, he is unhappy with the delays he has experienced from Nationwide actioning his 
requests.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I understand Mr Hs frustration. He sent Nationwide two letters in April 2020 and 
neither were actioned or acknowledged before his letter of complaint in May 2020. 
One of these letters was requesting a change to his mortgage interest rate and the 
other included a cheque for £25 to pay into his account. 
The rate change letter was sent to Nationwides head office but unfortunately it 
doesnt appear to have been received. 
Nationwide has confirmed that the branch that Mr H wrote to with a cheque was 
closed from the beginning of April due to the ongoing pandemic. They have said that 
a notice was put up on their website regarding this and that there was a notice on the 
branch door to say that post could not be accepted there and should be forwarded to 
a different branch. It doesnt appear that this letter was forwarded on by Royal Mail. 
I am satisfied that Nationwide did not receive either letter before receipt of the letter 
of complaint. 
The pandemic was unprecedented and unfortunately some branch services did have 
to close due to staffing issues and restrictions. I accept from Nationwide that this was 
one such branch. They had to make decisions which they felt were right and in the 
interest of the safety of their staff and customers. 
Mr H has said that they should have done more to make customers like him who may 
not have access to the Nationwide website, aware that their local branch was closed. 
However, I understand that there were branch closures at the time and I think that 
was understandable. I think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in leaving a note 
on the website and branch door. 
When Nationwide received Mr Hs complaint letter, they apologised and confirmed 
the cheque would need to be reissued and they would then action it. They also 
confirmed they had now actioned Mr Hs mortgage review request and would send 
confirmation. I think Nationwide acted fairly here and I wouldnt expect them to do 
any more. 
Mr Hs frustration is understandable. But these were unusual times and although 
things didnt go smoothly, Nationwide did what he needed it to do, when it could, and 
so compensation isnt appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Nationwide Building Society to take any further 
action to resolve this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman