DRN-3054694
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
April 1992. Mr D says Braford and Bingley mis-sold him the PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ds 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr D representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ds. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Bradford and Bingley made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it out. Ill explain why.
The PPI was taken during a meeting when Mr D was arranging his mortgage. Bradford 
and Bingley has provided a copy of the application form that was completed at the time. 
Within this application form I can see there is a separate section for PPI and a Yes has 
been written next to the question asking if PPI is required. The level of cover has also 
been decided based on Mr Ds repayments for the mortgage.
I cant say for certain what was discussed during the meeting but looking at this form it 
seems there was a discussion about the PPI. I wouldve expected Mr D to read over the 
form and to have had an opportunity to raise any questions he had at the time before 
signing it. So, taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr D knew the 
policy was optional and he to take it out without undue pressure.
Bradford and Bingley didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D - so it didnt have to check that 
the PPI was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr D enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.  
Its possible the information Bradford and Bingley gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr D  for example 
he wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. It also wasnt too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong, especially as Mr D had no other means to help him 
meet his mortgage repayments should he be unable to work. Because of this I dont think 
Mr D would have declined the cover had Bradford and Bingley done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr D would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Bradford and Bingley should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ds particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means Bradford and Bingley Plc doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Chandni GreenOmbudsman