DRN-3769977
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to refund over £15,000 he lost as 
part of a scam where he issued cheques to a scammer in exchange for returns on an art 
investment.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr J says he was contacted by a man regarding an investment 
opportunity, which resulted in him paying two cheques to a company called Arabella 
Bespoke Interiors Ltd for £1,500 and £14,000 in October/November 2020. He was told he 
was investing in Spanish artwork and would receive great returns. However, he did not 
receive any return on his investment.
Mr Js family suspected he had been the victim of a scam. They complained to HSBC as the 
bank had failed to prevent the loss, and also said it should have been aware that Mr J was a 
vulnerable customer. The bank noted that the cheque payment was out of character, but it 
didnt think it could have done anything to have prevented the loss.  
Our investigator upheld the complaint, as he thought that HSBC could have prevented the 
scam if it had intervened and questioned Mr J about the payment. HSBC disagreed, so the 
matter was escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2022. I said I was minded to 
reach a different outcome to the investigator as I didnt intend upholding it, and set out the 
following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr J authorised the payments made to Arabella Bespoke 
Interiors Ltd. The payments were requested by him via cheque and the starting 
position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether there was any obligation on HSBC to have 
prevented Mr J from falling victim to a scam. But Im not satisfied there was in this 
instance. I appreciate that Mr J and his family consider he has been the victim of 
a scam, and I can understand why. But I do not consider there to be sufficient 
evidence to substantiate this claim. 
Mr Js representatives have not been able to provide any evidence of the scam 
(such as correspondence between the two parties, or promotional literature 
setting out the investment opportunity), other than the cheques that were issued 
by Mr J to Arabella Bespoke Interiors Ltd. 
When a company is operating a scam, it is typical to see that others have also 
fallen victim to the scam, where there will be numerous warnings placed online 
on forums and other websites. However, there is little online to suggest that the 
company was operating a scam. 
Our service has also made enquiries with the bank in which Mr Js funds were 
paid to ask about the account. The receiving bank confirmed that it is a business 
account for Arabella Bespoke Interiors Ltd, and that they have received no other 
reports in relation to fraud or scams for that account. Again, when a company is 
operating a scam, its typical that the receiving bank would have received multiple 
claims from people trying to get their money back or accusing the company of 
fraudulent practices. But in this instance, Mr J is the only person to have raised 
any concerns about the account. So, overall, I do not think there is enough 
evidence here to suggest there was a scam that HSBC ought to have prevented.
I appreciate that Mr Js family are no longer able to contact the merchant. But I 
can see from Companies House that Arabella Bespoke Interiors Ltd has since 
gone into liquidation, which may potentially be why they are unable to speak to 
anyone at the company, and why Mr J did not receive anything in return for his 
investment. 
I note that HSBC have acknowledged that the transactions were out of character 
for Mr J. But in these circumstances, Im not persuaded that any questioning or 
discussion about the purpose of the payments would have likely resulted in Mr J 
thinking he was being scammed. HSBC has no obligation to protect its customers 
from bad bargains or to provide investment advice. So, given the circumstances 
here, I dont consider HSBC was under any obligation to prevent the payments 
from being made. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment, and Im sorry to hear about the 
deterioration in Mr Js health, for which I offer my sympathies to his family. However, in 
the circumstances I do not think HSBC can fairly or reasonably be held liable for Mr Js 
loss, so I do not intend asking them to take any action. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. However, neither Mr Js 
representatives nor HSBC responded with anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has submitted any further comments or evidence for consideration, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out above in my provisional decision. 
Ive therefore decided not to uphold the complaint as there is not enough evidence to 
suggest that Mr J was actually scammed. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman