DRN-3142040
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds offer to settle a claim for a 
lost bracelet under her home contents insurance.  
What happened
Mrs R says two of her bracelets were lost or stolen while on holiday. She reported this to 
Lloyds and agreed to settle the claim for bracelet 2. But, in relation to bracelet 1 she didnt 
accept their offer of £1,750 in cash or £3,500 in vouchers for a particular jeweller. So, Mrs R 
complained. 
Lloyds responded and explained they had appointed a supplier  who Ill refer to as 
company G - to replace the bracelets on a like for like basis and the offer they had made 
was reasonable.   
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mrs R and Lloyds on 5 October 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
My starting point is Mrs Rs home contents policy. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and theres no dispute here that the loss of Mrs Rs bracelets is covered under 
the terms of the policy. Under a section headed How we settle claims under your 
Contents covers, it says:
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead. 
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the nearest 
equivalent less any discounts obtainable.
If an item is irreplaceable, we will base our payment on expert opinion of its value 
immediately prior to its loss or damage. 
The dispute here relates to the settlement terms offered by Lloyds for bracelet 1. Mrs R 
says Lloyds offer is unacceptable as, every year, she insures bracelet 1 under her home 
and contents insurance for £7,000. Lloyds say, when a customer cannot provide 
evidence to support the value of an item they rely on their experts to assess the value 
and settle on their findings. They say the settlement amount offered is in line with the 
terms and conditions. 
Insurers often appoint experts experienced in this type of work to value an item, and 
thats what Lloyds did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Lloyds to rely 
on the experts valuation when deciding on the terms of any claim settlement. Lloyds 
appoint company G to value both bracelets. I can see theres initially a dispute around 
the purity of the gold bracelets but Lloyds then agree to settle the claim on the basis of 
them being 18ct  which is what Mrs R claims they are. Company G assess the retail 
value of bracelet 1 at £3,500 or a cash settlement of £1,750.    
Given that bracelet 1 is lost, company G arent able to inspect it for the purpose of 
valuing it. And, Mrs R says she isnt able to provide any evidence of valuation. But I can 
see company G have looked at photos of bracelet 1 to carry out an assessment  and I 
dont think thats unreasonable in the circumstances. Its not my role to carry out a 
valuation of bracelet 1, but to look at whether Lloyds have followed a fair process to 
arrive at a valuation. And, given they have instructed an expert who has then based their 
valuation on the only information available, I think Lloyds have followed a fair process. 
I understand Mrs R says bracelet 1 was insured for £7,000  and I agree this is what the 
policy documents show under the specified items cover. But, this isnt based on a 
valuation, but rather, what Mrs R feels bracelet 1 is worth. Insurers often ask for this 
information to help assess risk and whether they are prepared to provide cover. 
This takes me to the next point of dispute  which is the offer of a voucher or a cash 
settlement. And, the latter being half the value of the voucher. Its general industry 
practice that insurers will offer consumers a voucher as an alternative to cash. This often 
happens in jewellery claims as a high street jeweller may be able to provide reasonable 
matches of jewellery. The voucher is restricted to certain retailers and allows the 
consumer to use the voucher with those retailers to get whatever items they want. The 
reason why insurers use vouchers is because they get a discounted price from the 
voucher supplier. And, that is the case here. Lloyds say the cash settlement of £1,750 
represents the cost of the voucher to them after the supplier discount. The terms and 
conditions also allow Lloyds to take into consideration any discounts available to them 
when settling claims. So, I dont think Lloyds offer of a voucher or a cash settlement 
representing half the voucher value is unreasonable.   
Lloyds have provided a photo and a description of a replacement bracelet available from 
their supplier which is valued at £3,500. Ive looked at this and compared it to the photos 
of Mrs R wearing bracelet 1 and the description she provides to company G. And, I think 
the replacement offered by Lloyds is a reasonable match for bracelet 1. So, given that 
company G  who will be honouring the voucher  have shown they have a reasonably 
matched replacement available, I dont think Lloyds offer of a voucher or cash 
settlement is unreasonable.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R as I understand bracelet 1 holds sentimental value for her. 
But, my role is to consider whether Lloyds have acted fairly and reasonably in deciding 
her claim. And, for the reasons I have set out, I think they have.  
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs R or Lloyds, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to decide that the offer made by Lloyds is fair in all the circumstances. 
Following my provisional decision, Lloyds have responded to say they have nothing further 
to add. Mrs R has responded to say she has consistently, for the last 10 years, valued and 
insured bracelet 1 for £7,000 and Lloyds have never indicated this isnt adequate without a 
formal valuation. Mrs R feels Lloyds are at fault for not making it clear that bracelet 1 was not 
to be valued at this amount. Mrs R has also provided a written valuation from on overseas 
jeweller who carried out some minor repair work to bracelet 1 in previous years. This shows 
the valuation as €12,000. Mrs R says Lloyds assessment doesnt take into consideration the 
quality of the diamonds. Mrs R says she doesnt like the quality of the gold offered by 
company G so a voucher wont be useful. Mrs R says she would settle for £3,500 as a cash 
settlement which will allow her to purchase a replacement from a supplier of her choice.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Lloyds offer is a fair way to resolve matters for the reasons set 
out in my provisional decision and copied above.
Firstly, Ive noted Mrs Rs point about using a valuation of £7,000 when insuring bracelet 1. I 
do acknowledge Mrs Rs thoughts on this but, as mentioned in my provisional decision, this 
information is something which insurers often ask for to help assess risk and whether they 
are prepared to provide cover. And, while its up to an insurer whether they wish to ask for 
evidence of this, generally they dont as they rely on what the customer tells them. But, the 
lack of challenge from an insurer at that point doesnt mean the insurer agrees with the 
valuation. The assessment of a valuation arises if, and when, a customer makes a claim  
and thats what has happened here. So, I dont think Lloyds needed to point out to Mrs R, 
either when she first took out the policy or on renewal, if they felt the £7,000 valuation wasnt 
adequate or that they require a formal valuation. 
Ive looked at the valuation provided by Mrs R but Im not persuaded this demonstrates 
Lloyds have been unfair in their assessment. The valuation is for €12,000 but the bracelet 
being valued is described as a 18ct yellow gold bracelet with diamonds whereas the 
description of bracelet 1 given to Lloyds is white gold and diamond bracelet. In addition to 
this, Ive looked at the police report and the valuation for bracelet 1 given to them is for 
€6,000. I think both of these points do raise an issue of consistency and doesnt support the 
information in the valuation document. In addition to this, Mrs R wouldve been aware of the 
valuation of bracelet 1 at the point the incident was reported to the police but I havent been 
provided with any reasonable explanation for why the valuation given to the police is half of 
the valuation given by the overseas jeweller.  
I also note Mrs Rs point about Lloyds not taking into consideration the quality of the 
diamonds. I can see they have taken into consideration the quality of the gold, and that is the 
same as the purity described in the valuation by the overseas jeweller. But, the valuation 
document also doesnt comment on the quality of the diamonds so I cant see this would 
provide further information to Lloyds to enable them to assess the quality and weight of the 
diamonds. So, taking this all into account, Im not persuaded this information suggests 
Lloyds assessment is unreasonable. The assessment carried out by Lloyds has been based 
on all information available to them so I cant say they have carried out their assessment in 
an unfair or unreasonable manner. 
I do understand Mrs Rs reasons for wanting a cash settlement and I do acknowledge the 
freedom of choice this would give her when looking for a replacement. But, I do think the 
terms and conditions are clear about what happens in such instances and the steps Lloyds 
will take when looking to settle a claim. I think Lloyds have offered a voucher which allows 
Mrs R to obtain a reasonably matched replacement so I dont think its unfair for them to 
decline to offer a cash settlement for the same value as the voucher.    
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited have already made an offer of a voucher for £3,500 or a cash settlement of £1,750 
to Mrs R to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited should settle Mrs Rs claim in line with this, if  
Mrs R accepts. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman