DRN-2016525
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with fees and interest applied by Lloyds Bank PLC in relation to a 
transaction on his credit card. 
What happened
Mr C has a Lloyds credit card. In December 2019 he made a payment of £5,000 to a vendor. 
The transaction was for a spread bet.
Lloyds applied a fee of £150 (3% of the transaction)  the charge listed in its terms and 
conditions for cash transactions. It did so because Lloyds treats gambling, including spread 
betting, the same as cash withdrawals. The transaction also began accruing interest 
immediately  again in line with how Lloyds treats cash withdrawals. 
Mr C complained to Lloyds because he did not think this was fair. Mr C also said that hed 
had to call Lloyds to authorise this payment and the fee was not mentioned at that time  
which he again didnt feel was fair  and he said that, if it had been, he wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the transaction. 
Lloyds didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that the fee and interest were applied 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. It also said that the department Mr C 
spoke to when authorising the payment specialised in fraud procedures and it wasnt part of 
their role to give advice about fees.
Unhappy with this response Mr C asked our service to look into the complaint. As well as still 
being unhappy he wasnt told about the fee when he called Lloyds, Mr C said he still thought 
the fee was unfair and should be refunded. He said he didnt think customers could be 
expected to know every aspect of Lloyds account terms and conditions  which he accepted 
do confirm spread betting would be treated as a cash withdrawal. And he also felt Lloyds 
decision to treat spread betting as a cash transaction was unusual. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt feel Lloyds had done anything wrong. 
He thought that Lloyds was entitled to apply the fee and interest as it had acted in line with 
the terms of the account and that the terms were clear about this. He noted that Lloyds had 
referred Mr C to the terms and conditions, and recommended he review them, earlier in 
2019 when hed been unhappy with a different charge that had been applied.
Mr C did not agree with the investigators opinion. He said he didnt deny that the terms and 
conditions allowed for this fee to be applied. But he felt that because the decision by Lloyds 
to classify spread betting as a cash transaction was unusual, he had no reason to review the 
terms to check this. He also noted the length of the terms and conditions and said customers 
couldnt reasonably be expected to remember every term. Mr C also feels this term 
shouldve been made clearer to him. He also felt that the investigators findings were at odds 
with our findings in several other complaints about the clarity of terms.
The investigator looked at things again but wasnt minded to change their opinion  noting 
that he didnt agree that this term was unusual as a number of credit card providers 
approach gambling transactions in the same way.
Mr C did not agree with the investigators opinion so asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr C feels strongly about this and has made a number of points to explain why he 
thinks the fee and interest should be refunded. Ive focussed my decision on what I consider 
to be the key points in this dispute and so have not necessarily commented on every point 
Mr C has made. But I want to reassure him that Ive thought about everything hes raised in 
coming to my decision. 
There is no dispute that the transaction of £5,000 in December 2019 was in respect of a 
spread bet  Mr C acknowledges this. And all parties agree that the fee and interest in 
dispute stem from this transaction and were applied to the account because this transaction 
was treated as a cash withdrawal.
Lloyds has provided a copy of the terms and conditions of Mr Cs credit card agreement. I 
can see there is a section on fees and charges which confirm that cash transactions incur a 
fee. There is another section setting out how interest is calculated which explains that all 
cash transactions start incurring interest immediately, unless a promotional offer applies. 
And there is a section on making transactions which gives information about the different 
types of transaction that can be made using the credit card. This lists gambling transactions, 
including spread betting, under cash withdrawals. I think this information is clear.
And Mr C has accepted that the terms and conditions explain that gambling transactions, of 
which spread betting is one, will be treated as cash withdrawals.
So, Im satisfied that Lloyds has applied the charge and interest in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Cs account. And I dont think it has acted unfairly.
Mr C doesnt think Lloyds can fairly rely on those terms. He has said that Lloyds position of 
treating spread betting as cash withdrawals is unusual. Lloyds is entitled to decide its own 
processes. How it wishes to categorise transactions is a matter of its own commercial 
judgement, which we would not usually interfere with. All I would add is that based on my 
knowledge of similar complaints I dont believe Lloyds is alone in treating gambling 
transactions made on credit cards in this way. So, I dont think its approach is unusual. What 
we would expect, where it has taken such a decision, is for the account terms and conditions 
to explain this to its customers. And as Ive explained, I think the terms do so, and are clear.
Mr C has also said, because he felt Lloyds approach was unusual, he had no reason to think 
this transaction would be treated as a cash withdrawal beforehand, so had no reason to 
check the terms  which he doesnt think any customer could reasonably memorise. 
I agree Mr C is not required to memorise the terms. But Lloyds has made them available to 
him, and its other customers, for reference. So, I dont think there was an expectation on him 
to memorise them. As for Mr C not thinking that a spread bet would be considered a cash withdrawal, I do 
understand the point he is making. But just because he didnt anticipate this, doesnt mean 
Lloyds has done anything wrong or isnt allowed to apply the terms of the account.
I dont think it would be reasonable, for example, to expect Lloyds to contact Mr C, by 
whatever channel, before he made a spread bet, reminding him of this term, on the off 
chance he may do so in the future. The terms and conditions cover this scenario, and in my 
opinion are clear. And again, these were made available to Mr C. So, unless Lloyds was 
specifically asked about how the transaction would be categorised, I dont think it needed to 
do more. 
Both parties agree that Mr C spoke to Lloyds to authorise the transaction and that he wasnt 
reminded of the fees at that time. But while I can see why Mr C might think this shouldve 
happened, again I dont think Lloyds was required to do so unprompted. I think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to have thought that Mr C understood the terms, as it wasnt asked to 
clarify them.
So, taking everything into account, I think the fee and interest have been applied in line with 
the terms and conditions of the credit card, and I dont think Lloyds has acted unreasonably.
I can see Mr C has made reference to a number of previous decisions made by our service 
as to why he thinks Lloyds isnt entitled to rely on the terms and conditions of the agreement 
he has with it here. But looking at the examples he has provided these cases, in my opinion, 
cover different scenarios to the one Ive been asked to look into. And in any event the 
ombudsman service looks at complaints on their individual merits.  And for the reasons Ive 
already explained, I dont think Lloyds has made an error here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman