DRN-4044368
The complaint
Miss E and her mother Ms J complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled
a claim on a motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car made by a premium brand
manufacturer and first registered in 2018.
From at least 5 September 2020, Ms J had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with
Admiral. Ms J was the policyholder. Miss E was a named driver.
In about March 2021, Miss E took the car to a garage franchised by the manufacturer. The
garage said that the SRS plug had sustained water damage.
Miss E renewed the policy in her name in July 2021.
In November 2021, Miss E made a claim to Admiral for water damage. Admiral sent a
vehicle assessor. Admiral declined to pay the claim.
Miss E complained to Admiral that it shouldve met her claim. By a final response dated
January 2022, Admiral said it would pay Miss E £70.00 as compensation for delays in
dealing with the claim. Otherwise it turned down her complaint.
Miss E brought the complaint to us in March 2022.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt initially recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought
that the circumstances Miss E experienced werent covered under the terms of the policy.
He thought that Admirals offer of £70.00 was fair for the service issues she experienced.
Miss E provided further information and our investigator changed his view. The investigator
recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it very likely that the fault
with Miss Es vehicle was caused by driving through a flood. He recommended that Admiral
should deal with the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
At our request, Ms J joined in the complaint. Miss E declined to have the vehicle re-
inspected.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss E 
and Ms J and to Admiral on 27 February 2023. I summarise my findings:
Id thought about directing Admiral to meet Miss Es claim, as the investigator 
recommended.
However, I was troubled about the delay between the incident in the winter of 
2020/2021 and Miss Es claim in November 2021.
I was also troubled about the lack of current information (at the end of February 
2023) about the mileage, condition, diagnosis and estimated cost of repair of the car.
So I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to meet the claim 
without further consideration
Subject to any further information from Miss E and Ms J or from Admiral, my provisional 
decision was to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to:
1. reconsider Miss Es claim; and
2. if and insofar as it pays her claim, add simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% from the 
date of her claim to the date of payment. If Admiral considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss E 
how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Miss E has responded to the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
Since raising the case with Admiral, the car has had several more problems, some 
which she has found out recently, due to it not being used.
The main battery is completely drained. There has been an ongoing battery issue 
from November 2021 that she raised to Admiral when she initially made the claim. 
She had to take the car on small 10- minute drives to keep the battery from going 
dead is she did not drive it for 2 days. Since the cars MOT ran out, she hasnt been 
able to keep up with this. She got the manufacturers roadside assistance to recharge 
the battery recently as she feared leaving the battery dead for so long would have a 
worse knock- on effect to the car. She was advised at this time that the battery is 
completely drained, so it will no longer take any charge. As soon as it turns off it will 
need to be recharged to start again. The main battery dying has now affected the 
auxiliary battery. Shes attached a screen shot of the warning lights shown for this. A 
specialist said the main battery is around £250.00 whilst the auxiliary battery is 
around £100.00.
Due to the cars battery continuously dying, the satnav update was not completed. 
This has affected the main dashboard screen so the car can no longer play music, 
take calls or use the satnav system. This is something only the manufacturers 
computers can update. Theyve said the update can take anywhere from 1-5 hours, 
with the price ranging from £150.00-£700.00 depending on how long it takes.
Since November 2021, due to her concerns of her and her babys safety, the car was 
hardly driven. Her baby was born in mid- October. When the assessor came to 
inspect the car, she was holding her newborn baby and told him her concerns. She 
was going through postpartum depression. So it was really worrying how they could 
not at least get the car stripped that she continually begged for, to conclude an actual 
investigation but instead the assessor based his verdict on the fact that the floor mat 
was not wet, even though she told him the incident happened several months ago. 
Admiral are now interested in getting the car stripped. It was never genuinely 
assessed except the assessors 5- minute assessment.
The manufacturers roadside assistance has data of how often the car was driven 
and how long it was driven for. This can show that the car was not genuinely being 
used. It would only be taken out for short drives to keep the battery charged. This has cost her financially as she has had to continuously top up petrol since November 
2021.
Shes recently had a loss in the family where shes had to find the financial means to 
travel back and forth to mourn with her family. If she wasnt paying for her car note or 
insurance, the impact of this might not have been so bad. But shes had to continue 
to pay £250.00 insurance since the accident until July 2022 where it was reduced to 
£150.00 that she still pays, as well as the £314.00 car note that shes still paying 
every month. This has been a huge financial burden for a whole year and a half. 
Shes still had to continue with day-to-day life, thats cost her financially for transport 
because she was never given a courtesy car.
Admiral hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that the car was first registered in November 2018. So I find it likely that for the 
three years to November 2021, the car was under warranty from the manufacturer and didnt 
need an MOT certificate. From what Miss E has said, the manufacturer also provided 
roadside assistance.
In early November 2022, Miss E sent us an email from which I draw the following order of
events:
There was an incident when it was raining so heavy that it created large puddles on 
the road that were unavoidable, that she couldn't even see because of how hard it 
was raining.
After driving through the flood, she or Ms J contacted Admiral with a general question 
about flood damage. Ms J also looked at Admirals website and found information 
about flood damage. She concluded that the policy wouldnt cover damage from 
driving through a flood.
She took the car to a franchised garage who (without saying what was wrong with the 
car) gave a huge verbal estimate of the repair cost.
She took the car to a garage who said that water damage tends to have a high repair 
cost.
She took the car to another garage who stripped the car, drained and recharged the 
battery, dried the engine out in the sun and said the car was operating fine.
She or Ms J took the car to a different franchised garage who stripped the car for free 
under the warranty and gave a breakdown of the damage.
In November 2021, another car splashed the car. After not driving it for a few days, 
the battery was completely dead. So she or Ms J called for roadside assistance who 
charged the battery. But more warning lights appeared.
She made a claim to Admiral, saying that the car had been splashed by another car.
After going back and forth with the manufacturer, she told Admiral that it was actually 
an ongoing issue from when she had driven through a flood. Admiral said it covered 
flood damage.
Admiral sent an assessor. She told him she had driven through a flood months 
before. He told Admiral that rain couldnt create the damage.
I understand that SRS is an abbreviation of Supplement Restraint System which relatesto the monitoring of seatbelts and airbags.
Ive seen a visual health check dated 23 March 2021. It includes a recorded mileage of
about 16,000 miles. It also includes the following: 
water damage to SRS plug, requires harness £4569 inc VAT
Ive also seen an email dated October 2022 in which the garage confirms that (following an
earlier opinion from another franchised garage) it had given a second opinion. It said that 
in March 2021  it had found heavy water ingress under the carpets in the front of the car.
It found it likely that the vehicle had been driven through a flood, and water had gone over 
the bonnet into the air vents.
I find it likely that the car had suffered water damage over the winter of 2020/2021, as Miss E
or Ms J had taken the car to three other garages before the second franchised garage
stripped the car and reported on 23 March 2021.
Miss E made her claim to Admiral in November 2021.
The vehicle assessor inspected the car on 2 December 2021. The recorded mileage was
18,976. He took photographs of warning lights including one relating to the restraint system
with an icon that looks like an airbag. He noted Miss Es statement that the warning light had
first come on shortly after an incident in rain on a motorway some months previously, and a
franchised garage had quoted about £4,000.00.
Ive seen an online vehicle check that says that on 11 December 2021, the car failed an
MOT test because of an inoperative airbag and a warning light relating to stability control. It
had a recorded mileage of about 19,100. The car passed an MOT later that day. So I find it
likely that a garage found at least a temporary solution that day.
From a call on 23 December 2021, I find that Miss E told Admiral that she had driven
through a flood. The next day, Admiral wrote a letter to Miss E, saying that its assessor
would review a diagnostic and health report.
From a call on 10 January 2022, I find that the assessor told Admiral that the issue dated
from March 2021.
The assessor did an update report dated 12 January 2022. He said he had seen the visual
health check and the MOT information. He had contacted the second franchised dealer but
had been unable to establish where the SRS plug was located in the vehicle. He couldnt
see any correlation between heavy rainfall and the faut.
I note that the assessor didnt address the point that the health check said that the vehicle
needed a new harness and that the cost was over £4,000.00.
The franchised garage said that the SRS plug was in the centre console. The assessors
email to Admiral dated 2 February 2022 referred to the damage to the SRS plug and said the
following:
The only way a component in this area could suffer water damage would be if flood
water entered the vehicle via the doors etc
Miss Es Admiral policy was due to expire in July 2022.
The MOT expired on 10 December 2022. Theres no record that the car has passed or failedanother MOT test.
I find it more likely than not that in the winter of 2020/2021, Miss E drove through standing
water on a motorway. As it was a motorway, I dont find it likely that she couldve stopped or
avoided the water.
I have no reason to find that she was reckless in driving through the water. So  in line with
our usual approach to such cases  I wouldnt find it fair and reasonable for Admiral to
decline the claim on the grounds that Miss E had been careless in driving through the water.
Ive weighed up what Miss E, the franchised dealer and the assessor have each said about 
the car. I find that the incident on the motorway caused the damage to the car noted in the 
March 2021 health check. So I dont consider that Admiral treated Miss E fairly by declining 
her claim on the grounds that there was no insured event.
Response to the provisional decision
Im sorry to hear that Miss E has had further problems with the car, which she hasnt t been 
able to use but which has continued to cost her money.
However, Miss E hasnt offered any further explanation for the delay between the incident in 
the winter of 2020/2021 and her claim in November 2021. From what shes said, the cars 
recorded mileage is still not much over 19,000. Shes mentioned the cost of new batteries 
and a satnav update. 
However, a franchised garage had said in March 2021 that the car needed a new harness at 
a cost of over £4,000.00. And Miss E hasnt provided an updated diagnosis or cost estimate 
from a garage. 
Putting things right
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to meet the claim without further 
consideration. Rather, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to reconsider Miss Es 
claim. To be clear, that may include a consideration by Admiral of the delay in making the 
claim and any effect on the repairs that are necessary. Also, it will include a consideration by 
Admiral of whether the car is beyond economic repair and so a total loss.
I will direct Admiral to pay interest at our usual rate insofar as it pays the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
 direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to: 
1. reconsider Miss Es claim; and
2. if and insofar as it pays her claim, add simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% from the 
date of her claim to the date of payment. If Admiral considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss E 
how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman