Complaint
Mrs M says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs M took out to cover the repayments on a store card 
in 1998. Its been agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the 
complaint. So, for clarity, Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Both Mrs M and FICL say the PPI was sold over the phone some time after the store card 
was taken out, but there isnt much more information available about the sale. Mrs M says 
the PPI was added without her consent, but she hasnt given us much detail about what was 
said. And FICL hasnt been able to send us a recording of the call or a script showing what 
wouldve been said. Due to the amount of time that has passed since the sale though, I dont 
think this is unreasonable.
As Mrs Ms store card had been open for some time before the phone call, I dont think she 
can reasonably have thought she had to have the PPI to get the card. And, because of the 
limited information available, I dont think theres enough evidence for me to say that FICL 
added the PPI without Mrs Ms consent. So I think its likely FICL made it clear to Mrs M that 
she had a choice about the PPI, and that Mrs M chose to take it knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen clear evidence that FICL gave Mrs M any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont think it recommended it to her. This means FICL didnt have to check if the PPI 
was right for Mrs M. But it did still have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than Mrs M says she wouldve been 
DRN-1034681entitled to full sick pay. And shes told us she didnt have any savings or other means she 
couldve used to make her repayments if she wasnt earning.  So it looks like the PPI 
couldve been useful to her if something went wrong.
And so I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve put Mrs M off taking it out.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman