DRN-2799753
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Coventry Building Society didnt reduce the interest rate on 
their mortgage in March 2020 in line with reductions in the Bank of England base rate (base 
rate). Theyve said that when the base rate increased those increases were passed on 
straight away, but when the base rate fell Coventry chose not to pass those reductions on.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had an existing mortgage with Coventry, and they applied to switch that to a 
new interest rate product. A mortgage offer was issued in April 2016 which set out the terms 
of the mortgage contract. That said Mr and Mrs M were borrowing £444,440 over 18 years 
and 6 months on a repayment basis. The product was called Flexx for Term and that was 
described in the offer as A variable rate, currently 1.85%, which is managed by Coventry 
Building Society and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of 
England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. The mortgage transferred to the new 
product on 1 June 2016.
In August 2016 Coventry wrote to Mr and Mrs M to tell them the interest rate, and therefore 
the monthly payments, on their mortgage was going down. The letter said In line with the 
terms and conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our variable 
mortgage rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base Rate and 
the costs involved in providing your mortgage. As a result we are please to confirm that we 
are reducing your mortgage rate to 1.60%.
In November 2017 Coventry wrote to Mr and Mrs M to tell them the interest rate, and 
therefore the monthly payments, on their mortgage was going up. The letter said In line with 
the terms and conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our 
variable mortgage rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base 
Rate and the costs involved in providing your mortgage. As a result the rate you pay on your 
mortgage is increasing to 1.85%.
A further letter was sent in August 2018 with broadly the same wording, this time the interest 
rate was increasing to 2.10%.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Coventry after the base rate reduction as they were unhappy 
that Coventry hadnt reduced their interest rate, instead it had kept the rate for the Flexx for 
Term product the same.
Coventry didnt uphold the complaint. It said in its final response letter of 18 April 2020 that it 
needed to consider the interests of its membership as a whole, and its priority had been to 
reduce interest rates for those borrowers who were on higher rates. It reminded 
Mr and Mrs M that there was no early repayment charge (ERC) so they could move to a 
different product  or lender  if they wanted to.
As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree they referred their complaint to this service. In their complaint 
to us they said, amongst others:
It is wrong for Coventry to say the mortgage rate isnt linked to the base rate. Over 
the time theyve had the mortgage it has always followed base rate.
Theres no explanation of how the interest rate is calculated which means the 
contract is tilted in favour of Coventry. They ask whether the contract can be 
considered valid.
Our investigator considered the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. She 
said, in summary:
Coventry had made Mr and Mrs M aware of the type of interest rate they were taking 
out.
The terms and conditions set out that the interest rate might change, and why, and 
she thought Coventry had exercised those terms fairly.
There were no obvious barriers to Mr and Mrs M either taking a new product with 
Coventry or moving their mortgage to a new lender if they felt the interest rate was no 
longer competitive.
The pandemic was an extraordinary situation that meant Coventry needed to offer 
support to borrowers that were struggling, and it had to move to running its 
operations remotely. She felt the substantial challenge provided by the pandemic led 
to changes in the way any lender would need to run its business.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators assessment. They said, in summary:
Coventry increased the rate in 2017 and 2018 in direct response to the base rate 
rises.
Coventry has failed to address their complaint that monetary transactions and 
changes cant be deemed fair unless a clear formula is provided for mathematically 
calculating a new rate of interest.
It is unfair that Coventry increased the interest rate previously, but then didnt 
decrease it in 2020.
While Coventry didnt pass on the full base rate reduction, what prevented it from 
passing on some of the benefit.
If theyd lost their jobs, would Coventry have reduced the rate then?
As they didnt agree with our investigators assessment, Mr and Mrs Ms complaint was 
passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at. For that reason I wont be answering 
each of Mr and Mrs Ms questions, nor will I be ordering Coventry to.
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing for Mr and Mrs M. Its the nature 
of what we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings 
are based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We 
look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, good 
industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, the lender acted 
fairly and reasonably.
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr and Mrs M entered into, and whether 
the nature of the product was fairly explained by Coventry in the paperwork at the time.
What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?
The mortgage offer provides the following descriptions of the product:
OFL48 - Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 1.85%, which is managed by Coventry 
Building Society and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of 
England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Transfer, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Society at a 
rate, currently 1.85%, which will be set independently of The Society's Standard Variable 
Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
From that we can see this is a variable rate product that isnt linked to either the standard 
variable rate or the base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage product.
Mr and Mrs M have said that the rate previously had increased and reduced in line with base 
rate changes. But that hasnt always been the case. Whilst Coventry had changed the 
products rate by the same differential the five previous times the base rate had changed, the 
three base rate changes before that hadnt been reflected with a matching differential 
change across the board.
I understand Mr and Mrs M believed the interest rate would likely follow base rate, and the 
base rate is one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate 
products. But Ive not seen any evidence that Coventry told Mr and Mrs M that their interest 
rate would always change in line with the base rate, and their mortgage offer clearly explains 
the interest rate is set independently of the base rate.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Coventry set out the details of the interest rate of 
the product clearly and unambiguously, explaining it wasnt linked to the base rate. Although Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M werent misled as to the nature of the interest rate of the product, 
I still need to decide if Coventry acted fairly.
Was it fair for Coventry to increase the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, and not reduce it in 
2020?
The Mortgage Conditions Issue J booklet records the general terms and conditions 
applicable to the mortgage. That says:
4.5 Unless the Offer states otherwise, we can change the applicable Interest Rate for any 
of the following reasons (which may relate to circumstances existing at the time or 
those which are expected to apply in the near future):
4.5.1 (i) to respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate, or mortgage or 
investment rates generally;
(ii) to respond to changes in the law or the decisions of a court or ombudsman;
(iii) to meet relevant regulatory requirements;
(iv) to respond to new (or changes to any) statements or codes of practice 
designed to enhance consumer protection;
(v) to respond to changes in the costs or risks incurred by us in providing the 
mortgage;
(vi) to respond to any increased cost or risk incurred by us as a result of any 
change of use of the Property (for example, if you let the Property, with or 
without our permission); or
(vii) for any other reason set out specifically in the Offer.
The increases in 2017 and 2018 were due to clause 4.5.1(i) and 4.5.1(v); that is, an increase 
in the base rate, and changes in the costs incurred by Coventry in respect of mortgage 
lending. But although the condition says the interest rate can change when base rate 
changes, it doesnt say it has to do so.
It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable 
indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
Coventrys costs increased in 2017 and 2018 when the base rate went up, and thus 
Coventry also increased the interest rate on this product by the same amount of percentage 
points. 
But it doesnt automatically follow that Coventrys costs decreased in March 2020 as the 
costs dont just relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage in 
isolation. The base rate decreased, but Coventry incurred additional costs across its 
mortgage function due to the pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment deferrals meaning 
mortgage payments werent being made when expected, needing to move to a remote way 
of working, and making its branch network Covid-secure, for example. Coventry didnt have the same level of increased costs when the base rate was reduced 
previously so theyre not comparable. Im satisfied Coventry has shown that the events of 
2020 were different to those of 2017 and 2018, and Im satisfied that Coventry has shown 
that its costs increased in 2020 even though base rate fell.
Coventry needed to make some decisions about the best way to assist those people that 
needed help the most; it didnt feel able to reduce all its variable rates in line with the base 
rate reductions as its costs had increased and it was an unprecedented time of uncertainty. 
Coventry made the decision to reduce the interest rates for those borrowers that were on a 
much higher variable rate than Mr and Mrs M (customers were paying 4.99% on the 
standard variable rate, compared to the 2.10% Mr and Mrs M were paying). That seems a 
fair decision for Coventry to have made, and it wasnt discriminatory against Mr and Mrs M. 
The product Mr and Mrs M have allows them the flexibility to switch to another interest rate 
product with Coventry at any time if they no longer felt the Flexx product offered value for 
money. Im satisfied that other interest rate products were available to Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage if they had wanted to switch to them and that there would have been no Early 
Repayment Charge (ERC) to pay or other contractual barrier that would have prevented this. 
They could also have shopped around and remortgaged to another lender, if they felt the 
interest rate products offered by Coventry werent competitive in the market. Mr and Mrs M 
dont have to apply for another product with Coventry or another lender, but if they dont do 
so then theyll remain on the 2.10% Flexx interest rate  which Coventry may or may not 
vary, in line with the terms and conditions, in the future. 
From my wider knowledge of the mortgage market, I consider that the interest rate even 
remaining at 2.10% is competitive bearing in mind the level of flexibility the product offers 
and the fact this is an Offset mortgage product. However, if Mr and Mrs M dont agree they 
have the option to remortgage to another lender and the only cost currently of ending this 
Coventry mortgage is a £125 mortgage exit fee (as set out in their mortgage offer). 
Alternatively that fee wouldnt be charged if they choose to simply change to a new product 
with Coventry instead. 
Coventry tells me the process to take out a new product is simple, and can be arranged to 
make it easy for existing customers to get access to new interest rate products. So Im 
satisfied there were no practical or contractual barriers preventing Mr and Mrs M from 
coming out of this mortgage product if they wanted to look for another interest rate either 
with Coventry or elsewhere. It seems Mr and Mrs M could have taken out another product, 
but they chose not to.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ms frustration that their mortgage interest rate wasnt 
reduced, Im satisfied Coventry didnt act unfairly when it increased the interest rate in 2017 
and 2018, but then didnt reduce the interest rate in line with the base rate reductions in 
2020.
Mr and Mrs M have said that Coventry has failed to address their complaint that monetary 
transactions and changes cant be deemed fair unless a clear formula is provided for 
mathematically calculating a new rate of interest. They also asked, if theyd lost their jobs, 
whether Coventry would have reduced their rate.
Ill deal with the second point first. We can only consider what actually happened, not 
hypothetical situations. Coventry has a regulatory responsibility to treat customers in 
financial difficulties fairly, and if Mr and Mrs M found themselves unable to meet their full 
monthly mortgage payments then theyd need to make contact with Coventry to discuss the 
options that are available. Coventry would need information from Mr and Mrs M, and once it had that it could consider the best course of action. Whether that would result in a lower 
interest rate isnt something I can comment on here as were talking about a hypothetical 
financial difficulties process that Mr and Mrs M havent entered into.
In terms of whether this contract is fair and valid because Coventry hasnt set out a clear 
formula for how it calculates changes in interest rate then that is a legal and/or regulatory 
matter. The mortgage contract was set out in a format approved by the regulator. If 
Mr and Mrs M feel all variable rate mortgage products (as well as all mortgages where the 
mortgage moves to a variable rate after a preferential interest rate ends) must have a 
formula set out to explain how the lender will decide on any rate changes, then that is 
something theyll need to raise with the regulator themselves, bearing in mind that will affect 
the vast majority of mortgage contracts. I can only consider this complaint against the 
regulations that were in place at the time, and there was nothing in those regulations to say 
that a lender must set such a formula out in the mortgage contract.
All Im considering here is this individual complaint about Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage and 
whether Coventry acted fairly in 2020 when it didnt pass on the base rate cuts. Coventry 
has sent us information in confidence which shows why the Flexx interest rate wasnt 
reduced in 2020. Were unable to disclose that information to Mr and Mrs M as it is 
commercially sensitive, but Ive considered the information very carefully and Im satisfied 
that Coventrys decision wasnt unfair.
Having considered everything, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this complaint, 
however much Mr and Mrs M may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman