DRN-1033008
The complaint
Mr M complains that MYJAR Limited was irresponsible to lend him money. Mr M is 
concerned about the impact taking out loans from MYJAR Limited has had on his financial 
situation and credit score.
Mr M wants MYJAR to refund money to him.
What happened
Mr M took out two instalment loans with MYJAR between October and December 2016. A 
summary of Mr Ms lending is set out below:
Loan Date of loan Date repaid Instalments Amount Maximum monthly 
Repayment
1 18/10/2016 14/12/2016 6 £400 £123
2 16/12/2016 01/05/2017 6 £550 £167
 
The adjudicator didn't recommend that Mr M's complaint be upheld. He thought that MYJAR 
carried out adequate checks before agreeing to lend each time. And based on the 
information MYJAR held about Mr M, the adjudicator thought that it was reasonable to lend.
Mr M is unhappy with the adjudicator's recommendation. He says he was using the loans for 
everyday living expenses. Mr M says that MYJAR shouldn't have let him take out loan two 
as he'd repaid loan one early so that he could borrow more money. 
Mr M has sent us bank statements to show that he was borrowing from other lenders at the 
time and was always up to his overdraft limit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator's recommendation.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer Credit Source Book defines sustainable as 
being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
MYJAR has given us evidence that it asked Mr M to estimate how much he was spending 
each month on housing, credit and other expenses. MYJAR also carried out credit checks 
before both loans.
It was early on in Mr M's lending history and the maximum repayment on both loans 
represented a fairly modest proportion of his declared monthly income of £1,500. And 
MYJAR's credit checks didn't reveal anything of concern. So I'm satisfied that MYJAR's 
checks were proportionate.
I consider it was reasonable of MYJAR to have a degree of confidence that Mr M had given 
it accurate financial information. I wouldn't have expected MYJAR to go as far as trying to 
independently verify the financial information that Mr M gave by asking to see bank 
statements for example. This means that even though Mr M's financial situation was worse 
than he disclosed to MYJAR, I don't find that what I consider to have been proportionate 
checks would've revealed this.
Although I appreciate Mr M's comment about taking out loan two after repaying loan one 
early, I don't think that this in itself means that MYJAR should have carried out more checks 
than it did. Particularly as the credit check that MYJAR carried out shortly before agreeing 
loan two, didn't show any new accounts having been opened in the previous three months. 
So MYJAR wasn't on notice that Mr M had been borrowing elsewhere to keep up with his 
repayments.I'm sorry that my decision is likely to disappoint Mr M but I don't require MYJAR to refund 
any money or amend his credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman