DRN-1058691
 
The complaint
 Mr H complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Card, 
applied a default marker to his credit file despite him making payments to his card account.  
What happened
Mr H has had an Argos Card Account since 2014. In February 2019 Mr H complained to 
Argos that it had applied a default marker to his credit file on 21 November 2018 despite his 
having set up a payment plan with A, a collections agency, and having made payments on 
29 October and 6 December. He said he could provide proof of payment. 
In its final response Argos did not uphold Mr H's complaint. It said the default had been 
registered correctly due to the payment requirements not being met. It said it could not be 
removed and will remain on Mr H's credit file for six years. 
Mr H was not happy with the final response so brought his complaint to this service. He said 
he was happy to pay A in order to clear the outstanding balance. He also explained that he 
had taken on too much as he had spent the last three years looking after his father's affairs, 
and he was a good person in terms of repaying credit. He said that a default for such a small 
amount would have a significant impact on his life, threatening his house/mortgage, and his 
ability to take out a further loan to pay the remaining balance on his house. 
The investigator was satisfied that Argos had acted fairly and that Mr H had been given 
sufficient notice to avoid the default happening. Mr H remained unhappy and asked for a 
final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H but having done so, I won't be asking Argos to do anything further. 
I've looked at the terms and conditions of Mr H's account along with statements and letters 
sent to Mr H  between August and November 2018. The address of this correspondence is 
the same address we have on file for Mr H.  So I'm satisfied they were sent to the correct 
address. Mr H hasn't said that he hasn't received these documents. 
Argos sent Mr H a statement dated 12 August 2018. The balance at the time was £1,000.78. 
The minimum payment was £11.23 and payment was due by 10 September. 
On the statement dated 12 September I note the balance was £1,069.50. There was no 
payment received to the account. The balance included a late payment fee. Mr H used his 
card in August. The statement notes that the account is in arrears of £11.23 and the 
minimum payment due is £25.05 by 10 October. 
Argos sent an immediate payment request letter on 19 September for £11.23. Argos sent Mr H a 'Failure to Act Now' letter on 4 October concerning account arrears. It 
said "despite several requests you have failed to bring your account up to date". It requested 
payment of £11.23. 
On the statement dated 12 October the balance was £1,090.12 with two consecutive 
payments missed. The statement requested £36.28 immediately to avoid further charges 
along with a minimum payment of £25.71 by 10 November. 
Argos sent a default notice on 24 October 2018 which required Mr H to pay the arrears on 
the account which at the time was £36.28. The Default Notice requested Mr H to pay the 
arrears of £36.28 within 14 days, to prevent further enforcement action being taken.
A payment of £30.00 was received by Argos on 29 October 2018 but this was not enough 
to clear the arrears on Mr H's account. So a Default was registered on his Credit File on 21 
November 2018.
I can see that Mr H made an additional payment of £40 on 5 December, but this was after 
the default had been registered on the account. 
Argos sent me a record of calls and text messages sent to Mr H. Between 17 September 
and 18 October it tried to contact him 13 times by phone without success and sent two text 
messages requesting him to call. It tried to contact him by phone a further 10 times prior to 
the default being recorded. 
I'm satisfied that Argos acted fairly and reasonably by trying to contact Mr H prior to 
registering the default in order to help him. 
Mr H contacted Argos on 26 February 2018 concerning a declined direct debit. Argos 
changed the due date to allow time for the payment to be received. But there is no record of 
Mr H having difficulty paying generally or informing Argos of any financial difficulty. 
Mr H has said this default has affected his credit score and ability to get further credit to pay 
the remaining sum on his house. He has also said he's had to manage his father's affairs 
and he may have taken on too much.  I'm very sorry to hear about this. 
But I'm satisfied Argos applied the default appropriately and in line with its terms and 
conditions, so I won't be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2020.
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman