DRN-3646005
The complaint
Mr N complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly lent to 
him on multiple occasions.
What happened
Everyday Loans approved Mr N for the following loans:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
repayments 
(approx.)
One September 2014 £1,500 13 months £190
Two April 2015 £3,500 36 months £210
Three May 2016 £4,500 24 months £390
Four March 2018 £6,150.40 36 months £390
There was also a fifth loan taken out after loan four. However this loan was taken in joint 
names and as such will be considered under a separate complaint reference.
Mr N says all of the above loans were irresponsibly lent to him. He says he was experiencing 
financial hardship; and that he struggled to make the necessary repayments. Mr N says he 
had to borrow from friends and family to make repayments. He says he also gambled to try 
to make repayments. Mr N says that Everyday Loans ought to have known he could not 
afford the repayments and not lent to him.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended the complaint be upheld in part. 
She set out her findings as such:
Proportionate checks had been carried out for all four loans;
Everyday Loans made fair lending decisions, based on what was gathered from its 
checks, for loans one and two;
Loans three and four had not been lent responsibly as the information gathered 
demonstrated that these loans were increasing Mr Ns overall level of debt in a way 
that was harmful and unsustainable.
Mr N agreed with our investigators assessment. Everyday Loans did not agree and asked 
for an ombudsmans review. Everyday Loans maintained that it lent loans three and four 
responsibly. It says that whilst the overall level of indebtedness increased it was not harmful; 
and was to be expected as Mr N was consolidating his existing debts. Everyday Loans 
maintained the checks it completed demonstrated that Mr N could sustainably afford the 
repayments for both loans three and four.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Mr N and Everyday Loans are aware of our services approach to irresponsible and 
unaffordable lending complaints; so for the sake of conciseness I wont set out the detail 
here. And as the parties agree with the findings of the investigator on loans one and two and 
that Everyday Loans gathered sufficient information before agreeing to loans three and four,  
Ive limited my decision here to whether Everyday Loans ought to have realised if it was 
increasing Mr Ns overall indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or harmful; and if it 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr N in any other way.
Loan three
Loan three was taken out in May 2016; a little over a year after loan two and was for a 
capital amount of £4,500. The term for this loan decreased to 24 months resulting in the 
monthly payments increasing from around £210 to approximately £390. The proceeds of this 
loan went in part to settle Mr Ns existing loan (loan two) with Everyday Loans.
Ive already stated that the parties are in agreement that Everyday Loans gathered sufficient 
information before providing this loan. But even though this is the case, Everyday Loans still 
needed to ensure that it was lending responsibly. This includes more than just ensuring the 
loan was affordable to Mr N on a pounds and pence basis. And having reviewed the 
information that Everyday Loans had at the time; Im not persuaded it did lend responsibly. 
This is because Im persuaded that it was increasing Mr Ns overall level of indebtedness in 
a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
I say this because I note that the majority of the proceeds of loan three went to settling the 
outstanding balance on loan two. Of the £4,500 being advanced; Mr N only received 
approximately £1,600  meaning around £2,900 went to settle loan two. Importantly; when 
looking at the terms of loan two compared to that of loan three; Im not persuaded this 
lending decision was fair and reasonable. Outside of the payments increasing; I note that 
loan two had an APR of 77%. And whilst this had run for some time before loan three was 
advanced; I note loan threes APR was 114.7%
Considering the majority of the proceeds went to settle the previous loan; Im not satisfied 
that it was fair and reasonable for Everyday Loans to roll the outstanding balance on loan 
two into loan three in this way. As a result of this transaction Mr N was being moved from a 
loan schedule where more of his payment was going to reduce the capital amount to one 
where the vast majority of his payment, at least in the early stages, would be going towards 
repaying interest at a significantly higher interest rate. As this is the case, I dont think that it 
was fair and reasonable for Everyday Loans to act in this way and Im satisfied that doing so 
meant that Everyday Loans was increasing Mr Ns indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable and harmful to him. And on that basis Everyday Loans acted unfairly when 
providing this loan.
  
Loan fourLoan four was taken out in March 2018 for a capital amount of £6,150.40. Everyday Loans 
says this loan went in part to settle loan three and it gave Mr N a further £5,000 in capital. 
The stated purpose of the loan was debt consolidation and the monthly repayments 
remained largely the same. 
Im satisfied that the evidence Everyday Loans gathered before providing this loan showed 
that further lending would not be sustainable for Mr N; and by doing so (similar to loan three) 
Everyday Loans had acted unreasonably.
The amount of credit Mr N was receiving was not sufficient to consolidate all of his debts; 
and importantly left his highest debt (and likely one of his highest costing loans  the 
guarantor loan) outstanding. Everyday Loans also says it was consolidating down loan three; 
which considering was unfairly lent, also only had a short period of time remaining to pay off. 
So Im not satisfied that there was an overall benefit to Mr N in taking this loan.
Im satisfied therefore that loan four also increased Mr Ns indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. As such it should not have been lent.
Putting things right
Mr N has lost out financially as a result of Everyday Loans actions. He has had to pay 
additional interest and charges. As such Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
In order to do so, I require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to:
Refund the interest and charges that Mr N has paid in relation to loans three and 
four;
This amount should be refunded along with 8% simple interested (calculated from the 
date the payments were made until the date of settlement)*
To remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ns credit file in relation to loan 
three and four.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman