DRN-4439104
The complaint
Miss P complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  failed to prevent 
transactions from leaving an account she holds jointly with another person.
What happened
Miss P explained that she was in a relationship with a person who Ill refer to as M. 
M isnt part of this complaint.
Miss P and M opened a joint account with Nationwide whilst they both also held individual 
accounts with Nationwide. Miss P later said M told her it was an account for the house and 
the children and she wasnt aware it was a joint account (that gave M authority to use).
Miss P noticed several large transactions from the account that she didnt make herself and 
raised this with Nationwide. She experienced a difficult conversation with one call handler 
who she says was rude and unhelpful. Miss P was told that as M was a joint account holder, 
he had authority to make transactions himself.
Miss P was unhappy with her treatment and that M had been allowed to make payments 
from the account without her knowledge. She made a complaint to Nationwide about the 
matter, also raising an issue with her online banking access.
Nationwide looked into Miss Ps complaint but didnt change their position regarding the 
payment made by M. They did recognise that Miss P had experienced poor treatment on 
one of her calls and made a payment of £40 to her as compensation.
Miss P remained unhappy with the outcome and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators who asked both parties for information about the complaint. 
Miss P explained what had happened and was unhappy that she wasnt informed or asked 
about the transfers made by M. She said that she was the victim of a romance scam, 
although she confirmed shed lived with M and he was the father of her children. She 
described a difficult relationship with M and didnt believe that he had authority to use the 
account.
Miss P said that she was persuaded to open the account by M and she had no idea it was a 
joint account. She added that B didnt tell her it was jointly held and due to medical 
complications at the time, was unable to comprehend what was happening with the account.
Miss P said that shed had ongoing problems logging into her account which Nationwide had 
failed to sort out. Miss P also remarked that shed had difficulty closing the account.
Nationwide provided details of the account showing it was jointly held with M and they both 
had authority to use the account as they wished (meaning that each had the authority to use 
the funds in the account without the others permission). Technical data showed that Miss P 
had access to her account apart from on one day when it was blocked.
After reviewing the information, Miss Ps complaint wasnt upheld, the investigator 
commented that:
The payments were authorised by a joint account holder.
The terms of the account allowed each account holder to utilise those funds.
There was little risk for Nationwide to identify (about the disputed transactions) due to 
the circumstances of the account transfer (an internal account transfer) from an 
authorised user of the account.
There was no evidence of a romance scam due to the personal circumstances of the 
joint account holders.
The £40 payment for the service received by Miss P was fair.
Miss Ps online banking service was available apart from one day.
Miss P disagreed with the investigators outcome and continued to argue that she should 
have been notified of the payments and they were fraudulent. Miss P described how the 
situation has caused her health to decline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Miss Ps health has declined throughout the difficult circumstances 
shes found herself dealing with. Shes argued here that M, who was a joint account holder 
wasnt allowed to make transactions himself. Miss P believes that those transfers made by M 
are unauthorised.
Ive had to take into account that the joint account holder (M) isnt part of this complaint, so 
to a degree, his views are unrepresented. Miss P has made certain comments surrounding 
the relationship which indicate it was, at times, difficult. Shes essentially said she was duped 
into opening the account and didnt realise it was jointly held. She believed it was an account 
for house expenses and future costs for the children.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Nationwide can hold the account holders liable for the disputed 
payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that they made them or 
authorised them. 
Nationwide can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove M authorised the 
transactions, but Nationwide cannot say that the use of internet banking conclusively proves 
that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Nationwide can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit the joint account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to the joint account holders. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both 
parties to determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold them responsible for the 
disputed transactions or not.
It's apparent from the audit information held by Nationwide that Miss P and M operated a joint account together for a while. I dont think its likely that Miss P was unaware of the joint 
holdings of the account as the statements are titled in both their names.
Its also clear that the transactions carried out by M were done using the appropriate 
payment information given to him by Nationwide after the account was opened. The specific 
conditions on this account were to provide authority to each person without needing the 
other to authorise any payments. That meant the joint account holders each had authority to 
use the account as they see fit. 
As the payments were made by M, theyre considered authorised for the purposes of this 
complaint. There was no requirement for Nationwide to contact Miss P about them before 
they carried out the instruction to transfer the funds to an account nominated by M. Even if 
Nationwide thought the payments were unusual, they would have likely asked M about them 
himself, rather than Miss P because he was the authorised user making the payments. 
I understand Miss P has said the relationship was, at times, difficult. Whilst I accept her 
comments here, I dont think the operation of the account, or the information held by 
Nationwide at the time, could have given them cause to intervene. 
I realise this will be difficult for Miss P to accept, but in respect of the transfers made from 
the joint account, Nationwide were following an instruction from a legitimate account holder 
and as such, the payments were authorised. 
What that means for Miss Ps substantive complaint is that I wont be upholding it. Ive also 
considered the difficult call she experienced and Nationwides response to that. I dont think 
theres any doubt that the way the call was handled led to Miss P feeling upset and stressed. 
Nationwide also concluded this and their payment of £40 to recognise the poor service was, 
I think, both a fair and reasonable response from them. 
My final decision
My final decision here is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman