DRN-2882515
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a 
claim for a cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV.   
Mr and Mrs B were due to travel abroad in August 2020. However, shortly before Mr and Mrs 
Bs trip, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office) advised against all non-essential travel to their intended 
destination due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs B made a claim under their policy with URV for the cost of their flights and 
accommodation, which had been booked separately. URV said their claim wasnt covered, 
as the reason for the cancellation of the trip didnt fall within one of the specific reasons set 
out under their policy. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Initially, he said he didnt think the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs claim were covered under the terms and conditions of their 
policy with URV. However, upon further review, our investigator said he thought it would be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances for URV to treat Mr and Mrs Bs claim as covered 
under the cancellation section of their policy and to assess the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions. 
URV didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint.
 
The policy documentation
Our investigator said the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which 
summarises the cover available, didnt refer to FCDO advice. This is incorrect. On page 2, 
the IPID says:
Where am I covered?
You can select the area of cover that is most appropriate for your travel plans. Cover 
will not apply if you travel outside the area that you have chosen. The area you have 
chosen will be shown on your policy schedule. 
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel
The policy terms and conditions, on the first page, under the heading criteria for purchase 
say: 
This insurance will only be valid if, at the time you bought the policy, everyone 
named on the insurance schedule/premium receipt: 
Are not travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise 
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time 
of your departure.
Page 7 of the policy set outs the cover available if the policyholder is unable to go on their 
trip. The terms and conditions say URV will pay certain costs if:
You had to cancel your trip because the following unexpectedly happened before 
you left home:
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the person 
you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces had your leave orders 
cancelled.
Mr and Mrs B cancelled their trip because the FCDO advised against non-essential travel to 
the destination they were due to visit. Thats not something that is covered under the terms 
and conditions of the cancellation section of their policy, as its not a specific or listed insured 
event. So, their claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their insurance policy. 
However, I have an overriding remit to make a decision based on what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive taken into account the relevant law and industry 
guidelines and I dont think a strict application of the policy terms and conditions leads to a 
fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case.
The criteria for purchase that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr and Mrs B had travelled 
abroad on their planned trip, they wouldnt have been following FCDO advice. So, they 
wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms and conditions at all. But, under the terms 
and conditions of their policy, cancellation of a trip due to changes to FCDO guidance also 
isnt covered. This means Mr and Mrs B were left in a situation where they had no cover if 
they travelled, but also had no cover if they cancelled their trip. I dont think this was made 
sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs B.   
Mr and Mrs B would need to have read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the 
combined effect of the policy terms were made sufficiently clear to them. 
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and Mrs B and 
URV. I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have purchased this policy if they had realised 
there was no cover if FCDO guidance changed after they bought the policy. And, Im 
satisfied that travel insurance policies which did cover cancellation claims arising from 
changes to FCDO advice were widely available elsewhere on the market at the time Mr and 
Mrs B bought their policy in February 2020. So, I think its likely Mr and Mrs B would have 
been able to buy alternative insurance which did cover the circumstances they ultimately 
found themselves in. 
So, overall, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for URV to treat Mr 
and Mrs Bs claim as covered under the cancellation section of their policy.
Ive considered the submissions URV made in response to our investigators 
recommendations  including its comments about Mr and Mrs Bs intention and/or ability to 
travel regardless of the FCDO advice in force at the time - but these dont change my 
decision.   
Putting things right
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to treat Mr and Mrs Bs claim as covered under the 
cancellation section of their policy. Union Reiseversicherung AG should therefore assess the 
claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and I direct it 
to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman