DRN-4281722
The complaint
Mr H has complained that he wasnt provided with a courtesy car when he made a claim. Mr 
H bought a car insurance policy with the insurer Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited.
Mr H says the policy was mis-sold to him. 
All reference to the insurer Mulsanne in my decision includes its agents.
Mr H is being represented by D in his complaint. Ive referred to Mr H as the complainant in 
my decision. 
What happened
Mr H bought a car insurance policy with Mulsanne. He made a claim in November 2021 as 
his car was involved in an incident. 
Mr Hs car was deemed a write off and Mulsanne settled the claim as a total loss. Mr H 
complained that he hadnt been provided with a courtesy car. 
In February 2022 Mulsanne accepted it had caused a delay in arranging for Mr Hs car to be 
inspected. It explained that the first approved repairer (AR) wasnt able to offer a courtesy 
car in the event Mr Hs car was repairable. This was because of Mr Hs young age as the AR 
had restrictions on their business insurance. This led to a delay of around two weeks. Mr Hs 
car was inspected at another approved repairer which resulted in the decision to settle the 
claim as a total loss. 
As Mr Hs policy doesnt provide provision for a courtesy car where the car is deemed a total 
loss, Mulsanne didnt uphold this part of the complaint. But for the delay caused in having his 
car inspected by an AR, it offered Mr H £100 compensation. 
Mr H remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator didnt think 
Mulsanne had acted unreasonably. 
Mr H doesnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. In summary Mr H says the policy 
was mis-sold because an AR couldnt offer him a courtesy car due to his age - and this 
wasnt set out under the policy terms. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered this complaint against the insurer of the policy as it sets out the terms and 
conditions - and is responsible for any claims made under the policy. Mr H says those terms 
meant he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car because of his age - so he says the policy with 
Mulsanne wasnt one he would have bought if he had known this. 
Mr H says he should have been provided with a courtesy car in the time between making his 
claim and Mulsanne arranging a date for his car to be inspected. 
However, Mr Hs policy clearly explains the circumstances where the insurer will not provide 
a courtesy car. It says it will not provide one where a car is written off (a total loss). A 
courtesy car is available for the duration of repairs: this isnt an unusual policy term. 
From the timeline, Mr H reported the incident on 22 November 2021. On 6 December 2021 
Mr Hs car was booked in with an AR that could provide a courtesy car (if repairable) for 13 
December 2021. The AR was closed over the Christmas period from 24 December 2021 to 4 
January 2022. The total loss report was received by the insurers agent on 5 January 2022 
and the claim was settled.
I dont agree that Mr Hs policy was mis-sold to him because a courtesy car couldnt be 
provided due to his age. Mulsanne explained that one of its approved repairers wasnt able 
to - had Mr H been entitled to one. But it was able to find another repairer that would have 
been able to provide a courtesy car to Mr H. This however caused a delay. In any event the 
outcome meant Mr H would never have been entitled to a courtesy car as his car was 
deemed a total loss. 
Theres no dispute that there was a delay in appointing an AR to inspect Mr Hs car. Some of 
the delay was outside the control of the insurers agent. I think the compensation offered by 
Mulsanne of £100 for the inconvenience caused by the delay is reasonable in this case. 
It isnt an unusual condition under most motor insurance policies for a courtesy car to be 
available for the duration of repairs, but not when a car is written off or stolen. Some insurers 
offer additional cover for a premium where a courtesy car is immediately available for a 
limited period even if a car is deemed a write off or stolen. I havent seen any evidence that 
Mr H had such additional cover. 
So I think Mulsanne treated Mr H fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  
My final decision
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited has made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint 
for the delay caused and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited should pay £100 to Mr H if it 
hasnt already done so.
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman