 Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out to cover a 
credit card in 2003. Mr H says the PPI was mis-sold to him.
Although the PPI was sold by another business, St Andrews Insurance plc has taken 
responsibility for the sale. Ill therefore refer to St Andrews in my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, St Andrews had to make it clear to Mr H that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr H says it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.
St Andrews records show the PPI was taken out around three months after the credit card. 
So I dont think Mr H can reasonably have thought he had to have the PPI in order to get the 
card.
St Andrews also says the PPI was sold over the phone. And its sent us a copy of the sales 
script it says wouldve been used at the time. This directed the advisor to ask the customer if 
they were happy to go ahead with the PPI.
Based on the evidence I have, and what I understand about St Andrews sales practices at 
the time, I think its likely the call with Mr H largely followed the script. And so I think 
St Andrews made it clear to Mr H that he had a choice about the PPI. And that he chose to 
take it, knowing he didnt have to.
St Andrews says it recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it had to check that it was right for 
him. And, based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been 
entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant he didnt need to rely on any savings he had 
to make his repayments if he wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for him, St Andrews had to give Mr H clear information 
about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have been 
DRN-1051326useful for Mr H if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put Mr H off taking it out.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman