DRN-3416086
The complaint
Mr C complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer two of his Personal Pensions (PP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr C is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by him.
What happened
In 2014, after first speaking to Mr C, Portal advised him to transfer two PPs to a SIPP. At the 
time Mr C was aged 55 and living with his wife. And the fact-find, dated 17 January 2014, 
indicated he was employed earning £45,000 per year, with just under £20,000 in savings. He 
told Portal he lived in a property he owned worth around £220,000, with an outstanding 
mortgage of £138,000. It said he had outstanding credit card balance totalling around 
£2,000, that he was repaying at £150 per month. And that he had a household disposable 
income of around £1,134 per month. The suitability report notes Mr C had two PPs with 
transfer values of £3,776 and £15,716. And a pension that pays him an income of around 
£395 per month after tax, as well as a pension with his current employer. 
Portal carried out a risk-profiling exercise and determined Mr C had a moderately 
adventurous attitude to risk (ATR). It wrote to Mr C on 21 January 2014 recommending he 
transfer his PPs into a SIPP. And it recommended he invest some of it in the following:
Lakeview  13.29%
Real Estate USA  18.45%
Strategic Residential  13.29%
Tambaba  13.29%
Shortly after, the SIPP was established, and the value of Mr Cs PPs was transferred. And, 
in 2015, Mr C approached Portal again to discuss taking his entire fund. 
In 2020, Mr C complained to Portal that the advice was unsuitable, as advising him to invest 
in high risk funds was inconsistent with his experience. And that he was given insufficient 
information about the ongoing charges and their effect on investment growth. 
In response, Portal said Mr C had made his complaint too late for our Service to consider it. 
Unhappy with this, Mr C brought his complaint to us. And we decided we could consider his 
complaint, as it had been made in time. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and said she didnt think the pension 
switch was suitable in light of the likely higher charges and because Mr C didnt need to 
raise capital due to the amount of disposable income he had. She also didnt think that 
advising Mr C to invest in high risk funds was appropriate in light of his circumstances and 
because she felt his attitude to risk was cautious, with him only wanting to take a small risk. 
She also said Portal should pay Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Portal didnt agree. It said, in summary, that Mr C wanted to access tax free cash (TFC) and 
that he wasnt reliant on these two PPs in retirement. It said the SIPP was low cost and 
competitive at the time, giving Mr C flexibility.
So Mr Cs complaints been referred to me for a decision. I let the parties know I was minded 
to uphold Mr Cs complaint, but for different reasons to our Investigator. I said that while I 
dont think Portals pension switching advice was unsuitable in light of Mr Cs objective of 
accessing TFC, I think the advice it gave him to make high risk investments was unsuitable. 
While Portal didnt respond, Mr C responded saying, in summary, that Portal should have 
recommended a Personal Pension Drawdown instead of a SIPP. He said this would have 
allowed him to invest in line with his risk profile, but for lower management and running 
charges. And that Portal would have received a commission from the investments it 
recommended, which it wasnt required to disclose due to the unregulated nature of these. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Portal said Mr Cs complaint was brought to our Service too late for us to consider it. I dont 
intend to revisit that, given an Ombudsman has already given a decision explaining why hes 
satisfied Mr C brought this complaint in time and that its one I can consider. And, having 
considered all the information, I think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. 
Ive taken account of relevant laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and what I consider to be relevant industry practice at the relevant time. These 
include the overarching Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill, 
care and diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular 
relevance here.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules 
regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R required Portal to 
take reasonable steps to ensure a personal recommendation was suitable for Mr C. It had to 
obtain information as to Mr Cs knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment), his financial situation and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R required Portal to gather sufficient information from Mr C to ensure the 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the risks involved and had the 
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
And COBS 2.1.1R required Portal to act, honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client."
In 2009 the regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), also published a checklist for 
pension switching. And one of the key issues it thought should be focussed on was whether 
the consumer had been switched to a pension thats more expensive than their existing 
one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason. 
I recognise Mr Cs SIPP wasnt particularly expensive  it had an initial AMC of 0.5%. And 
that its possible this was lower than his existing schemes. But, as well as the 5% initial fee 
charged by Portal, there would also be other product or fund charges. Some of these could 
offset the charges of the existing plans. But its clear there would be a cost to switching, 
which Portal recognised in the suitability report when it said:Overall, this strategy may cost more than your existing arrangement. Whilst the intention is 
that this will be more than compensated for by the increased growth of your pension fund 
this cannot be guaranteed.
While switching his PPs might have been more costly to Mr C overall, I dont think the advice 
to do so was unsuitable in light his objective of accessing TFC. The fact find notes this was 
his main objective, so that he could go on holiday and repay some finance.
I recognise Mr C had around £20,000 in savings and over £1,000 disposable income per 
month, but I think its likely Portal had a conversation with him about using this instead of 
switching his PPs to access TFC. This is because the fact find says Mr C acknowledged he 
had savings and a healthy disposable income but still wanted TFC for the above reasons. 
And that he wanted to keep his savings separate and for emergencies. 
So I think Mr C knew he had alternative means to fund his holiday and repay his finance, but 
still wanted to switch to access TFC to do so. This is seemingly because, as also set out in 
the fact find, Mr C wasnt dependent on these PPs for an income in retirement. Mr C hasnt 
disputed that he has other pensions which are his main retirement provision, including a 
workplace pension his employer was still contributing to at the time, as well as a pension 
thats already paying him a monthly income.
In light of this, I think Mr Cs objective of switching his two PPs to access TFC was a genuine 
one. And I dont think it would have been possible for him to get this through his current PP 
at the time, without also taking his retirement income. 
While Portals recommendation to switch might not have been unsuitable in that case, that 
doesnt mean its advice was suitable overall. And I dont currently think it was given the 
investments it recommended Mr C invest in within his SIPP. 
I think Mr C was a cautious, rather than a moderately adventurous risk, investor. While these 
PPs werent his main retirement provision and he had 11 years until his intended retirement 
age, I still dont think he was willing to take more than a small risk with his fund. I say this 
because it appears he was a standard retail investor, with no investment experience. And 
while the risk questionnaire said, for example, that he was willing to take substantial risk to 
earn similar rewards, it also said hed be described as a cautious person, who looks for 
safer investments even if this means lower returns and who prefers bank deposits to riskier 
investments. In light of this, I dont think Portals assessment was correct  I think a fairer 
assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk in the circumstances was cautious.
Yet based on Portals advice, a significant part of the funds in Mr Cs SIPP was invested in 
UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant here, when it said that as well 
as these only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally sophisticated, high 
net worth investors), for example, even when a customer was deemed eligible for the 
promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a clients exposure to these investments 
to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. I dont think UCIS was suitable for Mr C at all, and 
certainly not in the proportion invested, given theres nothing to indicate he had the requisite 
knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these types of 
investments. 
While I can see Mr C was made aware some of the investments were illiquid at the time of 
the advice, I think he went ahead because he trusted Portals advice. And had it 
recommended he invest in mainstream, regulated funds, which I think would have been 
suitable advice, I think hed have done so for that same reason.In summary, I currently think the investments Portal recommended were unsuitable, given 
these were likely to lead to Mr C being exposed to far more risk than appropriate in the 
circumstances. Instead, I think suitable advice would have been for him to invest in regulated 
mainstream funds. Had Portal given suitable advice, I think Mr Cs likely to have invested in 
that way.
Therefore, I think a fair and reasonable way to compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice is 
to use a benchmark based on an investment strategy in line with his circumstances and 
attitude to risk. 
Mr C says Portal should have recommended a personal pension drawdown product to him 
instead of a SIPP, as he could have invested in line with his risk profile and experienced 
lower charges that way. But I dont think the SIPP recommended here was expensive  the 
AMC was lower than the average AMC for a product with these features. And in any event, I 
think the redress Im recommending fairly compensates Mr C, as it gives him the return he 
ought to have achieved when bearing in mind his circumstances and risk profile, while also 
taking into account that he would have paid a certain level of ongoing charges. 
This matter will also have caused Mr C distress, so Portal should pay him £300 
compensation. I think this is a fair amount to make up for this in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr C back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for Portals unsuitable advice. 
I think Mr C would have invested differently. It isnt possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Cs 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with the benchmark shown below. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
 
Portal should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
 
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
 
Pay to Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable 
advice, which has led to a loss.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still existsfor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr C provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Given theres evidence Mr C would have withdrawn his whole pension in 2015 if he could 
have, the SIPP only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mr C can discuss with the SIPP provider directly. But 
I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr C an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Cs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr C would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr C could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial 
Service LLP should pay the amount calculated at set out above. It should provide details of 
its calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman