DRN-1952472
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1999 when she applied for a 
credit card from M&S Bank.
 
What happened
Mrs S complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 1999. She says she didnt 
need PPI and wouldnt have chosen to take it. So she concludes it was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs S disagreed 
with our adjudicators view and asked for the whole matter to be looked at again.
Allianz has accepted responsibility for looking at this complaint on behalf of M&S 
Bank. So, for ease, I will refer to Allianz Insurance as the PPI seller.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. I know this will 
be a disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Allianz Insurance made it clear the policy was an optional product. 
Allianz Insurance produced a sample of the credit card application form which it says Mrs S 
would have used at the time of the sale. I can see there was a separate section of the form 
dealing with PPI. I can see that a consumer could write their name in the box to choose PPI 
to be added to their credit account. So I can reasonably assume they could also have left 
the box empty to decline PPI. 
I think there was probably an active selection like this for PPI on Mrs Ss credit card 
application which means Allianz Insurance probably made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to 
take out the PPI and yet she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may 
not be able to remember this.
The policy was not recommended so Allianz Insurance did not have to make sure the 
policy was right for Mrs S  she would have to do that for herself. But Allianz Insurance did 
have to make sure she had enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so 
that she could make that assessment. So I looked at Mrs Ss financial circumstances at the 
time of the sale to see if she would have had any benefit from the policy.
She told us she had good employee benefits. But I think the PPI could have given her cover 
for longer than and in addition to her employee benefits, so I think it could have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. 
Mrs S said she could rely on her husband to pay for her credit card if she couldnt afford 
the repayments. I understand the point she is making. But there was no guarantee she 
could rely on this help at some unknown point in the future. So I still think she could get a 
benefit from the policy.
 
Its possible the information about the cost and benefits given to Mrs S about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. However, I have already decided she chose to take it out, 
so it looks like she wanted this type of cover at an affordable price. And I think the PPI could 
have been useful if she wasnt able to work or had lost her job. So even if she had been 
given more detailed information about the cost and benefits, I dont think it would have put 
her off from buying the PPI.
Allianz Insurance should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the 
exclusions). I dont know how it did this, but it does not appear that Mrs S was affected 
by the main exclusions. So - even if shed been given a full list of them - I dont think it 
would have put her off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional, and 
Mrs S was probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am 
not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman