DRN-1906580
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of their property 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H notified Fairmead in May 2019 after noticing crack damage in their home. 
Fairmead carried out investigations and thought the damage had been caused by 
subsidence due to nearby vegetation. 
Mr and Mrs H thought the damage had happened because of building work their neighbour 
did. They therefore disagreed with Fairmeads decision to treat their claim as one of 
subsidence, and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for Fairmead to treat the claim as subsidence, as investigations had revealed the 
cause of the subsidence. She noted Fairmead had offered Mr and Mrs H £50 compensation 
for failing to contact them when it said it would, and thought that was fair. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept our investigators findings and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H dont agree with Fairmead that the damage to their property has been caused 
by subsidence. Theyre unhappy about this because theyll need to disclose the subsidence 
when applying for future insurance, and when they sell the property. They think the damage 
was caused by their neighbours building works (in particular to a retaining wall), but theyve 
been told they dont have a reasonable chance of success in taking legal action against their 
neighbour, unless Fairmead agrees with them that the damage was caused by the building 
works.
When a claim is notified to an insurer and theres crack damage to the property, Id expect 
an insurer to arrange for a subsidence specialist to examine the damage to see if the cracks 
look like typical subsidence damage. If the subsidence specialist thinks the damage does 
appear to have been caused by subsidence, then site investigations should take place to 
establish this.
Fairmeads subsidence specialist thought the crack damage was caused by subsidence, 
rather than the building work carried out by Mr and Mrs Hs neighbour. Site investigations 
therefore took place, as Id expect. The investigations showed that the drains were fine, but it 
was thought nearby trees were causing the subsidence. Thats because clay sub-soils were 
found beneath the foundations, together with the presence of tree roots. Although Fairmead 
arranged for the roots to be analysed, the samples werent sufficient to confirm the tree 
species. 
Fairmead then arranged for an inspection to take place by an arborist. The arborist assessed 
the site and made recommendations to fell some nearby vegetation that it was thought was 
causing the subsidence.
Due to Mr and Mrs Hs disagreement over the cause of the damage, I see that Fairmead 
asked a second subsidence specialist to carry out a desktop review and provide an opinion 
on the matter. That subsidence specialist was also of the view that the damage had been 
caused by subsidence, rather than the building works carried out by Mr and Mrs Hs 
neighbour. That was due to the presence of tree roots and clay sub-soils beneath the 
foundations of the property, but it was also thought the location of the retaining wall wouldnt 
influence the foundations where the damage had happened. 
Crucially, Mr and Mrs H havent provided any expert opinion to contradict that of Fairmeads 
subsidence specialists. Consequently, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to rely on the 
opinion of its two subsidence specialists and categorise the claim as subsidence. 
Mr and Mrs H are also unhappy with Fairmeads lack of communication whilst investigating 
the claim. I agree with our investigator that they werent updated as often as they should 
have been, but I think the £50 offered by Fairmead was appropriate compensation for the 
inconvenience they were caused by this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman