DRN-3135417
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with PRA Group (UK) Limiteds handling of a credit card debt. 
Mr J says PRA have no authority to report the default as the court concluded the debt was 
unenforceable and PRA have failed to show they legally own the debt. 
What happened
I issued my provisional findings to both parties on 2 September 2021 which are copied below 
and form part of this decision. 
What happened 
A credit card was taken out in May 2012 with Company B, with the last payment being made
towards the account on 26 February 2019.
As no further payments were made, on 30 July 2019 Company B defaulted the outstanding
debt of £4,072.96 and sold it to PRA. (The debt has more recently been reduced by the
original creditor following a review of accounts to £3,274.18.) Shortly after the default was
registered PRA became the legal owners of the debt. (Mr J disputes this point, and Ill refer
to this in more detail later on.)
To show they were now responsible for the debt, PRA provided a copy of Company Bs
Notice of Assignment (NOA) dated 21 August 2019 and they confirmed PRA had also sent a
NOA to Mr J at the same address.
Through September, October and into November 2019, PRAs case notes show attempts to
contact Mr J via phone, email, text and letter with no success. The records show that
litigation letters were sent to Mr J in November and December 2019 and, after no response
from Mr J, a claim was accepted at court in January 2020. Mr J submitted a Subject Access
Request (SAR) to PRA in February 2020. I understand from the submissions Mr J also made
a SAR to Company B.
A hearing took place before a Deputy District Judge on 9 October 2020 who concluded the
debt was not enforceable.
After the hearing PRA continued to report the debt as a default against Mr J on his credit file.
Mr J complained about PRAs authority to do this, and that in any event as the debt was not
enforceable it should not be reported on his credit file. As Mr J was unable to reach a
resolution with PRA, he brought the complaint to our service and is looking to have his credit
file cleared of anything in relation to this debt.
Our investigator reviewed the matter and concluded Mr Js complaint should not be upheld.
They explained it was only possible for this service to consider the actions of PRA under this
complaint, not Company B  so any concerns about the initial registration of the default
should be directed to Company B.
The investigator also explained there was enough information available for our service to say
PRA owned the debt  in particular, the investigator referred to the NOAs. And the
investigator explained that a Deed of Assignment (DOA) was a document between Company
B and PRA regarding the sale of several accounts, so not a document solely relating to the
sale of Mr Js account and it was not a document for our service to validate. The investigator
said if Mr J felt strongly that PRA didnt own the debt, then he should approach Company B.
Our investigator said it was also not for our service to determine if a debt is enforceable, and
noted Mr J had not disputed that he had entered into the agreement with Company B. The
investigators findings were that it was reasonable for PRA to conclude the debt was owed
by Mr J and it was reasonable for them to continue recording the default. And while the
investigator noted Mr Js reference to a particular Court of Appeal ruling about a different
case, they noted differences between Mr Js circumstances and the case he was referring to
- so they didnt find this was enough to change their view that Mr Js complaint should not be
upheld.
Mr J strongly disagreed. Mr J felt the investigator had not done enough to establish that the
debt was owned by PRA. And he made three particular points; firstly, in light of the court
case he had cited to support his position, it was not reasonable for PRA to continue
registering the default against him; the NOAs the investigator was relying on to support PRA
owned the debt were not certified copies and there was no evidence of a NOA sent to him
from Company B (he had not received a copy of a NOA through his SAR request from
Company B) and lastly, PRA had not provided a correctly executed DOA to prove they
legally owned the debt.
As Mr J and the investigator were unable to reach an agreement, the case has been passed
to me to decide.
Since receiving the case to decide PRA have provided their legal representatives summary
of the court hearing which took place on 9 October 2020. Im mindful that the summary of the
hearing is not a court record, but I have no reason to doubt its contents at this time.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully reviewed everything, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator
for broadly the same reasons.
Before setting out my provisional findings, Mr J should note it is not for this service to decide
matters of enforceability  that is for a court to decide. Furthermore, it would be inappropriate
for this service to consider any matters that have already been dealt with by the courts.
It may also be helpful for Mr J to note that this service is set up as an alternative to the
courts. So while, amongst other things, the ombudsmans considerations will take into
account any relevant laws, rules, regulations, codes of practice and good practice,
ombudsmans decisions are determined by what is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of the individual complaint.
So I need to decide if PRA have acted fairly and reasonably in Mr Js case.
Mr J has told us he wishes for PRA to stop reporting the default for this debt on his credit file
and I understand this to be for two main reasons. Firstly, because Mr J says PRA have not
provided the required documentation to demonstrate they are the legal owners of the debt inquestion. And secondly, because the court dismissed PRAs claim and said the debt was
unenforceable. Mr J says this means it follows that the debt should no longer be reported on
his credit file. To support his position Mr J referenced particular case law.
Does PRA own the debt? 
The Judge ordered the claim [to enforce the debt] be dismissed. And it appears accepted by
the parties that this was due to PRA being unable to provide a complete copy of a
reconstituted credit agreement. Ive seen no suggestion that this order was given because
PRA do not own the debt or that the matter of who owned the debt was dealt with during the
hearing. Im therefore satisfied at this time that I can consider this part of the complaint.
However, should any new evidence come to light in reply to this provisional decision relating
to the courts dealings with this subject matter, then it may be necessary for me to review
whether it would be appropriate for our office to continue considering this particular
complaint point.
Having listened to the telephone calls between Mr J and our investigator I am aware Mr J
feels strongly that PRA have not demonstrated theyve followed the proper process under
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 to become the legal owners of the debt.
As previously explained, this service is not a court of law and it is not for this service to
determine whether a DOA is valid.
In my review I have considered the relevant regulations which set out the requirement on a
business to show theyve bought a debt. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which can be found in the regulators Handbook, sets
out what the regulator expects a business to provide in order to show the ownership of a
debt has changed.
CONC 6.5.2 says Where rights of a lender under a regulated credit agreement are assigned
to a firm, the firm must arrange for a notice of assignment to be given to the customeras
soon as possible.
Ive seen nothing in the regulations to say a business must send a consumer the DOA or
that a NOA should be certified.
I understand Mr J has said he didnt receive a copy of the NOA from Company B through his
SAR, but Im unable to say why that may not have been available and it would be something
to ask Company B. However, PRA provided a copy of the NOA from Company B to Mr J
dated 21 August 2019. And PRAs internal screen records dated 21 August 2019 also record
Notice of Assignment sent to [Mr J] and quoted the address used for Mr J, which was the
same address used by Company B. I therefore think it more likely than not the required NOA
was sent to Mr J by both Company B and PRA.
As Ive said, theres no suggestion in the summary of the hearing that there was any debate
as to whether PRA are the legal owners of the debt. PRAs legal representative notes
mention that a copy of the DOA was presented in the submissions and that the Judge
highlighted that the defendant (Mr J) had accepted hed entered into a credit card agreement
with the original creditor and that the debt was assigned in August 2019.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr J, but in view of the above I find it fair
and reasonable to say that PRA own this debt.
Should PRA continue to report the default? The Judge gave no direction regarding whether the debt should continue to appear on Mr Js
credit file - so Im satisfied this is something I can consider.
Ive reviewed Mr Js submissions on this point and Im afraid I am unable to agree with him
that the default should no longer be reported.
To support his case Mr J has referred to particular case law to illustrate that where a debt is
no longer enforceable it should mean the debt no longer exists to be reported. However, I
dont think this automatically follows.
The question of whether unenforceable debts should continue to be reported on credit files is
not straightforward and I consider this broader question would be better suited to a court to
decide. The case law Mr J has referred to in his submissions highlights the complexity of this
question. So it is not something for me to decide. My role here is to consider the individual
circumstances of this complaint. Ive therefore considered whether it is fair and reasonable
that PRA continue to report the debt on Mr Js credit file.
As Ive mentioned, there was no instruction following the hearing that PRA must stop
reporting the default on Mr Js credit file.
There is also nothing to suggest the credit agreement has been voided. From PRAs legal
representatives summary notes its recorded that the Judge noted the claim was
unenforceable while the fault with the reconstituted credit agreement continued. So it seems
to me this is something that could potentially change should the complete documentation
later become available.
It also appears the Judge highlighted Mr Js acceptance of entering into the credit agreement
with the original creditor. And Ive noted in Mr Js conversations with our service Mr J did not
explicitly say he was denying it was his debt when asked.
As the debt is not enforceable at this time I understand PRA is no longer attempting to
recover the debt from Mr J, so I think they are acting fairly in this regard by no longer
chasing Mr J for the outstanding sum.
But while PRA is no longer able to chase Mr J for the debt, as the owner of the debt PRA
has a responsibility to accurately report to the credit reference agencies the information they
hold in relation to their customers. I think PRA have reasonably concluded this is Mr Js debt
and I therefore think, at this time, it is fair for them to continue showing the default on Mr Js
credit file.
My provisional decision
I am sorry this will not be the outcome Mr J had hoped for, but for the reasons above my 
provisional decision is that Mr Js complaint is not upheld. 
Both parties now have the opportunity to provide me with any further submissions they wish 
me to consider. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
My provisional decision asked for any further submissions from the parties to be with our 
office by 1 October 2021. 
Our service contacted Mr J to check hed received the provisional decision. Mr J responded 
to say he disagreed with the findings and told us there would be more to follow. Our service chased Mr J on two further occasions for any further submissions and extended the deadline 
for his response. However, Mr J did not contact our service again within the timeframe set 
and the extended deadline has now expired. 
PRA replied to my provisional decision to say they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me with any further submissions or evidence to consider in 
relation to this complaint, I see no reason to alter the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
That is, for the reasons above, I think its fair to say PRA own the debt in question and at this 
time based on the evidence and submissions Ive reviewed, I think it is fair for PRA to 
continue reporting the default on Mr Js credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman