The complaint 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is about Yorkshire Building Society. Theyre unhappy that they 
werent given information about a different available product when they took out a mortgage 
with Yorkshire Building Society in March 2018 on an advised basis. Yorkshire told them in 
November 2019 and paid into the mortgage the £827.50 extra cost this wouldve caused Mr 
and Mrs D. It also paid £80 for any trouble and upset caused by failing to fully explain what 
had happened initially. Mr and Mrs D felt if theyd known the service wasnt good enough, 
they wouldve gone elsewhere.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When an adviser recommends a product, it must be suitable to meet the needs of the
consumer involved. This doesnt necessarily mean that the cheapest product is
recommended as a consumer might for example want to benefit from flexibility or
need stability for a particular period of time. Many products are likely to be suitable; it
would be most unusual for only one product to be suitable.
When Mr and Mrs D were advised, Yorkshire had created a suite of products which
led to higher interest rates being offered to some lower risk loans. Mr and Mrs D
couldve had a product with the same fixed period by applying for a product designed
for customers with less equity in their property than Mr and Mrs D. When this issue
was identified, Yorkshire fairly and reasonably notified affected customers and
refunded the additional cost to their account. This means theres no financial loss.
Mr and Mrs D accept this but feel if theyd known that a product hadnt been
recommended to them which was suitable and cheaper, theyd have gone elsewhere.
They think the product they have has been mis-sold. But this overlooks the fact that
Yorkshire did itself notice the issue and resolved it by crediting money to their
mortgage account (leading to reduced monthly payments); this is a positive step.
And what happened doesnt mean that Mr and Mrs D current product is unsuitable. It
addresses Mr and Mrs Ds needs as identified through the fact find process. And its
worth noting that the other product Mr and Mrs D werent recommended had
significant product and valuation fees attached. The financial loss has been dealt with
and I cant say that anything further would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances.
Fair and reasonable compensation has been paid for the failings in providing a full
explanation. This service doesnt deal with hypothetical situations and I note that Mr
and Mrs D told the investigator that they didnt know what outcome they were
seeking.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
DRN-1589599My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Yorkshire Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman