DRN-3693828
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the settlement AXA Insurance UK Plc offered her following a claim 
on her caravan insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Hs caravan was damaged in a storm and she made a claim on her policy. AXA offered 
her a settlement based on the amount Mrs H had insured the caravan for when she took out 
her policy. But Mrs H thought this was unfair as the caravan had increased significantly in 
value. AXA said the caravan was under-insured and it reduced the settlement 
proportionately.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mrs H had 
stated the caravans correct market value when she took out her policy. She thought this had 
increased significantly. And she thought it was unfair for AXA to penalise Mrs H for this. She 
thought AXA should pay Mrs H the caravans market value at the date of its loss, with 
interest on the difference between what it had paid and what it should have paid. And she 
thought AXA should pay Mrs H £300 compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused 
at a difficult time. 
AXA replied that it had acted within the policys terms and conditions. It thought issues about 
the policy limits should be directed to the broker who sold the policy to Mrs H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs H wants a fair settlement for the loss of her caravan. I was sorry to 
hear about Mrs Hs loss and I can understand that dealing with the claim has been an added 
burden for her. 
Mrs Hs complaint is about the settlement of her claim, not its sale or administration. So Im 
satisfied that the complaint should be directed to the policys underwriter, which is AXA in 
this instance. 
Mrs H said she paid £8,000 for the caravan and this was the amount she stated as its value 
on her policy documents. I can see that the policy requires Mrs H to provide accurate 
information and I think she did this when she stated the caravans value. The claim fell within 
the policy year. And I cant see that Mrs H was asked to tell AXA about any increases in the 
caravans value during the contract. 
AXAs expert valued the caravans market value at its date of loss as £11,995. He said this 
took into account the current high demand due to the pandemic. And he said the caravan 
wasnt valued in the motor trade guides we use. So I think AXA could reasonably rely on his 
expert valuation. 
But AXA said Mrs H had underinsured the caravan by 33%, the difference between the 
market value at its date of loss and the value stated on the policy. 
I can see that the policy warns consumers about undervaluing:
COVER TYPE: Market Value
Please make one final check that your sums insured/limits of indemnity are adequate as 
claims payments could be proportionately reduced if any sums insured are too low.
And I can see that on page 6 of the policy booklet Mrs H was told:
How much to Insure for?
It is up to you to make sure that the amount you insure for represents the full value of the 
property concerned. For Caravan, Contents, Equipment & Awnings, this means the full cost 
of replacing all the property as new.
If you have selected Market Value, this is cost of replacing the Caravan, taking into account 
its type, age, wear and tear and general condition in the open market at the time of the loss.
Remember, if you underinsure any claims payment may be reduced. Please refer to Page 
23 for a full explanation of this condition.
And on page 14 and again on page 23, the policy booklet explains
If the Sum Insured is less than the full replacement cost. We will only pay the same 
proportion of the loss or damage as the Sum Insured bears to the full replacement cost.
For example, if the Sum Insured represents only one half of the full replacement cost We will 
only pay for one half of the amount lost or damaged.
And so AXA deducted 33% from the amount Mrs H had stated and it offered her a maximum 
of £5,360 in settlement of her claim. 
The caravan was deemed to be a Category C total loss. Mrs H said she would retain the 
salvage, and AXA said this would cost her £3,358.60, as calculated by the salvage agent. It 
deducted the £150 policy excess. And so the final settlement offered to Mrs H was 
£1,851.40.
Our approach is that its fair and reasonable for insurers to apply deductions for 
underinsurance if this has led to the consumer paying a lower premium than they would 
have done if the item had been insured for its full value. But I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for AXA to apply underinsurance terms in Mrs Hs particular circumstances. 
This is because I dont think its reasonable to expect Mrs H to have predicted that there 
would be an increase in the caravans value due to the pandemic. I think she stated the 
caravans value as the amount shed paid for it. This was in keeping with the policy 
requirement for market value cover, as stated above. And I dont think its fair for AXA to 
expect Mrs H to have researched changes in its value. And the policy didnt require her to 
update AXA about any unexpected increases in its market value.  
So, to resolve Mrs Hs complaint, I think AXA should offer her the valuation of the caravans 
market value at its date of loss, as estimated by its expert and in keeping with the policys 
terms and conditions. Mrs H has been without her money for some time. And so I think AXA 
should reasonably add interest to the difference between what AXA paid and what it should 
have paid when it incorrectly settled the claim, £6,635. And I think it can reasonably deduct 
the policy excess and salvage value from this settlement if Mrs H still wishes to retain the 
caravan. 
I think Mrs H has been put to significant trouble and upset by AXAs unfair decision. Our 
Investigator thought AXA should pay Mrs H £300 compensation for this. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for the impact this had. 
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
1. Settle the claim in full and pay Mrs H the market value of the caravan at the date of the loss, without any deduction for underinsurance (subject to deductions for policy excess 
and salvage). 
2. Add interest on the amount of £6,635 at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date 
when the claim was incorrectly settled until the date of full settlement.
3. Pay Mrs H £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman