DRN-2733523
The complaint
Mr C has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has dealt with a 
claim under a commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C had a fire at a rental property he owned that consisted of a shop with residential 
properties above it. RSA accepted the claim and agreed to settle it as a cash settlement, as 
Mr C wanted to use his own contractor for the work.
Mr C complained to RSA about how it proposed to settle the claim. He said RSAs 
settlement didnt include all of the damage, the loss of rent RSA paid should have been for 
nine months rather than eight and the settlement should also have covered the loss of rent 
for one of the flats.
When RSA replied, it said it had originally offered a cash settlement of £42,000 for the work 
or for its own contractors to be used to repair the damage. Following further negotiations, it 
has increased its offer to £64,700 in full and final settlement. RSA said that the amount 
offered for the loss of rent covered nine months rent. The amount offered was correct, but 
the letters wording hadnt been updated to explain it was for nine months rent. However, 
RSA wouldnt cover loss of rent for the flat, as it wasnt damaged and made uninhabitable by 
the fire. The flat had non-claim related damage which led to the tenant moving out. Mr C had 
now offered the flat as a welfare site for the claim and the costs towards this had been 
included in the tender. Any further allowances for this would be a duplicate payment. RSA 
confirmed all works to be completed as part of the claim had been included in the tender, so 
it wasnt aware of any outstanding costs.
Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said RSA 
had settled the claim reasonably and had included all of the relevant items in its settlement.
As Mr C did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the amount RSA offered to cash settle the claim when Mr C said he wanted his 
own contractor to carry out the repair and whether this included everything it should have. Mr 
C has said that the settlement should have included items such as fire doors, some roll-top 
laminate and kitchen unit end panels. Ive read the tender document and the overall offer 
made to Mr C to settle the claim and am satisfied this included each of the relevant items. 
The replacement doors were costed on the basis of replacing the doors with the same types 
of doors in the property before the fire. So, Im satisfied that the doors listed put Mr C back in 
the position he was in before the fire. I think it was reasonable for RSA to say that any 
betterment, such as fitting fire doors where they werent previously fitted, would need to be 
at Mr Cs expense. Although the amount RSA offered was less than it would cost Mr C to get 
the work done through his own contractor, Im satisfied that RSA acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy with the offer it made and that it didnt have to pay more than it 
would have cost RSA to do the work itself.
Ive also looked at the issue of the rent for one of the flats. Mr C said the loss of rent for the 
flat should be covered as part of the claim. I havent seen any evidence of damage to that 
flat as a result of the fire which would have meant the tenant needed to move out. Im aware 
Mr C has also said the tenant moved out because he had asthma, which had been affected 
by the fire. However, no evidence was provided to show this was the reason the tenant 
moved out. Mr C was also unable to provide details to enable RSA to contact the tenant to 
confirm why he had moved out. On that basis, I think it was reasonable for RSA not to cover 
loss of rent for the flat.
Mr C also said he offered the flat as a welfare site and that, as a result, RSA had agreed to 
cover the cost of the flat being empty from before the works began until their completion. Mr 
C provided emails he had sent to RSA in which he said it had agreed to cover the rent on the 
flat. However, I havent seen anything from RSA to show that it had agreed to do this. 
Looking at the tender document, this showed that an allowance had been included in the 
settlement for a welfare site and toilet facilities. RSA also provided the amounts for these 
items and explained they were calculated on the basis of them being hired in. Having 
considered this, Im satisfied that RSA included a reasonable amount for the welfare site, 
whether this was provided externally or by using Mr Cs flat, even if Mr Cs flat was empty for 
longer than the 10 weeks listed in the tender. This is because the cost of hiring the welfare 
site externally was more than the cost of using Mr Cs flat as the welfare site.
So, I think RSAs offer to settle the claim was reasonable in the circumstances and that it 
covered the required items to return Mr C to the position he was in before the fire. As a 
result, I dont require RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman