DRN-4246637
The complaint
A charity, which I will call K, complains that TSB Bank plc mishandled several international 
transfers.
Mr G, one of Ks trustees, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
Mr G told us:
K works with partners in another country, and regularly makes payments to those 
partners. Up until December 2019 it had no difficulty making payments using TSB, 
and funds would reliably arrive within one to three days.
From December 2019 onwards TSBs international payment system became 
unreliable. Sometimes the payments would take two months to arrive, sometimes 
they would be returned with fees deducted, but occasionally they would reach the 
recipient in just a couple of days.
He has raised the issue with TSB many times. It failed to address the issue, and 
instead put the blame on him for attempting to send money to a closed account 
(which he did not), failing to provide routing information (which was not available to 
him), or failing to enter information in a box on its website (which did not exist).
He believes the problem is that TSB is attempting to route payments through 
intermediate banks which do not have a correspondent relationship with the 
recipients bank. He has tried to get TSB to route the payments through two specific 
banks, which he understands do have the relevant relationships, but TSB has not 
done so.
The delays have caused considerable inconvenience to K, as well as some 
unnecessary costs. But the impact on Ks foreign partners have been much more 
significant. As just one example, the delays meant that a construction project that 
would have benefitted many people had to be halted and staff laid off.
His various complaints to TSB have resulted in five TSB complaint references 
(covering more than five payments). His understanding is that TSB linked all five 
references and kept all of them open, and so he should be able to refer all five of 
those complaints to our service.
TSB told us:
It issued five final responses to Ks five different complaints. Mr G only referred one 
of those complaints to us within six months of the relevant final response  which 
means that the other complaints were referred too late. It does not consent to us 
looking at the first four complaints, and so it believes we can only consider Ks most 
recent complaint about payments instructed on 9 August 2021 and 1 September 
2021.
It did not do anything wrong in relation to those two payments. It sent both payments 
using the SWIFT system, which is automated, but they were ultimately rejected.
One of our investigators said we couldnt look at Ks complaints about the payments 
instructed before 9 August 2021, because those complaints had been referred to us too late.
He did look at Ks complaint about the payments instructed on 9 August 2021 and 1 
September 2021 but he didnt think TSB had made any mistakes and so he didnt 
recommend any compensation.
TSB accepted our investigators findings, but Mr G did not. Briefly, he said:
TSB told him on numerous occasions, and most recently in autumn 2020, that all five 
reference numbers were marked in its system as open, and that the four earlier 
references were linked to the later one. It also said that the four earlier references 
now formed part of the later one, and confirmed to me that the dates on earlier Final 
Response letters no longer applied. He explained that my very clear understanding 
was that the final response to [Ks complaint about the transfers instructed on 9 
August 2021 and 1 September 2021] represented the final response letter to all five 
complaints, and is the relevant letter to my subsequent referral to your service.
He disputes the conclusion that TSB did not make a mistake in respect of the 
payments instructed on 9 August 2021 and 1 September 2021. Everyone accepts 
that K provided TSB with both the correct IBAN information for the recipient and the 
correct fee. That is all that is required of K. If TSB cannot provide the service that is 
requested, then at the very least it should refund the fee.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2023, and explained why I agreed 
with TSB as to jurisdiction. I didnt think K had referred its first four complaints to us in time, 
and I didnt think exceptional circumstances had prevented it from complying with the time 
limits.
I went on to consider the merits of Ks complaint about the payments instructed on 9 August 
2021 and 1 September 2021. I said:
TSB used SWIFT to attempt to send the international payments. I dont criticise it for 
doing so; SWIFT is designed to facilitate international payments like the ones K 
intended to make. TSB is also right to say that SWIFT is an automated process and 
that it has no control over how the payments are routed.
I appreciate that this is a deeply unsatisfactory situation. I think Mr G and K did 
everything they could to ensure that the 9 August 2021 and 1 September 2021 
payments reached their international partner, and it was in no way their fault that the 
payments did not arrive. But I dont think the problem was TSBs fault either; I think it 
also did everything it could and so it is entitled to payment for the services it 
provided.
Its clear that something did go wrong somewhere  and its possible that the problem 
happened outside the UK. But TSB is not responsible for the actions of the othe banks involved, nor is it responsible for SWIFT. K has no relationship with the other 
banks, so I cannot consider a complaint from K about anything they may have done.
I understand why Mr G is suspicious that the problems K experienced might have 
something to do with TSBs systems becoming fully integrated with those of Banco 
Sabadell (its parent company). He had no problems before 2019, then TSBs process 
for handing international payments changed, and then the problems began. But Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that that is anything more than a coincidence. Ive seen the 
SWIFT messages that relate to the payments instructed on 9 August 2021 and 1 
September 2021, and as our investigator explained the payments were returned for 
reasons that had nothing to do with either TSB or Banco Sabadell.
I am not persuaded that TSB did anything wrong here, so it would not be fair for me 
to uphold this complaint.
I believe K has since found an alternative way to pay its international partners, and I 
hope those payments continue to be trouble free.
Neither party provided any further comments in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is nothing I can add to my provisional findings  and I now confirm 
them as final. I am not persuaded that TSB did anything wrong, so it would not be fair for me 
to uphold Ks complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman