DRN-4182142
The complaint
Ms W complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) was 
irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Ms W had one loan from Everyday Loans in October 2021 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1  29 Oct 2021 £1,500 24m £119.44 1 Nov 2023 In arrears
Ms W says that Everyday Loans did insufficient checks before approving the lending. She 
says she could not afford the monthly repayments and within a few months was struggling 
financially. Ms W adds that the loan was intended to consolidate other debts, but it ended up 
causing her to get further into debt which in turn affected her mental health.
Everyday Loans says it reviewed Ms Ws bank statements and a payslip and carried out a 
credit search. It said it calculated Ms W had a monthly disposable income figure of £66 after 
the consolidation and the loan repayment. Everyday Loans says it believed the checks were 
proportionate and the repayments were sustainable.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said Everyday Loans 
calculations showed Ms W had insufficient disposable income to sustainably make the 
repayments and should refund all the interest and charges as well as removing any 
associated negative information recorded on her credit file.
Everyday Loans did not respond to the investigators recommendation and so the complaint 
has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Ws case, Ive considered the following:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Ms Ws loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Everyday Loans carried out the following checks for the loans:
It checked and verified Ms Ws income and employment;
It checked and verified Ms Ws rental costs;
It reviewed Ms Ws credit file and identified credit to be repaid with the new loan;
It reviewed Ms Ws recent bank statements.
Im satisfied these checks were reasonable and proportionate for the loan.
As Im satisfied that Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks, I have now 
considered what this information showed:
Ms Ws verified income was £1,371
She had rental costs of £495 per month;
She had three credit cards with a combined balance of £2,928;
oTwo of these cards were over their credit limit;
There was a £15 per month credit commitment to a telecoms company;
Ms W said the purpose of the loan was for consolidation and that she intended to 
repay a credit card with a balance of £479;
This meant her existing monthly credit commitment was £138 going forwards;
From her bank statements, Everyday Loans identified regular expenditure of £205 on 
council tax, insurances, TV and phone costs and car expenses;
Everyday Loans used industry standard statistical data to estimate Ms Ws remaining 
monthly living expenses to be £322.
Adding a 5% buffer onto the living expenses, Everyday Loans calculated that Ms W would 
have disposable income of £66 per month after making the loan repayment.
Im not satisfied this demonstrated the loan was sustainably affordable to Ms W because:
The loan was for 24 months, and I find it unlikely that a disposable income of £66 per 
month would be sufficient to cover any unforeseen expenditure for that period;
Everyday Loans had estimated some of Ms Ws outgoings and a review of her bank 
statements suggest that the figures used for food and petrol were significantly lower 
than her actual expenditure;
Although Ms W had an explanation for being over her credit limits, I consider this was 
already an indication that she might be struggling financially.
So, in summary, I find the loan was unsustainable for Ms W and, indeed, I note she only 
made two repayments on the loan before the third was returned unpaid and no further 
payments were made. That said, I havent seen any evidence to show that Everyday Loans 
acted unfairly in any other respect and whilst I sympathise with the effect this has had on Ms Ws mental health, I cant see that it was made aware of the issues before Ms W 
submitted her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) should:
Add up the total amount of money Ms W received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Ms W made should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Ms W having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
 If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should 
attempt to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Ms W;
Remove any negative information recorded on Ms Ws credit file regarding the 
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman