DRN-2884402
The complaint
Mr W says:
He transferred his pension into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) provided 
by @SIPP LIMITED (@SIPP), with a plan to use the SIPP for commercial property 
investment. He pursued a specific commercial property purchase (comprising retail 
units and associated land). @SIPP assured him the purchase, in the SIPP, would be 
straightforward and would be expected to complete in about eight weeks to three 
months. He was induced into the transfer by both the planned purchase and 
@SIPPs assurances.
The purchase pursuit began in June 2019. In June 2020, it fell through because the 
seller withdrew the sale after being frustrated by problems and delays caused by 
@SIPP and by the Conveyancing Solicitors (the CS) it had recommended to him for 
the purchase. Prior to this, he had warned @SIPP and the CS about the sellers 
frustration but his warnings were not heeded.
He considers that the purchase was essentially advised by @SIPP, as was selection 
of the CS, that it misadvised him in that respect and misguided him on the main 
aspects of the transaction (including a failure to monitor his exposure to accumulating 
fees), that it subsequently conceded that it should never have encouraged him into 
the purchase (because it was too complicated) and that it is therefore responsible for 
his losses in terms of the significant legal fees he incurred and lost rent.
What happened
@SIPP disputes the complaint, with reasons. It mainly says it holds no responsibility for the 
failed purchase and no responsibility for Mr Ws claim(s). One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint and concluded it should not be upheld. In the main, he said:
@SIPPs role was to work with Mr Ws financial adviser and the CS in the purchase. 
It wrote to both on 5 July 2019 about the purchase and to request information on and 
details of it. In October it wrote to Mr W about a change of the official conducting the 
matter, as the previous official had left the firm, and about the new officials view that 
it was an extremely complex purchase so a period of time to review the file and 
understand the purchase was needed. In the next month @SIPP met with all parties 
to discuss progress of the purchase. The solicitors on both sides continued to 
address transaction related enquiries between November 2019 and January 2020.
The CS wrote to @SIPP in February 2020 about complex issues that had arisen in 
the drafting of the lease for the purchase. @SIPP wrote to Mr W the next day (5 
February) and questioned whether (or not) he still wished to proceed with the 
purchase, given that legal fees had accumulated in the excess of £14,700 at the time 
and given that there was  a good bit of work still to be done. It also commented, 
in the email, that the purchase was by far one of the most complex cases it had 
conducted. Mr W responded to confirm he still wished to proceed with the purchase, 
and he also authorised a £10,000 fee payment.
The seller withdrew the sale in June 2020 and Mr W complained in July 2020. 
Property purchases are inherently uncertain; in this case there is evidence that, for 
specific reasons, the intended purchase was particularly complex and was not an 
ordinary commercial property transaction; there is also evidence that its complexity 
was heightened by specific transaction related issues arising from the COVID-19 
pandemic in early 2020; the main responsibility for conducting the purchase 
transaction (and its legal aspects) belonged to the CS, not @SIPP; consideration of 
the CS responsibility in the matter is beyond this services remit; @SIPP was the 
SIPP provider, it did not advise Mr W and he had a financial adviser in that respect; 
@SIPP did not cause delays to the process; its exchange with Mr W in February 
2020 shows that it did not mislead him in the matter and that it was his decision to 
continue with the purchase even after he was reminded about its complexity and 
about accumulating costs; there are no meeting notes to show the assurances that 
he says @SIPP gave him at the outset, but it probably did no more than indicate that 
the purchase within the SIPP was possible; Mr W highlights some staff turnover in 
@SIPP during the process, it is possible this might have caused a small level of 
delay but this was not the cause of the unsuccessful purchase.
The complaint should not be upheld. There seems to be a misunderstanding by Mr W 
about the fact that @SIPP did not advise the purchase and that its representations 
that the SIPP could be used for the commercial property purchase did not constitute 
the advice to purchase that he alleges. There was no misrepresentation in this 
respect, the SIPP could hold the intended purchase. @SIPPs suggestion about 
when the purchase could be completed was not unreasonable. The problem was that 
the purchase failed, and that happened because the seller withdrew the sale. The 
seller did that because of the delays in the process, and the balance of evidence is 
that @SIPP did not cause or contribute significantly to those delays.
Mr W strongly disagreed with the investigator. He referred to what he views as fundamental 
errors of facts in the investigators understanding and he questioned the credibility of his (the 
investigators) outcome in this context  and in the context of what he views as the 
investigators unreasonable failure to give weight to @SIPPs concession that it should not 
have allowed him to attempt the purchase. He says the concession admits that @SIPP gave 
him the wrong advice. He noted that the CS was not his choice, that they were nominated by 
@SIPP, that there is documentary evidence that the seller was frustrated with the CS and 
@SIPP (especially @SIPPs repeated and unnecessary requests, in the process, for 
information it already had), that the seller had issued warnings about this and that he tried 
for weeks to have this addressed by @SIPP but received no response.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It could be helpful to note some facts and preliminary observations in this case. What I refer 
to should not be news to either party, but I am persuaded that they will assist in setting aside 
the aspects of the case that are not, or cannot reasonably be, in dispute and in drawing from 
those aspects a path towards a fair and reasonable conclusion to the case. I note the 
following:A number of different parties were involved in the commercial property purchase 
pursuit, each with its remit and responsibility and I have not seen evidence of 
overlaps in this respect. Mr W was the individual who sought to use his SIPP for the 
purchase [I address the matter of whether (or not) this was advised by @SIPP 
separately, for the present purpose I simply note that this objective was his (as he 
says it was, in his complaint submissions)]; the SIPP was administered by @SIPP, its 
trustees were the legal owner of its assets and Mr W was the beneficial owner; Mr W 
had a financial adviser for the investments in the SIPP, who was involved in the 
purchase pursuit from the outset; the CS were the lawyers nominated by @SIPP to 
conduct the legal conveyancing for the intended purchase; and on the other side of 
the transaction were, at least, the seller and the sellers conveyancing solicitors.
There is no evidence of a recommendation from @SIPP to Mr W about the specific 
commercial property he sought to buy and no evidence that it recommended that he 
should buy it. He says he planned to purchase a commercial property in the course 
of the SIPP transfer and he has referred to discussion with his adviser and @SIPP, in 
June 2019, of the specific commercial property that features in the complaint. 
However, I repeat, there is no evidence that this property was recommended by 
@SIPP  or that the notion of a commercial property investment in the SIPP was its 
recommendation. Evidence in @SIPPs email to Mr Ws adviser on 20 June 2019  
which does not appear to be disputed  says he found the property himself. As the 
present complaint is only about @SIPP, I do not consider it necessary to delve into 
whether (or not) the commercial property investment was recommended to Mr W 
and, if so, by whom. It is enough to find that @SIPPs main role was to administer the 
SIPP, that its role did not extend to investment advice (to Mr W) and that it did not 
recommend (to him) the commercial property investment. In the above context, his 
arguments about @SIPP advising him (and those based on this notion) fall away.
The pursuit began, in the main, in June 2019. A year later, in June 2020, Mr W learnt 
that the seller had withdrawn the sale and he informed the CS about this.
@SIPPs email of 20 June 2019 to Mr Ws adviser summarised the meeting held on 
that date. In it, the CS was nominated for the intended purchase and, should the CS 
be selected, the email referred the adviser to an electronic page on its legal panels 
fees and to notice that the standard fees  could increase if extra work needed. 
Key excerpts from the email include  
The current owner has this property as well as a separate residential flat above, the 
intention is to only buy the commercial element in the SIPP
As the original owner will be keeping the flat, there will be legal chats around shared
access and grounds to be had
A purchase without lending can take around 3 months as an average, of course it 
can happen quicker in some cases but with this one having extra chats about the resi 
[sic] element I would pin point 3 months as a guideline. [my emphasis]
In 2020, @SIPP wrote to Mr W on 5 February, 31 March and 3 April and on each 
occasion it queried whether (or not) he still wished to proceed with the purchase 
given, overall, its complexities, the time it was taking and the accumulation of costs. I 
referred to the contents of the 5 February email above. The 31 March email, at the 
time of the first COVID-19 related national lockdown, referred to the problem of 
purchases not being able to complete and uncertainty about when that would 
change. The 3 April email had a similar message and included @SIPPs concern about the accumulation of fees for Mr W. He maintained his pursuit for the purchase 
despite these communications.
Mr W has said to us that the purchase  fell apart 100% due to @sipp; that the 
seller  believed @SIPP and [the CS] were continually frustrating the sale; that 
@SIPP was  continually asking for the same information they had already 
received; that he repeatedly warned @SIPP and the CS about the risk of the seller 
withdrawing in these circumstances; and that he  only proceeded with the sale 
because [he] was already out 10k and [he] was told the sale completion was 
imminent. There is nothing in @SIPPs emails of 5 February, 31 March and 3 April 
that says, or even suggests, that the sale completion was imminent. Communications 
on the transaction up to April 2020 were mainly about technical/conveyancing issues 
and then, in addition, about the problem caused by uncertainty over completions. 
Mr W sent an email to the CS (copied to @SIPP) on 28 May 2020. It included the 
following  
The seller has run out of confidence in both solicitors and has instructed [its 
solicitors] to Down tools until we can at least show progress and see that a deal can 
be done.
I actually agree with the seller. This has gone on far too long and all thats [sic] 
happening is solicitors fees are going up.
Around a fortnight later, in mid-June, the transaction fell through. In the above email, 
Mr W did not mention frustration, of the seller, by @SIPP. Instead he said the seller 
had lost confidence in both solicitors in the transaction. He refers to accumulating 
fees in the email but that was not news to him. @SIPP had repeated warnings to him 
about that since, at least, 5 February 2020 and each time he decided to proceed 
regardless. There is also evidence in the 20 June 2019 email about his attention 
being drawn to fees in the matter  @SIPPs fees were set out in the email and there 
was a link for information on legal fees (with the warning that they could increase with 
extra work).
The balance of all the aforementioned evidence shows that it would not be fair or reasonable 
to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Like the investigator said, we do not have minutes of discussions between the parties. 
However, the 20 June 2019 email shows that initiation of the commercial property purchase 
did not involve @SIPP, that Mr W had found the property himself, that @SIPPs role was to 
administer the SIPP in which the property was to be purchased, that it identified potential 
additional legal chats about the residential flat that was not included in the purchase and 
that, with this in mind (and as I emphasised above), its reference to a timescale of three 
months was expressly stated as a guideline  as opposed to an exact timescale it committed 
to. Given the different parties involved in the matter and given that @SIPP did not have a 
lead role in it, it was not in a position to commit to any timescale and it did not do so. Overall, 
I do not accept Mr Ws claim that he was assured or misled  by what he was told at the 
outset  about the timescale for the venture.
@SIPPs concerns, on Mr Ws behalf, about the purchase, its complexities, the time it was 
taking and the accumulation of costs were voiced from early 2020 onwards and were 
repeatedly shared with him. Despite this, he continued with the process. This is not intended 
as a criticism. The purchase was his objective and he was entitled to pursue it. However, it 
does serve as a basis to find that @SIPP identified, around halfway into the overall pursuit, 
that it could be in his interest to reconsider. It shared this with him at the time and continued to do so over three consecutive months before, in the fourth month that followed, Mr W 
eventually appears to have shared the same sentiment. By the time he reached this point it 
appears that failure of the pursuit was already imminent and that happened around a 
fortnight later (in mid-June 2020).
I endorse the investigators comment about the CS having the key role in conducting the 
legal conveyancing in the process, and about this services remit not extending to 
consideration of the CS actions (or inactions) in the case. The complaint is about @SIPP 
and, with regards to the CS, this service is neither the regulator of nor ombudsman service 
for solicitors. It appears to be true that @SIPP nominated the CS from its panel, but that 
does not automatically mean it undertook responsibility for the professional discharge of its 
function  and I have not seen evidence that says otherwise. If, as it appears, Mr W holds 
the CS responsible for part of the present complaint it would be a claim beyond @SIPPs 
responsibility and beyond this services remit.
On balance, I have not seen evidence of tangible and/or meaningful delays caused by 
@SIPP in the process and the evidence from Mr W shortly before the purchase failed was 
that it was action or inaction by the solicitors on both sides of the transaction (not by @SIPP) 
that the seller was unhappy with. Furthermore, and as I mentioned above, available 
correspondence evidence shows that technical/conveyancing issues in the transaction, and 
the problem of uncertainty over property purchase completions around the time of the first 
2020 lockdown, were the main causes of the transaction extending for as long as it did 
without a conclusion. @SIPP was responsible for neither of these key elements. @SIPP 
also does not appear to have been responsible for the sellers decision to withdraw the sale. 
It might be noteworthy that the withdrawal appears to have happened not during the main 
period(s) of complexities and uncertainty in the process, but thereafter and at a point where, 
the communications suggest, there was some prospect for progress. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman