DRN-3700806
The complaint
Mr B complains that he incurred significant financial losses when Vision Financial Strategies 
Ltd advised him to switch funds in his pension without taking his attitude to risk into account. 
What happened
Mr B was a client of Fairway Wealth Management Limited (Fairway). Fairway is now the 
responsibility of Vision and I will refer to Vision throughout this decision.
Visions adviser sent Mr B an email on 8 April 2020. The email explained that due to the 
covid pandemic there was uncertainty about how investors should react to changes in 
market conditions. He said he was suggesting a reconstruction of portfolios for his clients. 
The email set out four potential options for clients for the following eight month period:
Place 50% of funds in safety net funds and 50% of funds in specific asset funds 
which the adviser believed would have great potential for growth in this period; or
A lower risk portfolio where the percentage splits were different to the first option 
(e.g. 60/40, 70/30 etc.);  or
A greater risk portfolio where the percentage splits were different to the first option 
(e.g.40/60, 30/70 etc.) or
Do nothing.
The adviser said that a 50/50 split of funds in the way suggested under the first option above 
would create an overall risk level of 5. 
In response to the email Mr Bs wife contacted the adviser to say they wanted to book a 
phone appointment to discuss their personal situation. Mr B says that after the telephone 
appointment he agreed to (mostly) follow the advisers recommendation which was to switch 
50% of the largely equity based funds into bond funds. He says the only divergence was that 
he didnt want to concentrate all of his equity exposure in one particular sector so he 
retained some of the existing equity funds.
In November 2020 Mr B says he emailed the adviser because he was concerned that the 
bonds were not performing well. He says the adviser recommended that he switch from 
bond funds into growth stocks.
Mr B says that at no stage during the conversations in April or November was there any 
reference by the adviser to his agreed risk profile. He says the actions recommended by the 
adviser have resulted in a crystallisation of loss. Had he not been advised to switch to bond 
funds in April, he says his portfolio wouldnt have missed out on the recovery that occurred in 
the period after April 2020. He complained to Vision.
Vision investigated his complaint. It said the advisers email in April 2020 had set out the 
reasons why he felt a reconstruction of portfolios should be considered at that time. The 
adviser had offered choices to Mr B and made clear that the selected funds would create a 
5/10 (medium risk) portfolio. His recorded risk profile at the time was 7/10 (highest medium 
risk). Mr Bs response to the email indicated that he thought the situation may take around 
10 years to normalise and was going to bite a lot harder than the last recession. Vision 
said it suspected that these views contributed to Mr Bs decision to alter his portfolio 
following his conversation with the adviser. 
Vision said Mr B had demonstrated a good knowledge of how investments worked and had 
made his own decisions - such as the exposure he wanted to retain in respect of a particular 
sector and his choice to retain some of his existing equity funds. It said Mr B was aware that 
the proposed fund switches would reduce his level of risk and hed agreed to the switches on 
that basis. 
Vision said it had reviewed the risk rating of the four funds Mr B had switched funds out of 
and these were rated at 5/10 and 6/10  so they were not switches out of high risk funds as 
Mr B had alleged. Vision said the fact that hindsight may indicate some funds within the 
portfolio had not performed as well as others during the period was not the fault of its 
adviser. It said it was unable to address any losses Mr B felt he had incurred.
Mr B did not agree. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint. He thought that in April 2020 Mr Bs attitude to risk (AtR) was high medium and 
his portfolio reflected this at the time. The advisers email, in which he suggested a move to 
lower risk investments, was designed to be a short-term move. Our investigator said that the 
email of 8 April 2020 was not personalised but the adviser had given Mr B the option to 
telephone him and Mr B had done that. He had decided to do something different to what 
was set out in the email dated 8 April. He had chosen to keep a portion of his portfolio in 
existing funds.
Our investigator said Mr B had been alerted to the reduction in the risk profile for the 
investments selected and he felt Mr Bs short-term objectives had been met. Although the 
bond funds had not performed well, our investigator said this did not mean they had been 
unsuitable for Mr B. It was also the case that part of the re-balanced portfolio had 
experienced gains. 
Following the review in November 2020 the adviser had listened to Mr Bs concerns and had 
agreed to the switch to equity growth funds which rebalanced the portfolio back to a higher 
medium overall risk rating. Having considered everything our investigator said that the 
advice given to Mr B in April 2020 and November 2020 was reasonable in the circumstances 
at the time and the adviser had provided adequate explanations to Mr B. He didnt think 
Vision should have to do anything further to resolve the complaint.
Mr B did not agree. In summary he said:
Vision had not maintained accurate and up to date records of Mr Bs AtR and had not 
used this information to tailor advice to his circumstances.
Vision had now provided a copy of the Risk Profiling Report it said had been 
completed in 2016. The AtR risk rating was 7  which Mr B said appeared higher 
than he would have expected given the comments contained in the document.
The Risk Profiling Report had not been updated  contrary to advice from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
In December 2017, Mr B was sent a new client agreement which said that Vision 
would undertake a fact-find to gather information about his needs. It would then set 
out his objectives, level of risk and any restrictions he had in a suitability report which 
would also confirm its recommendations. He had never received a suitability report.
The email of 8 April 2020 was generic and suggested major structural changes to his 
portfolio.Mr B had initiated the review in November 2020. The new high risk growth funds hed 
been recommended to switch to were designed to make up for earlier losses and not 
based on his current AtR  he intended to retire in 4 years time.
Because Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What service did Vision provide to Mr B in 2020?
Ive looked at the Initial Service Agreement and Fee Schedule which set out the service 
that Vision offered to provide and the ongoing service levels that were available. 
The ongoing service level which Mr B received was known as on demand. When the new 
client agreement was sent to Mr B in December 2017, it made clear that there would be no 
change to the ongoing service arrangement unless Mr B requested that and theres no 
evidence he made such a request. 
With the on demand service no formal reviews were instigated by Vision. It was the clients 
responsibility to request such a review and he was entitled to do that every three years. 
Theres no evidence that Mr B did request such a review in the period after 2016 and that 
may explain why the Risk Profiling Report was not updated during that period.
The email dated 8 April 2020
Having reviewed this email, I agree with Mr B that it was generic in nature. It was also 
unsolicited, but I think it was an attempt by Vision to provide a rapid response to unusual 
world events taking place at that time.
The email was not a personal recommendation and I dont think Mr B interpreted it in that 
way either. I say that because his response to the email was to request a telephone meeting 
with the adviser to discuss matters further. The adviser agreed to the telephone meeting and 
that seems to have taken place the next day with Mr B and his wife both in attendance. The 
call wasnt recorded but the adviser made a brief handwritten note of the meeting. He 
recorded:
Agreed 50% of portfolio to go to [named funds]. Overall risk reduced due to the 
addition of the two gilt funds. [Mr B] OK with this. We agreed to review later in 2020 
i.e. after US elections +Brexit (D/N Dec 2020)
Reminded [Mr B] to check the {xx} portal for documentation.
Mr B has acknowledged that during the meeting hed requested that part of his funds should 
be retained in equity based funds because he didnt want to concentrate all of his equity 
exposure into one particular sector. Subsequently, the agreed switches were made. 
Mr B now says that had he known the risk tolerance level recorded for him (highest medium) 
he might have been better able to evaluate the courses of action laid out and he may well 
have simply decided he could absorb more volatility and have done nothing. He says that 
the course of action recommended by Vision, which was to switch from high risk to low risk 
funds after a drop in value had already happened, meant the ability of his portfolio to recover 
was significantly impacted.Having considered what happened in April 2020, Ive decided, taking all the circumstances 
into account, Vision acted fairly and reasonably at that time. I say that mainly for the 
following reasons.
The email dated 8 April 2020, although generic in nature, did set out the context and the 
background for the advice that was subsequently given. It referred to uncertainty caused by 
the covid pandemic and the fact that financial commentators were divided about actions that 
should be taken. The adviser said his view was:
I now believe that we should aim to both protect your portfolio and diversify into 
areas of expected growth even though that will reduce your portfolios 
diversification
He then stated that the action he was proposing was a short term strategy only and it would 
be reviewed after eight months. He acknowledged that one shoe doesnt fit all and that 
some clients might prefer more risk than others. 
The email also included a section entitled Risk and Reward. It explained that the 50/50 split 
proposed (the first option) would create a risk level of 5 on a scale of 1-10. 
I think the information in the email would have alerted Mr B to the importance of considering 
his own AtR when considering the actions he should take in response to the email. And the 
email also included the option for him to do nothing  but he didnt choose that option. I 
think this was indicative that he wanted to take some action to protect his investments at a 
time of uncertainty.
Mr Bs wife responded to the email the same day and arranged a telephone meeting which 
was attended by both Mr B and his wife the following day. During that meeting there was 
discussion about the steps that should be taken to restructure Mr Bs funds. And, having 
considered the decisions that were made, its clear Mr B was fully engaged in the decision 
making and expressed his own preferences about what should happen. 
The course of action agreed was different to any of the options set out in the advisers email 
of 8 April. Mr B decided to only restructure part of the funds and leave the rest as they were. 
He says he didnt want to concentrate all his equity exposure into one particular sector and 
that was why he retained some of his existing funds. So the actions taken were reflective of 
Mr Bs personal circumstances, his own preferences  which wouldve included his AtR  
and which appear to have been grounded on a reasonable amount of knowledge. 
As mentioned above the email of 8 April had stated that the choice which a client might want 
to make would be reflective of the risk they were prepared to take.
Mr B says he didnt know the risk tolerance thatd been recorded for him in 2016 and he 
wasnt provided with a copy of the Risk Profiling Report, which recorded his AtR as 7 (on a 
scale of 1-10 where 10 is the highest risk profile). Mr B also says he thinks the AtR recorded 
was slightly higher than he would have expected.
Although Mr B doesnt recollect getting a copy of this document when it was originally 
produced, I think its likely, on balance, it wouldve been discussed with him. It would be 
unusual for Vision to have completed this report if it hadnt then discussed it with him. As Ive 
mentioned above, the client agreement didnt require Vision to initiate client reviews and I 
think that may explain why the Risk Profiling Report wasnt subsequently updated. 
Im also satisfied that Mr B wouldve been aware from reading the email of 8 April 2020, that 
the changes would have resulted in a reduction in the overall risk rating for his portfolio. And I think Mr B was willing to reduce some risk to meet the overall short term objective 
(protecting the investment during a period of uncertainty) which the adviser had set out in his 
email and which Mr B evidently agreed with.
So, having considered everything, whilst it would be preferable to have seen detailed notes 
about the discussions that took place, Im satisfied on the balance of probability that the 
adviser acted in a fair and reasonable manner in April 2020. He responded to events in the 
market and provided options to navigate through an uncertain economic period. It was made 
clear that those options were only intended to be short-term in nature. And its evident that 
Mr B was similarly minded to make changes to his portfolio and was aware of the actions he 
was taking, including the fact that his portfolio was becoming less risky.
November 2020
In November 2020, Mr B became concerned about how the restructured funds were 
performing. He contacted Vision at that time and there was further discussion. There arent 
any notes of this meeting  although the adviser has provided a statement of his recollection 
of what was discussed.
I can see that the meeting in November was initiated by Mr B. The adviser had indicated in 
April that the next review should be slightly later than that. Mr B pre-empted that because he 
had been monitoring performance of his funds and was concerned that the restructured 
funds had not been performing to the level he wanted. Because of that I think Mr B wanted 
to revert back to something similar, from an overall risk perspective, to what hed held prior 
to April 2020. Thats why he initiated the meeting before the scheduled review date. 
As Ive mentioned above, the lack of written documentation makes it very difficult to gauge 
exactly what was discussed. But its clear that the strategy put in place in April was always 
designed to be short-term. And its also the case that by November, Mr B himself wanted to 
reverse his earlier decision to invest in lower risk funds and revert back to what hed held 
previously.
Although Mr B now thinks, with the benefit of hindsight, he would have been better off if hed 
made different decisions, Im not persuaded on balance, given the clear parameters of what 
he himself wanted to achieve, that its fair and reasonable to say that Vision should be liable 
for any losses he says he incurred as a result of the decisions he made in April and 
November 2020.
Having considered everything here, I agree with our investigator that the advice given to 
Mr B in April was reasonable in all the circumstances. Im also satisfied, on balance, that 
Vision acted fairly and reasonably in November when it responded to Mr Bs concerns about 
returns on his investments. Taking all the circumstances into account, Ive decided that I 
dont require Vision to have to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, about 
Vision Financial Strategies Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman