DRN-3580726
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way National Westminster Bank Plc have treated them at 
the end of their mortgage term.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have an interest only mortgage with NatWest that expired in 2018. Since then, 
NatWest have granted short term extensions to allow more time for Mr and Mrs H to redeem 
the mortgage, the last of which ended in October 2021.
In January 2021 Mr and Mrs H asked NatWest to extend the mortgage further to allow them 
more time to redeem the mortgage. They asked for a reasonable period of time, and 
suggested ten years from the original term end date would be appropriate given that 
NatWest had said they could extend mortgages for that period if the mortgage was switched 
to repayment. Mr and Mrs H could not afford to switch their mortgage to repayment but felt 
they should be entitled to the same period of time to redeem the mortgage as those who 
could switch. They explained that they felt NatWest had applied their policies unfairly to their 
situation, and hadnt considered their vulnerabilities, and their ages, when refusing to extend 
any further.
They also raised their dissatisfaction with the initial lending of the mortgage, but that had 
already been dealt with under a previous complaint and our service has already issued a 
final decision on that matter.
NatWest issued a final response letter. They said that whilst they do have policies in place 
that apply to Mr and Mrs Hs situation, where customers are in a vulnerable situation they will 
look for options to assist them where possible. They said theyd agreed in principle to extend 
the term of the mortgage until 31 October 2021 but would need to speak to Mr and Mrs H 
first to put that in place. 
Mr and Mrs H responded as they were dissatisfied with NatWests response. They still 
disagreed that the mortgage had been lent to them responsibly in the first place, and they 
wanted an extension of the term to allow them more time to redeem the mortgage. They 
were also unhappy that NatWest hadnt answered specific questions theyd asked them 
about the initial lending, and also their policies. 
Mr and Mrs H explained the details of their medical conditions and how theyd been 
impacted by them. They also explained that at that time, they had no way to repay the 
mortgage balance other than to sell their home. They had private pensions but they would 
only have covered 50% of the balance, and Mr H was expecting some money following a 
court case but that wasnt guaranteed.
NatWest responded but didnt change their position. 
Mr and Mrs H asked our service to consider their complaint. Our Investigator looked into 
things and explained that our service wouldnt comment on Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about 
the sale of the mortgage, as wed considered that already. She said in respect of Mr and 
Mrs Hs concerns about how theyd been treated more recently, whilst she empathised with 
their circumstances, she didnt think NatWest had acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed, and remained unhappy that their questions were still unanswered. 
So the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I appreciate Mr and Mrs H have gone into great detail in their submissions about their 
circumstances, and the nature of their complaint. Whilst Ive only summarised whats 
happened above, I want to assure them that Ive carefully considered everything theyve told 
us before reaching this decision. Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
A lot of Mr and Mrs Hs concerns stem from the fact that they dont believe this mortgage 
should have been lent to them in the first place, as they had no way to repay it at the end of 
the term. Both NatWest and our service have already considered a complaint about the sale 
of the mortgage, and an Ombudsman issued a final decision which concluded that the 
mortgage was not mis-sold. As our service has already dealt with that matter, we wont look 
at it again. Mr and Mrs H are also unhappy that NatWest have not answered their more 
recent questions about how the mortgage was approved, considering the policies they have 
in place. Again  as those questions relate to the way in which the mortgage was initially 
sold, I wont comment on that any further.
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage term ended in 2018, but unfortunately, theyve suffered with 
serious medical conditions and difficulties since then which has made it hard for them to sort 
out the redemption of the mortgage. NatWest took account of their circumstances at the 
time, and provided them with more time to redeem the mortgage  ultimately until October 
2021.
Mr and Mrs H are still not in a position to redeem the mortgage by any other means other 
than to sell the property and downsize. But they dont want to have to do that yet, and have 
said it will take them some time to sort out their affairs and get everything sorted. They also 
dont think they should have to redeem the mortgage yet out of principle. Theyre unhappy 
that NatWest would have allowed them to extend the mortgage on a repayment basis for 
longer, but wont give them the same time on an interest only basis. They think thats unfair 
as theyre being treated differently to those who can afford to switch to repayment, when 
they cant. 
Mr and Mrs H have asked NatWest specific questions about the fairness of this policy and 
are unhappy they havent received a response. Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs 
frustration, I think NatWest have responded to their individual concerns about their own 
mortgage, and the way theyre being treated now the term extensions have ended. I dont 
think its unreasonable that NatWest havent provided information to Mr and Mrs H about 
how they set their lending policies, or the overall fairness of them. Its not our role at this 
service to comment on that either. Our role is to consider how NatWest have treated Mr and 
Mrs H in respect of their individual circumstances. So that is what Ive done.
Whilst Mr and Mrs H have said that they are owed money from past business affairs which 
could pay off the mortgage completely, theyve acknowledged themselves that money is not 
guaranteed and theyre not relying on it as a way to repay the mortgage. The only way they 
will be able to redeem the mortgage in full is by selling the property and downsizing, or by 
taking out an equity release product. Mr and Mrs H have said they dont want to take out an 
equity release product, and would only do so as a last resort. 
Mr and Mrs H say that if NatWest could extend the mortgage to 2028, that would allow them 
enough time to sort out their affairs, find a suitable property to downsize to, and sell their 
existing home. Theyve said that they think selling their home as it is will take around two 
years as theyve a lot of things to sort out. Theyve also said that, given their ages, in the 
event that theyre no longer around in 2028 their children will either take over the mortgage or sell the property to redeem it. They dont see theres a risk to NatWest of them not getting 
their money back.
When Mr and Mrs H took out this mortgage, they agreed to repay the full balance in 2018. 
They havent been able to do that yet, as their personal circumstances, along with the more 
recent impact of the pandemic, havent given them the time to sort out and sell the property. 
Whilst I do empathise with Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances, I think NatWest have acted 
reasonably by allowing the additional time that they have for the mortgage to be redeemed. 
And I dont think theyve unfairly declined Mr and Mrs Hs request for more time.
Mr and Mrs H told NatWest in 2018 that they were going to sell the property and downsize, 
and thats the basis on which NatWest allowed the term extensions  to give them time to do 
that. For several reasons, many of which have been outside of Mr and Mrs Hs control, they 
havent yet been able to do that. I dont think it would be in Mr and Mrs Hs best interests to 
extend the term for the (now) further six years theyve asked for. 
Mr and Mrs H have told both our service and NatWest how difficult things are for them as a 
result of their medical conditions and their ages. So I dont think it would be in their best 
interests to delay the difficult tasks of sorting out their affairs and moving house for another 
six years. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H have said that NatWest will get their money back 
one way or another  as their children can settle matters in the event that their 
circumstances deteriorate more quickly, but Mr and Mrs H agreed to repay this mortgage in 
full by 2018. That was four years ago, and I dont think its reasonable to expect NatWest to 
keep extending the expected repayment date any further. This is not a lifetime mortgage.
If Mr and Mrs H feel unable to move, they do have the option of exploring the equity release 
market. Theyve made it clear theyd rather not do that, but they will need to make a choice 
about what is most important to them. They may want to seek independent financial advice 
so that theyre clear about all of their options and the impact their choices would have.
Overall, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H, I think NatWest 
have treated them fairly by allowing them more time to redeem the mortgage, and I dont 
think it would be in their best interests for NatWest to extend the term further until 2028.
Both parties will now need to engage with each other about an appropriate way forward for 
the mortgage to be repaid. 
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman