DRN-1650395
The complaint
Ms S has complained about Aviva Health UK Limiteds decision to increase the cost of her 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S held a private medical insurance policy with Aviva.
In January 2019, Ms S suffered a knee injury. Aviva authorised her to undergo an MRI scan 
and to see two consultants. Both consultants confirmed that she had torn her ACL and 
advised that she should undergo surgery to repair this.
In June 2019, Aviva invited Ms S to renew her policy. The renewal premium was nearly 60% 
higher than the previous years premium. Ms S agreed to renew the policy. She considered 
the increase in the premium was because Aviva believed she was likely to claim for knee 
surgery in the next twelve months.
Ms S chose not to undergo surgery as she believed it was unnecessary and that the injury 
would heal. In October 2019, she underwent another MRI scan which showed the ACL had 
completely healed. In November 2019, her treating consultant (one of the consultants she 
had seen previously but who was now treating her through the NHS) wrote to her confirming 
that this was the case and discharging her from his care.
Ms S presented Aviva with her consultants letter and asked it to review her premium in light 
of this.
Aviva wouldnt change the premium. Ms S therefore referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Aviva had calculated Ms Ss premium fairly and that it had not been based in any way 
on the expectation that she would undergo future knee surgery.
Ms S didnt accept the investigators findings. She considered the premium increase was 
excessive and she provided a letter from her broker supporting this opinion. She considered 
an increase of 20-25% would have been more appropriate. She considered it was unfair that 
Aviva would not reduce the premium given that her knee issue had resolved without the 
need for surgery.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided it exercises this judgement fairly and consistently, in accordance with its 
internal guidelines, it is a matter in which we wouldnt normally interfere.
In this case, Aviva has provided us with evidence of how it calculated Ms Ss premium. 
I cant fully share this information with Ms S because it is commercially sensitive. However, I 
can assure her that I have checked the figures and am satisfied it calculated her premium 
accurately and fairly.
Although I cant share all the information, I can confirm to Ms S that the majority of the 
overall 58% increase in her premium was accounted for by the reduction in her no claims 
discount (NCD). As explained in the policy terms and conditions, because she made claims 
exceeding £250 in the previous year, her NCD fell three levels from 72% to 63%. This 
means she has gone from paying 28% of the full premium to 37% of the full premium, which 
equates to an increase of 32%.
I can also confirm to Ms S that the increase was not based in any way on the expectation 
that she might need to undergo knee surgery. The only way that her knee injury impacted on 
the premium was in respect of the impact of her previous claims on her NCD, as outlined 
above. I therefore consider it was reasonable for Aviva to refuse to amend the premium after 
being made aware that Ms S no longer needed knee surgery.
I recognise that Ms S will have been disappointed at being charged such a significant 
increase in her premium. However, based on the evidence it has provided, Im satisfied that 
Aviva has acted fairly and has charged her the same as anyone else in her position; it wasnt 
anything to do with the fact she seemed likely to need knee surgery in the next twelve 
months. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman