DRN-3262667
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim 
under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs T held an annual travel insurance policy. The policy was sold through an 
independent broker and the insurance cover was provided by URV. 
Mr and Mrs T were due to travel to a country which Ill call A, via a country which Ill call S, 
departing on 24 February 2020. However, on 8 February 2020, Mr and Mrs T changed their 
travel arrangements in order to avoid staying in S. Mr and Mrs T say this decision was based 
on the advice of the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-
19.
On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists who were abroad to return to the 
UK because of the global pandemic.
When Mr and Mrs T arrived at the airport in A for their return journey back to the UK on 24 
March 2020, they were denied boarding because of transit restrictions. After attempting to 
arrange a number of alternative return flights, Mr and Mrs T returned to the UK a few days 
after their original intended return date. 
Mr and Mrs T made a claim under their policy with URV for the cost of their unused 
accommodation in S, as well as the additional flights theyd purchased, less the refund 
theyd already received from their airline for their original return flights. 
URV said Mr and Mrs Ts claim wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy 
and gave a variety of reasons as to why this was. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs T complained to 
URV before bringing the matter to the attention of our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said she didnt think URV had unfairly 
declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our investigators opinions, so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all the information provided by both parties, to reach an independent and 
impartial decision about Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Mr and Mrs T have provided detailed 
submissions about their complaint. While Ive read everything that has been provided, I dont 
intend to address every individual complaint point raised  nor am I obliged to. Instead, Ill 
address what I think are the key arguments. 
Mr and Mrs T purchased their policy through an independent broker. But, the contract of 
insurance they entered into is with URV. URV, as the underwriter (provider) of the insurance 
policy is the business responsible for assessing Mr and Mrs Ts claim. So, this complaint has 
been set up against URV and Ill only be addressing what URV is responsible for within this 
decision. 
The broker who Mr and Mrs T purchased this policy from is an independent business, 
separate and distinct from URV. URV is not responsible for the actions of the broker, and 
vice versa. If Mr and Mrs T have a complaint about the way this policy was sold to them, or 
about the brokers failure to respond to any query about whether their cover could be 
extended while they were abroad, theyd need to raise this with the broker directly in the first 
instance before bringing a complaint about the broker to the attention of our service. 
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say an insurer 
must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules 
and guidance into account when making my decision about Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ive 
also had regard to the law, but this is just one of the considerations which is relevant to Mr 
and Mrs Ts complaint under our rules. My over-riding remit is to make a decision based on 
what I think is fair and reasonable to both parties in all the circumstances. 
I understand Mr and Mrs T found themselves in an unexpected and unprecedented situation 
which was outside of their control. However, this doesnt automatically mean that their claim 
is covered under their insurance policy. Insurance policies dont cover every situation, and 
an insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it is prepared to cover under a policy in 
return for the premium charged. Its not for me to tell an insurer what level of cover I think it 
should offer. Instead I need to decide whether I think URV fairly assessed Mr and Mrs Ts 
claim under the terms and conditions of the policy they purchased. 
URVs obligations to Mr and Mrs T are set out in their policy documentation, which is the 
contract between URV and Mr and Mrs T. I understand Mr and Mrs T feel that URV hasnt 
pointed to a specific provision in the policy in explaining why their claim isnt covered  but 
URV dont necessarily need to do so, as thats not how insurance works. It wouldnt be 
possible or practical for an insurer to list every situation that it doesnt wish to provide cover 
for. Instead, the limits of the cover provided are set out as listed, insured events under each 
section of the policy. If the situation being claimed for isnt a listed, insured event then, 
generally, its not covered under the policy. For the avoidance of doubt, at the time Mr and 
Mrs T bought their cover, many travel insurance policies on the market were silent on 
whether a pandemic was covered  but I dont think the outcome of Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint turns on this point anyway. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts policy and I dont think theres any 
cover under any section of the policy for the circumstances they found themselves in. 
The part of their trip, to S, that was cancelled would fall for consideration under Policy A 
Section 1 (Your pre-travel policy  If you are unable to go on your trip). This provides for 
URV to pay for unused costs which cannot be recovered from any other source, if the claim 
arises for one of a list of specifically insured reasons. 
Ive been unable to find any evidence that the FCDO was advising against travel to S at the 
time Mr and Mrs T cancelled this part of their trip. Based on my research and my experience 
of dealing with travel insurance complaints of this type, the FCDO didnt advise against travel 
to S until 17 March 2020. So, Im satisfied, based on the information Ive seen, that the reason this part of the trip was cancelled was because of quarantine restrictions imposed by 
foreign governments in response to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. This isnt a 
listed, insured reason for a valid cancellation claim under Policy A Section 1 of the policy. 
Ive also considered whether this element of the claim would fairly be payable under any 
other section of the policy, but I dont think it would. While Policy B Section 6 (If a natural 
disaster occurs) provides cover for additional costs (but not unused costs) in certain 
circumstances, I note Mr and Mrs Ts policy contains the following exclusion:
any prohibitive regulations by Customs or other government officials or authorities 
of any country.
So, in any event, it seems to me that a claim under Policy B Section 6 which arose from 
quarantine requirements imposed by foreign governments could fairly be considered to fall 
under this policy exclusion. 
Ive moved on to consider Mr and Mrs Ts claim for their new return flights to the UK. I 
understand Mr and Mrs T say their original return flight was delayed and, therefore, their 
claim should be payable under Policy B Section 1 (Your travel policy  If your travel plans 
are disrupted). 
However, the departure of the flight which Mr and Mrs T were due to travel on wasnt 
delayed. The flight went ahead but Mr and Mrs T were refused boarding, which meant they 
had to book an alternative flight instead. In any event, this section of the policy only provides 
cover for outbound journeys. I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Ts submissions that a journey 
from any airport is always an outbound one. Ive taken into account the dictionary definition 
of the word outbound and the context in which this word is used in Mr and Mrs Ts policy, as 
well as industry practice. Im satisfied that the section of the policy which Mr and Mrs T have 
quoted only applies to outbound journeys from  and not inbound journeys to - the UK. 
Mr and Mrs Ts policy  in common with many standard travel insurance policies on the 
market at the time  simply didnt provide cover for additional costs incurred by the 
policyholder if a trip was extended beyond the original intended return date (other than in the 
event of certain medical emergencies). 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T. I understand they felt they had little alternative but to 
cancel their trip to S, and that they had no choice but to purchase new flights from A back to 
the UK. However, their claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy with 
URV and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV to 
accept their claim. 
It would have been helpful if URV had given Mr and Mrs T more accurate reasons as to why 
their claim wasnt covered under their policy from the outset, but this doesnt change my 
decision that I wont be asking URV to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman