DRN-3723260
The complaint
Mrs and Mr O complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums 
they paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs and Mr O purchased an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great 
Lakes. The policy was purchased on 31 January 2020, to cover any trips of up to 50 days 
duration taken within Europe. The policy started on 31 January 2020 and ended on 30 
January 2021. 
Mrs and Mr O paid £414.76 excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level of 
annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered them for a number of declared 
medical conditions. They also paid an additional premium of £36.65 (excluding IPT) for 
travel disruption extension cover. The cost of Mrs and Mr Os policy also included a discount 
of £51.64, which they received at the point of sale. In total, Mrs and Mr O paid £500.05 for 
their policy including IPT.
On 18 June 2020, Mrs and Mr O completed a policy cancellation form on Great Lakes 
website, which asked it to cancel their policy and send them a pro rata refund of their travel 
insurance premium. Mrs and Mr O said theyd requested a refund and policy cancelation as 
theyd been unable to travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
On 24 June 2020, Great Lakes informed Mrs and Mr O that a refund couldnt be provided as 
their cooling off period had expired and no refund was due. It also stated that they couldnt 
just have a voucher refund as theyd have to purchase a new policy to qualify for the 
voucher. It offered to apply a credit of £257.05 against a new policy and defer the start date.
Mrs and Mr O stated that they were quoted £423.36 for a new policy and that, after applying 
their credit, theyd still have to pay £166.31. They declined to purchase a new policy due to 
uncertainty over whether theyd be able to travel in the future and complained.
When Great Lakes issued its final response to Mrs and Mr Os complaint it confirmed that no 
refund was due. However, it stated it was prepared to resolve this complaint by offering a 
pro-rata voucher that could be used to purchase either a deferred annual policy, a new 
policy of 15 months for the price of 12 or a UK only annual multi trip policy in the alternative. 
But Mrs and Mr O werent happy with Great Lakes offer and complained to our service.
Mrs and Mr Os complaint was considered by our investigator, who acknowledged the 
unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That 
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 31 January 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. They didnt think Great Lakes had made an 
error in declining to issue a full refund. But they didnt think it had calculated the pro rata 
refund fairly and asked it to recalculate the refund due to Mrs and Mr O.
Great Lakes agreed to recalculate its refund voucher in line with our investigators 
recommendation and it confirmed its agreement with how our investigator thought this 
complaint should be resolved. But Mrs and Mr O didnt agree and requested an 
ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
Mrs and Mr O have made our service aware of how other insurers have dealt with travel 
insurance refund requests. But this service considers complaints on an individual basis. So, 
its not our role to comment on the wider industry issues Mrs and Mr O have raised.  
The terms and conditions that apply to Mrs and Mr Os policy with Great Lakes state: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as a 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Where a policy is cancelled outside the cooling off period theres no requirement under the 
relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. I say this because its 
a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
In this case, Mrs and Mr Os cooling-off period ended on 14 February 2020. But their first 
contact with Great Lakes about cancellation wasnt until 18 June 2020. So, Im satisfied the 
cancellation request was made outside the 14-day cooling-off period. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to 
pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended except 
in exceptional circumstances when discretion will be used. The examples of exceptional 
circumstances identified in the policy are specific to the individual policyholder, such as 
bereavement or changes to their health. They dont extend to cancellation as a result of 
the Covid-19 pandemic.
I understand that the pandemic prevented Mrs and Mr O from travelling as they intended; 
theyve told our service two holidays were cancelled due to the pandemic and that this was 
outside of their control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask 
Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr Os 
contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was unanticipated and unforeseen, and this was outside of the control of both 
parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mrs and Mr Os contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under their policy commenced on 
31 January 2020. 
Mrs and Mr O were insured from 31 January 2020, for travelling on any number of trips that 
they may have taken within Europe of up to 35 days, until they cancelled their policy. 
Theyve said they were prevented from travelling due to the pandemic. But because of the 
way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many 
trips have been taken since the policy was incepted. 
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mrs and Mr O for cancellation of any holidays which 
they may have had booked and were due to take from 31 January 2020 until 30 January 
2021. So, they would have been covered if theyd had to cancel any number of holidays 
because of any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, them falling ill 
with their declared pre-existing medical conditions. And its a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however 
short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mrs and Mr Os 
cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain the premiums relating to the 
risk it covered.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mrs and Mr O contacted Great Lakes on 
18 May 2020 to request a pro rata refund and the cancellation of their policy. By this point, 
there was still 227 days left to run on the policy before it expired. 
When Great Lakes initially calculated the voucher refund, this was based on it removing the 
discount Mrs and Mr O received at the end of the calculation. This gave a refund figure of 
just over £257.05 and I dont think calculating the refund in this way was fair and reasonable.
I can also see that when Great Lakes calculated the refund it offered Mrs and Mr O it didnt 
include any refund for the additional cover theyd purchased. Mrs and Mr O paid for optional 
travel disruption extension cover, which included extended cancellation benefits as well as 
extended curtailment, travel delay and enforced stay benefits. But Great Lakes was no 
longer covering the risk of a claim under the optional travel disruption extension cover from 
18 June 2020. So, it would be fair and reasonable for Mrs and Mr O to receive a pro-rata 
refund of the premium they paid for this cover.
After this complaint was referred to our service Great Lakes recalculated the refund it offered 
based on our investigators recommended resolution. This has led to the offer increasing to 
£310.14. Having carefully considered the revised calculation, Im satisfied Great Lakes has 
now calculated the refund by dividing the price Mrs and Mr O actually paid for their policy by 
the total cover length (366 days). It has then multiplied that value by the days Mrs and Mr O 
werent on risk (277 days). In doing so, Great Lakes refund now takes into account the 
unused days of policy cover and the unused travel disruption extension cover. This is an 
approach that our service would endorse and I think the refund amount now offered is fair 
and reasonable.
Great Lakes has maintained its refund offer is by way of credit voucher only. And our 
investigator has confirmed with Great Lakes that the voucher is valid for 12 months and can 
be transferred to Mrs and Mr Os relatives or friends if they dont wish to use it. The voucher 
can either be used to purchase a future annual or single trip travel insurance policy. This 
isnt unreasonably restrictive.
I can see that Mr and Mrs O have told our investigator that theyd prefer to receive a cash 
refund as they have no plans to travel due to their health. Theyve been asked to provide 
evidence showing how their health may preclude future travel. But I havent seen any 
documentation showing that theyve suffered deterioration in their health conditions such that this might make future travel not possible. And I can see that they were prepared to travel in 
January 2020 with the health conditions they declared to Great Lakes.
Based on the available evidence, there arent any exceptional circumstances that persuade 
me that Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund. And, in the overall 
circumstances, I think a refund by way of voucher is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Great Lakes should issue Mrs and Mr O with a voucher for 
£310.14 for the reasons outlined above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve matters, Great Lakes 
Insurance SE should put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman