DRN-1847103
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, have rejected a claim 
he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) and have 
also rejected a chargeback.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
section 75 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr J made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Theres no dispute that the airline here breached its contract with Mr J as they themselves 
didnt provide a return flight. 
But the return flight was provided through the Civil Aviation Authority with whom the airline 
had been affiliated. I think its fair to say that it was that affiliation, for which the airline will 
have paid fees, that funded the return flight on the same day and from the same airport.
So, I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest that Barclaycard need to refund the flight 
cost as it appears the contract was met albeit by different means, and Mr J has explained he 
wasnt left out of pocket.
chargeback
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
What this means here is that Barclaycard can in some circumstances ask for a transaction to 
be reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant. 
But the chargeback process doesnt give consumers legal rights and it isnt guaranteed to 
result in a refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response to the request the 
bank submits. 
There first has to be a right to apply for a chargeback under the card scheme rules. And Id 
consider it to be good practice for Barclaycard to raise a chargeback if it would have a good 
chance of being successful. 
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme's rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. So, its not for Barclaycard  or me  to 
decide whether Mr J should be given his money back under a chargeback. Barclaycards 
role is to raise the appropriate chargeback and consider whether any filed defence complies 
with the relevant chargeback rules. From what Ive seen, thats what Barclaycard did here.
The merchant disputed the chargeback and where thats the case a bank doesnt have to 
carry out a detailed investigation into what actually happened to decide which party deserves 
the money. In fact, most banks wont take a chargeback any further if its defended and 
thats what Barclaycard did here so I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest they did 
anything wrong.
Overall, I can see that Barclaycard provided a £50 payment in relation to the delays Mr J 
experienced in the processing of his complaint. That seems fair and, having reviewed the 
evidence, I dont think they need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman