DRN-1563310
 
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the service given to him by Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV) when he asked it to attend to his car under the terms of his 
breakdown recovery policy.
All references to LV include its agents.
What happened
Mr A has a breakdown recovery policy as a benefit of his bank account. He says his car was 
SORN and parked on his forecourt while he was abroad for a couple of months. On his 
return, he paid the road tax for 6 months. And then he discovered his car wouldnt start - the 
battery was flat. So he phoned LV for assistance. But LV refused to attend. It said the car 
wasn't covered because it couldnt verify that it was taxed.
Mr A told the call handler that the car had been taxed earlier that morning - around 40 
minutes before - using the automated DVLA service. And itd been SORN before this. Mr A 
gave the call handler a reference number but LV wasnt able to check this as it was the 
DVLAs payment reference. Mr A didnt have any other way of proving to LV that his car was 
taxed and he wasnt able to reach the DVLA as they were closed. So LV says the call 
handler checked whether the car had tax on the governments website and it didnt confirm 
this either. So LV didnt come out to Mr A.
LV says that Mr A spoke to a number of its claim handlers and a team manager who 
explained that, if he could prove that his car had valid road tax, itd arrange assistance. And 
the next day, this is what happened. 
Mr A complained to LV about this and was also unhappy with the service hed been given. 
LV thought it had dealt with Mr A fairly and didnt uphold his complaint. It has explained to 
our service that there are some instances where a vehicle covered by the policy wouldnt 
require this evidence, such as where the vehicle is exempt from needing a MOT or tax. And, 
by starting the vehicle for Mr A, LV wouldve enabled him to drive his car on a public highway 
when it didnt know if it had road tax. However, as a gesture of goodwill, LV offered to cover 
his travel expenses for 10 March of £17.50, subject to him sending receipts to it.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. He made a number of points to our service including the 
following:
road tax shouldnt be an issue as the car was on his driveway and not on the road.
the car was taxed when he called LV and he proved this by giving it the DVLAs 
reference. It isnt his fault of the DVLA takes time to update its records.
LV unreasonably denied him a service which hes paid for. 
 
Our investigator looked into matters and didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He felt it was 
reasonable that LV wanted confirmation the car had tax before giving assistance. Particularly in circumstances where it gave assistance to Mr A the next day, and the same day it was 
given evidence of tax.
In terms of the service given to Mr A, our investigator thought LV had responded fairly, and 
gave Mr A factual information. Whilst he thought there were occasions where more empathy 
and patience couldve been displayed, he didnt feel this meant he could reasonably ask LV 
to pay Mr A compensation. Finally, our investigator agreed with LV that itd reimburse the 
£17.50 without the need for any receipts from Mr A. 
Mr A disagreed. This matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr A that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. I think the investigator has explained 
matters clearly and thoroughly so theres very little for me to add. I would just make the 
following comments.
Ive considered the policys terms and conditions which sets out the agreement between LV 
and Mr A. These set out that cover is for,
Vehicles which are in a roadworthy condition and which are serviced and maintained 
in line with manufacturer guidelines and which meet all legal regulations, including if 
appropriate, having an MOT certificate and any applicable vehicle tax we may ask 
for proof in the event of a dispute.
Mr As car wasnt tax exempt and so he was required to tax it under the terms of the policy in 
order to benefit from cover. 
Whilst I accept that Mr A had actually taxed the car shortly before calling LV for assistance, 
he wasnt able to prove this at the time of his call to it. The terms and conditions of the policy 
allow LV to require proof of tax before giving roadside assistance. So I dont think LV 
requesting evidence of this was unreasonable in these particular circumstances. And I dont 
agree that the reference for Mr As payment to the DVLA is the same as proof his car had 
been taxed. 
LV also searched the publicly available records but it showed that Mr As car wasnt taxed. 
Whilst the time it takes the DVLA to update the government records isnt Mr As fault, it 
wouldnt be fair to say that its LVs fault either. And the DVLA does state that it can take a 
number of days for its records to be updated. So I think LV acted reasonably in relying on 
this search when Mr A wasnt able to give it any evidence it could verify. 
Taking everything into account, I think LV acted reasonably in asking for evidence that the 
car was taxed and, when this wasnt available, in declining to provide assistance on 10 
March.I note Mr A says its unfair for LV to expect his car to be taxed as his car was parked on his 
property and not on the road. But its clear from what Mr A has said to our service that his 
intention was to drive his car off his property - if hed been able to start it - so I dont think this 
was an unreasonable point for LV to check.
Finally, in terms of the customer service given to Mr A, I agree with our investigator so I 
havent upheld this part of his complaint. 
I understand Mr A feels very strongly about this matter. What Ive looked at is whether LV 
has followed the policy terms and acted fairly and reasonably when deciding to wait for 
evidence the car was taxed before providing assistance. And Im satisfied it did. So I wont 
be asking LV to do anything further in relation to this matter. Even so, I think its important to 
mention that LV did immediately provide assistance when it was given evidence of road tax 
the next day. And it has offered £17.50 to Mr A to cover his out of pocket expenses on 10 
March.   
I know Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with LV  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman