DRN-3475293
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) refused to pay all of the 
professional fees they incurred, and they complain about the service provided regarding 
alternative accommodation when they claimed under their policy for subsidence.
The policy was in joint names and their representative, who Ill call Mr R, brought the 
complaint to our service on their behalf.
What happened
Briefly, Zurich accepted Mr and Mrs Ms claim under their buildings insurance policy for 
subsidence affecting their business and residential properties.
They appointed a Chartered Surveyor, Mr R, to act on their behalf and the contract they had 
with Mr R included payment of professional fees. When settling the claim, Zurich refused to 
pay the fees at the percentage set out in the contract because it considered them excessive. 
Instead, it offered a percentage slightly higher than the standard industry rate. 
Mr and Mrs M also complained that Zurich wouldnt pay them the alternative accommodation 
costs provided for under their policy. Zurich said they didnt incur any additional costs, so 
payment wouldve been putting them in a better position than before the claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint for the following 
reasons.
Alternative accommodation
Mr M complains that Zurich didnt offer him the 25% cash settlement stipulated in his policy 
in place of alternative accommodation. Zurich acknowledged that it used the incorrect policy 
wording and didnt make Mr M aware of this option.
The policy states:
accommodation and loss of rent
In the event of any damage resulting in a residential premises or residential portion 
of a commercial premises being uninhabitable Section A includes for each 
dwelling either:

b) the reasonable additional cost of comparable accommodation incurred by the 
lessee or owner for any resident including pets which normally live in the building
c) a cash allowance not exceeding 25% of the amount payable under b) above until 
the said property is habitable or accessible.
Im satisfied that Mr M and Mrs M werent disadvantaged by Zurichs error because:
Zurich paid for hotel accommodation on the few occasions Mr M required it, 
satisfying the policy condition.
Although Mr R said he sourced rental accommodation for Mr M, theres no evidence 
that Mr M took out a tenancy agreement or moved into rental accommodation.
Theres no evidence that Mr M incurred additional costs for alternative 
accommodation  Mr M made Zurich aware he had another, permanent place of 
residence.
As Mr and Mrs M didnt incur additional accommodation costs above those paid by Zurich, 
theres no evidence of a further amount payable under the policy. Therefore, I cant 
reasonably say that Zurich unfairly declined Mr and Mrs Ms request for a cash settlement 
under the policy terms and conditions. 
Professional Fees
Mr and Mrs M signed a mandate with Mr R agreeing to pay professional fees at 15% of the 
claim value. Mr R said that was the percentage he usually agreed with Zurich. However, 
Zurich refused to pay 15%, instead offering to pay 12.5%, which was more than it would 
usually pay. Zurich pointed out that the fees had not been agreed with it before Mr M and Mr 
R signed the fees mandate.
Looking at the evidence, I see that the mandate makes the following clear:
Please note professional fees should be recoverable from the insurers as long as 
they are deemed to be fair and reasonable as defined within your policy documents
Ive considered the policy documents, which say:
a) The insurance on buildings and landlords contents includes an amount in respect 
of architects, surveyors, legal and consulting engineers fees (Fees).
b) The insurance on fees applies only to those necessarily and reasonably incurred 
in the reinstatement or repair of property insured consequent upon its damage but 
not for preparing any claim 
While fees are covered, the policy does not define what Zurich considers might be fair and 
reasonable professional fees.Looking back at the mandate it says:
Confirmation that professional fees will be covered under the insured peril will need 
to be confirmed by the insurers via the appointed loss adjusters. If acceptance is not 
approved by the insurers the liability of our fees rest with the signed mandated 
person or persons
I havent seen any evidence to show that Zurich agreed to fees at the rate agreed between 
Mr R and Mr M.
So, in the absence of any evidence to demonstrate that Zurich agreed to pay 15%, or that its 
offer to pay 12.5% of the professional fees was unreasonable, I have no reason to conclude 
that Zurich acted unfairly when it refused to pay the rate agreed between Mr M and Mr R.
I wont be asking Zurich to increase its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman