DRN-1868323
 
The complaint
Mr B feels that Virgin Money Plc has treated him unfairly in relation to a purchase on his 
credit card for some bespoke photo frames.
What happened
Mr B bought some photo frames through a website from a supplier of such frames. There 
are two key areas of his complaint. Firstly how Virgin treated the transaction itself on his 
account and what it told him at the time. The second element of his complaint is about how 
Virgin treated him about the dispute he had regarding the photo frames as Mr B says they 
werent delivered to the agreed specifications.
Mr B complained to Virgin who dealt with the above issues in two separate complaints as 
these matters happened over a period of time. Virgin has agreed to this service considering 
all of these issues together.
Essentially there were issues regarding Mr Bs statement and what he owed it. He spoke to 
Virgin at that time and it accepts it didnt deal with that call well. Virgin summarised the 
matter in its letter of October 2019 by saying there was incorrect information provided, the 
missed opportunities to clearly explain the chargeback process in full and our inability to 
explain your statement, we have let you down.  It goes on to say that to rectify this overall 
experience it had credited £100 to Mr Bs account.
Virgin later told Mr B that its attempt to challenge the transaction with the website had come 
to an end. In Virgins letter of January 2020 it accepts that it could have done better. Virgin 
goes on to explain that it had credited a further £150 to Mr Bs account. But Mr B thought 
that considering the repeated failings and the significant sums in dispute this wasnt good 
enough, so he complained here.
Our investigator said that she thought that Virgin hadnt done anything wrong with regards to 
the dispute with the website. And that although there had been issues with how Mr B had 
been treated by Virgin she felt that the total remedy paid already of £250 was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Mr B doesnt agree, he says that ultimately the false 
information they provided resulted in a detrimental outcome. So, this complaint comes to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr B authorised the transaction which paid for the photo frames. 
And Mr B hasnt argued that it shouldnt have been applied to his account at the time of the 
transaction. Bearing in mind the evidence here, Im satisfied that Virgin hasnt done anything 
wrong in applying the transaction to his account initially. It is clear that there were issues 
around customer service at the time and how his statement appeared, but Im satisfied Mr B 
hasnt paid more to his account overall than he should have done. I will return to the 
customer service issue here later in my decision.
Having decided the transaction payment by Virgin is fair there are two possible avenues for 
this complaint to follow, namely a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 or 
via the credit card chargeback process which is under the chargeback scheme rules 
administered by the card scheme provider (not Virgin).
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr B has a claim for material misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, he can also bring that claim 
against the credit provider (Virgin here) provided certain conditions are met. Virgin says the 
relationship between the parties here doesnt fit that relationship required by the Act. So it 
says Section 75 doesnt apply.
Mr B paid a website for the photo frames by using his credit card. The website then paid the 
supplier to provide the frames to Mr B. Virgin in this case is the creditor. The Act requires 
there to be a clear three-way relationship between the debtor (Mr B), the creditor (Virgin) and 
the supplier. But this isnt the case here as the website is the party that Mr B paid but it isnt 
the supplier of the goods-it paid another party to do this. So I think Virgin makes a valid 
argument here and Im satisfied that Section 75 doesnt apply here due to the three-party link 
required not being fulfilled. So Mr B cant make his claim against Virgin for the frames under 
Section 75.
Chargeback
The chargeback process is administered by the scheme provider (not Virgin) and provides a 
process for banks and credit card companies to recover funds for its account holders in 
certain situations. Broadly speaking banks should decide whether to make a chargeback or 
not. But wed generally consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where 
there was a reasonable prospect of success. If they do, then they must do so fairly. The 
seller then receives that chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may 
contest the chargeback. If it contests, then the bank (Virgin here) should consider this and 
then if it still feels the chargeback is warranted then it can take the chargeback further and 
ultimately to the scheme provider for an independent review. This is a voluntary scheme and 
consumers dont have an automatic right to a chargeback. And importantly even if the firm 
(Virgin here) take the process as far as it can it is the scheme provider who makes the final 
arbitration on the matter.
In this case Mr B tried to fix the issue with the frame supplier but without success. So he took 
the complaint to the website which is in effect a wholesale trader platform. The website 
decided that to take the matter forward there needed to be an inspection of the goods 
provided and this may have meant significant cost arising for the inspection. Mr B didnt take 
this any further with the website.
Mr B asked Virgin to challenge the transaction. Virgin raised the chargeback when he asked 
and did so as it should. The website responded defending the transaction and saying it 
wouldnt refund it. Virgin considered this and decided not to take the matter further in the 
chargeback process as it considered there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success. Its 
important to note that Virgin arent obliged to take the matter forward. It should only take it 
forward if it considers that there is a reasonable prospect of success. And this isnt the same 
as no prospect of success or that it certainly would be successful. So Virgin has discretion 
here.
Having considered what we know of the dispute and the circumstances and the positions of 
the respective parties I do not consider Virgin has acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it 
has used its discretion here. I can see why it would think there wasnt a reasonable prospect 
of success-so I think it acted fairly by not continuing.Customer service
I now return to the customer service issues suffered here which Virgin has sought to remedy 
by paying Mr B £250. Mr B responded to the view of the investigator by saying that Virgins 
false information they provided resulted in a detrimental outcome. I dont agree.
The call Mr B had with Virgin where it misinformed him and contradicted itself was on 29 
September 2019. By this time hed already been in discussion with the supplier. Virgin 
apologised for this issue and had paid him £100 because of this in its letter to him dated 23 
October 2019. So at that point Mr B knew hed been misinformed and that the dispute 
(chargeback process) was ongoing. So he had opportunity at that stage to liaise further with 
Virgin or to talk again to the website or indeed the frame supplier.
Mr B then had a further opportunity to contest the matter when on 15 November 2019 Virgin 
wrote to him again explaining it wasnt taking the dispute further. In this letter it says If you 
have any additional information that you believe may affect our decision, please write to us 
at the address above providing details by 28/11/2019.
So it is clear that Mr B could then dispute further and be in time with regard to the 
chargeback process. As a consequence of this Im not persuaded Virgin misinforming him 
has led to any loss-because Mr B knew hed been misinformed and still had time and 
opportunity to act but didnt do so. Virgin isnt responsible for this decision not to take the 
matter forward once he knew hed been misinformed.
In short, Ive considered everything that Mr B has said. I appreciate how Mr B feels about the 
whole situation. However, I dont think what Virgin has done with regard to the Section 75 or 
the chargeback has meant that Mr B has been treated unfairly by it. And considering that 
Virgin has considered its mistakes and made clear to Mr B those mistakes in a timely fashion 
and compensated him a total of £250 for these issues I dont think it needs to do anything 
further on the matter. So this complaint doesnt succeed.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Virgin Money Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman