DRN-4261574
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that he was given unsuitable advice by Unbiased Financial Group LLP in 
relation to an equity release mortgage. Mr H says that he should have been advised to take 
out a cash reserve mortgage rather than a lump sum product. Mr H would like Unbiased to 
compensate him for his financial losses on redeeming the mortgage.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr H being identified. So for 
these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Briefly what happened is as follows. Mr H first took advice about equity release with 
Unbiased in 2019 but didnt go ahead at the time. In 2022 Mr H took advice from Unbiased 
again, following which he took out an equity release mortgage with a business I will refer to 
as CL. He borrowed £279,500 in a lump sum, at a fixed interest rate of 6.4%. 
The intention, as discussed with Unbiased, was that Mr H would use about £75,000 for 
home improvements and emergency funds, and invest the balance in order to provide him 
with additional income of £15,000 per annum. (Unbiased also provided investment advice for 
the balance, which Mr H ultimately didnt go ahead with, describing it as sketchy.)
As is common with an equity release mortgage, no monthly repayments are due; instead 
interest rolls up over the term of the mortgage. Mr H took independent legal advice before 
completing the mortgage on 16 November 2022. 
Almost immediately afterwards Mr H complained that the product wasnt suitable. He said 
hed received CLs brochure which referred to a cash reserve mortgage, which he thought 
would have been more suitable for him  but Unbiased had never mentioned this.
Unbiased didnt uphold the complaint. It said that a cash reserve would only have allowed 
Mr H to borrow £169,000. After the £75,000 earmarked by Mr H was deducted, if Mr H spent 
£15,000 a year, hed have run out of funds within six years.
In March 2023 Mr H redeemed the equity release mortgage, paying an early repayment 
charge (ERC) of just under £14,000. He complained to our service that the advice hed been 
given was unsuitable and that hed never been told about the cash reserve option, which he 
thought would have been more suitable for his needs. He also complained about the 
sketchy investment advice.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt uphold the complaint. He was 
satisfied that the recommendation for the lump sum was suitable for Mr Hs needs, and that 
a cash reserve would not have been appropriate in the circumstances. The investigator also 
found nothing wrong with the investment that Unbiased had recommended, but noted that 
Mr H hadnt gone ahead with it in any event.
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He reiterated that it should have 
been obvious that the cash reserve would save him interest, as well as commissions on 
proposed investments. Mr H also says that Unbiased should refund the ERC as he 
considers this to be a loss arising from the negligent advice he was given.
Mr H assessed his financial losses at £19,949.72, and wanted further damages to be 
assessed. Mr H also said that he was claiming £5,000 for distress and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The contemporaneous documents recorded that Mr Hs primary need was to generate stable 
income over a sustained period of time, and so the recommendation was for a lump sum for 
investment purposes in order to supplement Mr Hs pension income with an additional 
£15,000 per annum, generated from the investment as well as small withdrawals over time.
Im satisfied that the only way this level of income could have been achieved over a 
sustained term with would be by way of a lump sum drawdown, invested as suggested. 
Generally, across equity release providers, where borrowers want a cash reserve, the 
allowed loan-to-value ratio (LTV) and initial drawdown are much lower than for a lump sum 
drawdown (and are also dependent on the borrowers age and the value of the property). 
Indeed, that was the case with CL, which would only have allowed a 26% LTV for a cash 
reserve mortgage, rather than the 43% LTV for the lump sum drawdown Mr H took out. 
In addition, with a cash reserve mortgage, there is no guarantee that the lender would allow 
any future withdrawals and in any event, if agreed, they would be at the prevailing rate of 
interest, not that of the original drawdown. Given this, and noting that Mr H specifically 
needed the stability of generating income over a period of time, Im not persuaded Unbiased 
should have advised Mr H to take out a cash reserve mortgage. 
If Mr H had taken the maximum cash reserve and used the funds to supplement his income, 
hed have run out of money after six years, with no guarantee of any future borrowing. I 
would have considered that to have been unsuitable advice, given that Mr H needed to 
generate income over a much longer term.
Because a cash reserve mortgage would not have met Mr Hs needs (and would therefore 
have been unsuitable), I would not have expected Unbiased to advise Mr H about it. 
Unbiased was asked by Mr H to advise on the most suitable product, which it did. I can see 
that Unbiased considered other providers, but CL was able to release the maximum amount 
that Mr H needed.
It is, of course, is correct that the higher lump sum resulted in additional interest than if Mr H 
had taken the lower amount of £169,000 as a cash reserve. But that has to be balanced 
against the investment advice to generate long-term income for Mr H. The comprehensive 
and detailed investment recommendation was for a cautious portfolio, with regulated 
investment businesses. I therefore dont consider it to be sketchy, as Mr H has suggested. 
Ultimately Mr H didnt go ahead with the investment and so has suffered no loss as a result 
of the recommendation.In all the circumstances, I am satisfied the advice given by Unbiased was suitable. This 
means that I am not upholding the complaint.
 
I appreciate Mr H incurred expenses when he decided, after a very short time, that he didnt 
want the CL mortgage any more. But I cant hold Unbiased responsible for Mr Hs decision to 
redeem the mortgage so soon after hed taken it out, or for the cost to Mr H of doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman