DRN-2973743
The complaint
Mr H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) unfairly 
declined his pet insurance claim.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the background of this complaint, and so Ive only provided a 
summary of whats happened. 
Mr H has a pet insurance policy for his dog  who Ill refer to as V. 
The policy is underwritten by Red Sands.
It covers reasonable vetinary costs for treatment [] due to accident, illness or 
disease up to the maximum benefit limit. 
Cover is provided for 365 days from the date of occurrence, up to the amount 
specific in your policy limit.
In January 2019, Mr H took V to the vets for his annual vaccination. It was at this time 
the vet noted a 1cm cyst like structure on Vs back. 
The vet advised Mr H to monitor the cyst and to return if its appearance changed.
Mr H returned in January 2020. Vetinary notes state the lump on Vs back was 2cm. 
In January 2021, Mr H visited the vets for Vs annual vaccination. Vetinary notes 
state, the mass had grown slightly since last booster and that treatment options 
were discussed.  
Mr H contacted Red Sands to see if treatment for removing the mass would be 
covered. 
Red Sands said it wouldnt be because it had been more than 365 days since the 
condition first occurred. 
The mass was removed in April 2021. Mr H submitted a claim.
Red Sands considered it again but declined it for the same reason as before. 
It said Mr H needed to pay an additional cost for his premium as the vets records 
showed Vs weight and breed differed to the information it had been supplied with 
when the policy was taken out. 
Mr H paid the additional cost. He subsequently complained to this service. 
He said the lump removed in 2021 wasnt linked to the mass identified in 2019, so it 
was unfair for Red Sand to decline the claim. He said hed followed his vets advice 
to monitor it. And he didnt think it was reasonable for Red Sands to increase his 
premium.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She was satisfied the lump was the same 
as the one identified in January 2019. And that as the policy made it clear claims 
were time limited, she agreed Mr Hs had been made outside of the 365-day window. 
So, she said Red Sands hadnt treated Mr H unfairly in declining the claim.  
She explained that insurers are entitled to decide what risks they insure and so it 
wasnt unreasonable for it to change the premium upon receipt of the vetinary notes 
showing Vs increased weight and breed.
Mr H disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the requirements set by the Regulator, which include that 
insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably reject a claim. 
I have considered whether Red Sands dealt with the claim fairly and in line with the policy 
terms, and whether it unreasonably rejected the claim. Having done so, Im not upholding 
this complaint and Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. At the time the policy was taken out and in subsequent 
renewals, the policy stated:
Cover is provided for 365 days from the date of occurrence, up to the amount 
specified in your policy limit.
So, Im satisfied it was made clear to Mr H that he would have had 365 days to make a claim 
from when the mass in question was first identified. 
It follows that the next issue to determine is when the mass first occurred. Red Sands are 
satisfied it occurred in January 2019, whereas Mr H says the lump removed in April 2021, 
was a new one and unrelated. 
Ive looked at Vs clinical notes to identify when it first occurred. From the evidence I have, I 
think its more likely the lump removed is the same one first identified in January 2021. I say 
this because between January 2019  April 2021 there is no mention of another lump or 
mass. 
The notes show the cyst measured 1cm in January 2019, grew to 2cm in January 2020 and 
had grown to 3cm in January 2021. Im satisfied these notes show there had been a 
continued monitoring of the same lump. So, Im not persuaded the lump removed in 2021 
was unrelated, as Mr H has suggested. 
I appreciate Mr H says he followed the vets instructions to monitor the mass from January 
2019, but my role isnt to comment on the vetinary advice given, its to instead decide if the 
insurer has acted fairly. So, as Im satisfied the lump first occurred in January 2019, it follows 
that too much time had passed (i.e. more than 365 days  the time limit afforded under the 
policy to bring a claim) when Mr H tried to claim on his policy in April 2021. And so, I dont 
think Red Sands unfairly rejected his claim. 
Mr H is unhappy that Red Sands charged him an additional premium having seen Vs 
vetinary records. Red Sands has explained that because the vetinary information regarding 
Vs weight and breed differed from what it had been told by Mr H when the policy was taken 
out, it needed to amend the policy.
An insurer can decide what risks its prepared to insure, and in doing so will take into 
account a number of factors. I think its reasonable for Red Sands to rely on the information provided by Vs vet  and given this showed a different weight and breed  I think it acted 
reasonably by updating the policy and charging Mr H the associated costs in doing so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman