DRN-3451133
The complaint
Mr M complains Equifax Limited recorded the incorrect address format on his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr M has explained he feels Equifaxs systems incorrectly display his address. Mr M says 
the address format should include the street name but that data recorded is wrong. As a 
result, Mr M says he experiences unreasonable difficulties obtaining credit and verifying 
his identity. Mr M complained and Equifax looked into his concerns.
Equifax took steps to amend Mr Ms address and paid him £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. But Mr M says the address format used by Equifax was still wrong 
and referred his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked at Mr Ms complaint and asked Equifax to amend Mr Ms address 
format again. Mr M asked to appeal and explained the errors with his address hadnt been 
fixed and that hed lost out on an ISA and experienced difficulties verifying his identity as a 
result of how Equifax records his address. As Mr M has asked to appeal, his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr M is frustrated at the issues raised. I think its clear his address 
format has been recorded incorrectly by Equifax at times. Even after Equifax said Mr Ms 
address format had been amended after responding to his complaint, it remained incorrect. 
Looking at Mr Ms correspondence with Equifax, hes explained that the house name and 
area he lives in shouldnt be recorded on the same line. And, looking at Equifaxs evidence, 
I can see the house name and area Mr M lives in was all included on the first line of his 
address as late as September 2021.
In addition, looking at the other information provided I can also see that the area Mr M s
in wasnt included in his address by Equifax when he originally complained. Mr M has 
provided information from his local authority and the Royal Mail to support how his address 
should be recorded. Im satisfied Equifax hasnt always recorded the correct address.
There is some debate about whether the second line of Mr Ms address (beginning with a 
K) should be listed under the street or town section. I can see Mr Ms repeatedly told us he 
thinks it should be listed as the street. In November 2021 Equifax sent us evidence it had 
amended Mr Ms address and moved the line beginning with K down.
Whilst I agree the line beginning with K shouldnt have been included with Mr Ms 
propertys name, its not the street either. The Royal Mail website shows the format but its 
not clear whether the line beginning with K is a street or town. Equifax receives a more 
detailed description of the address format from Royal Mail. And that shows the line 
beginning with K is a locality not street. Looking at the area more generally, I think its 
reasonable to note that there arent specific street names, despite there being more than 
one road. An area covering several roads is referred to as K. Im satisfied Equifaxs 
decision to record the area beginning with K as a locality instead of street is reasonable.
Equifax has provided a screen shot that shows the address format now appears correctly. 
Mr M has explained hes been unable to get his Equifax report as he failed verification. But 
Equifax has explained Mr M can call to complete verification and supply documents to 
complete the process where necessary. Once thats completed, Mr M will be able to obtain 
his Equifax credit report.
Mr M has told us he lost out on a savings account and has experienced difficulties verifying 
information. I appreciate the issues raised with Equifax mayve impacted the information 
businesses obtained about him. But I think its reasonable to note theres various ways to 
verify a customers details if a credit search fails to do that. Ive taken the inconvenience Mr 
M experienced
Whilst the evidence Ive seen indicates the address format is now correct, Im not persuaded 
the £200 compensation Equifax paid when originally responding to his complaint goes far 
enough. It appears to me the amendments made at that point were incorrect as it added the 
area beginning with a K to the house name line. And the information Ive seen shows the 
address was successfully corrected in November 2021. In my view, Equifax should increase 
the level of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused from £200 to £400  a 
figure that more fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr M.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr M responded and said he was 
disappointed the provisional decision didnt direct Equifax to train its staff. Mr M also said 
Equifax hadnt contacted him to advise where to sent identification documents. Equifax 
confirmed it accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr M for responding to the provisional decision. I appreciate he remains 
frustrated at the length of time the situation has gone on and that hes not confident the error 
has been fixed. Id like to explain that our awards are focused on the consumer. We have no 
powers to tell a business to change the way it operates or retrain staff. So whilst I 
understand Mr Ms frustration, Ive focused on the impact caused to him. 
Equifax has provided evidence to us that show the address format has been amended. The 
line beginning with K is now on the second line. Once Mr M is able to access his account he 
can obtain a copy of his credit file. 
Ill ask the investigator to contact Equifax on Mr Ms behalf to confirm the steps required to 
gain access to his account. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Equifax Limited to pay him a total of 
£400 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman