DRN-2886217
The complaint
Ms H complains about how Armstrong Watson Financial Planning Limited dealt with a 
surrender request for an Investment Bond.
What happened
Ms H wanted to surrender her investment bond and contacted Armstrong Watson to find out 
the procedure. There were several phone calls and emails during which Ms H was told to 
complete and return the surrender form to Armstrong Watson who would then forward it to 
the product provider. Ms H followed these instructions.
When the bond was surrendered Ms H received around £20,000 less than she expected. 
This was because a Unit Price Adjustment (UPA) had been applied to the investment in the 
time between Ms H sending the form to Armstrong Watson and the time the product provider 
surrendered the bond.
Ms H complained to Armstrong Watson saying she shouldve been told that it was possible 
to send the surrender form directly to the product provider. This wouldve meant the 
surrender was processed quicker and before the UPA was applied meaning there wouldnt 
have been a financial loss.
Armstrong Watson looked at the circumstances but didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained it was normal practice for that type of form to be sent via a financial advisor. Whilst 
acknowledging it was unfortunate that the market fell at that time, Armstrong Watson felt 
they had acted promptly throughout the process.  
Ms H remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They thought Armstrong Watson had acted 
reasonably in the way they dealt with the surrender request. They said Ms H had asked 
Armstrong Watson to process the surrender, which is what they did. Ms H disagreed saying 
she didnt know it was an option to send the form directly to the product provider, so the 
complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has provided a lot of information about her complaint and about why she feels she 
shouldve been told she could send the surrender form herself. I want to assure Ms H that 
Ive read and considered everything she has submitted even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive 
summarised what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Ms H thinks that Armstrong Watson didnt do enough and werent proactive in telling her that 
it was possible to send the surrender form directly to the product provider. Ms H says she 
feels she made it abundantly clear that her sole objective was to withdraw her funds with the 
utmost speed. So the matter for me to decide is whether I think Armstrong Watson acted 
fairly, reasonably and in a timely manner when dealing with Ms Hs surrender request. And 
having considered all of the evidence Im persuaded they did.
Ive considered all of the correspondence Ive been presented with between Ms H and 
Armstrong Watson around the time of the surrender. Having done so I think its clear Ms H 
wanted to surrender the bond quickly because of market volatility at the time, but Im not 
persuaded the immediate nature and urgency of the request was made clear. At least I dont 
think it was made clear to the extent that Armstrong Watson shouldve stepped outside their 
normal procedures for the processing of surrender forms.
Ms H says that the completion of the form was a tick box exercise and very straightforward. 
Even though this might be the case Armstrong Watson say it is normal practice for that type 
of form to be sent via them so they can check it has been completed correctly, and it also 
puts them in a position to correspond with the product provider on her behalf. I think this is a 
reasonable position for a financial adviser to take, and again Im not persuaded that 
Armstrong Watson were reasonably aware that a different course of action shouldve been 
taken. 
Ive also reviewed the surrender form itself. At the top of the form under the heading About 
this form it says If you want a full or partial withdrawal of this plan please call us. Contact 
details for the product provider are given then it goes on to say  We might be able to 
process your request over the telephone. We will advise you on the telephone if we need 
you to complete the form. Whilst I know Ms H wasnt told by Armstrong Watson of other 
methods of surrendering the bond, I think the form is clear that there were other options. If 
the information on the form Ms H was completing didnt align with her understanding of the 
process, then there was the opportunity to question this. 
By nature a UPA isnt known by financial advisers until it has been applied. So Armstrong 
Watson wouldnt have known about the UPA when dealing with Ms H. Yes, the markets 
were volatile, but that doesnt necessarily mean they would know about a possible UPA.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Armstrong Watson acted 
fairly, reasonably and in a timely manner when processing the surrender of the bond. Thats 
not to say that Ms H hasnt been affected by what happened; she clearly has. But I dont 
think Armstrong Watson made any errors, so I wont be asking them to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman