DRN-4028132
The complaint
Mr S complains he was sent a confusing secure message and letter by HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC).
What happened
On 16 January 2023, Mr S applied for a personal loan of £7,000 from HSBC. HSBC declined 
the loan and wrote to Mr S on 18 January 2023. The letter was sent by a secure message 
which said, current account application. The letter was dated 18 January 2023 and was 
headed your recent application.
Mr S complained. He said that because the secure message and letter didnt refer to loan 
application, he was worried that his identity may have been used to open a current account 
 by someone else. He said he had to check his credit score daily to see if any other 
products had been applied for in his name. He said he had suffered a lot of worry and 
sleepless nights as a result.
In two responses dated 25 January 2023 and 30 January 2023, HSBC apologised. They 
initially said they couldnt locate the letter that was sent but could see that it related to a 
recent application. Mr S then provided the letter and secure message. HSBC apologised and 
said theyd provide feedback to the relevant area of the bank.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said HSBC dealt with his complaint 
reasonably. He agreed that the heading on the secure message was an error; but the letter 
attached to it was clearly about Mr S loan application. He said Mr S couldve contacted 
HSBC to clear up any of his concerns. He didnt think that what happened warranted 
compensation.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the explanation for the declined application couldve applied to an 
application for a current account, and not just a loan. He asked that an ombudsman look at 
his complaint. So  it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the correspondence between Mr S and our investigator. So, let me say  we are an 
informal dispute resolution service which seeks to come to fair decisions where there is a 
complaint from a consumer about a financial business. We do this based on the facts of the 
case as we see them, having taken evidence from both parties. We dont take sides. 
Ive looked at Mr S complaint in the context of this. I can see that Mr S applied for a 
personal loan on 16 January 2023, HSBC declined it. They sent a secure message on 18 
January 2023 headed current account application. So  I can see why Mr S may have been 
initially concerned.
But the letter itself - attached to the secure message - was headed your application. I 
accept that the references in the letter couldve applied to another lending product  as it 
said how the application had been assessed and it referred to credit reference agencies. But 
 as this was only two days after Mr S loan application, I think it was reasonable for him to 
assume that the message and letter did refer to the loan application, and nothing else.
I also noted that HSBC sent their second final response to Mr S complaint on 30 January 
2023  which was only 12 days after the message and letter in question was sent. So  that 
was a short period of time before Mr S got the assurance he wanted. 
HSBC apologised. And said they would look at what happened and learn from it. This 
service will award compensation where we think there has been an error which has clearly 
caused some significant distress and inconvenience. But in Mr S case, Im persuaded that 
HSBCs apology is sufficient, and I dont consider that any compensation needs to be paid.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman