DRN-2656278
The complaint
Mr H complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (EDL) lent 
irresponsibly to him.
What happened
Mr H was given a loan of £5,000 by EDL in February 2015.  This was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of around £362. The total amount payable, including interest, was just 
over £13,047. 
Mr H re-financed his loan in August 2015 with a second loan for £7,600. I understand around 
£5,515 was used to settle the first loan and the remainder provided in cash. Loan 2 was 
repayable in 36 monthly instalments of around £313. The total amount payable, including 
interest, was just over £10,671.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think EDL had acted 
irresponsibly or unfairly when it lent to Mr H. But Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators 
assessment, and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Hs complaint.
There are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision each time? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown at the time?
Did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
EDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr H irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks before it lent to Mr H each time to 
satisfy itself that he could repay the loans in a sustainable way. The lender was required to 
carry out a borrower focussed assessment - sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as the loan amount, 
the repayment amounts and Mr Hs income and expenditure. But there was no set list of 
checks EDL had to do.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
EDL carried out some checks before it provided Loan 1 to Mr H. This included asking for 
details of his financial position, carrying out some credit checks and requesting a payslip and 
bank statements. EDL assessed Mr Hs regular living expenses and his monthly credit 
commitments. 
Ive seen a summary of the information gathered by EDL, including the credit report and 
bank statements Mr H provided to EDL at the time.  
From what Ive seen, I think the checks that EDL carried out before lending to Mr H were 
reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances. 
The credit report acquired by EDL showed Mr H had two live loans with a total balance 
outstanding of less than £2,000 and no revolving accounts. Mr H has provided his own credit 
report to us. However, generally, the information a consumer might see, when they request a 
copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only 
see a portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data 
might not be up to date. New credit commitments can take some time to appear on a credit 
report and so dont always appear in any reasonable and proportionate checks that are 
carried out at the time. So, this may explain any differences between the information 
provided by EDLs credit check and the information Mr H says it should have seen.  
I dont think there was anything on the credit check that EDL acquired that would have 
caused EDL additional concerns about Mr Hs financial position. From what Ive seen, it 
appears that Mr H told EDL he intended to consolidate some of his outstanding debt with his 
EDL loan. 
Ive considered whether the information that EDL gathered should reasonably have led it to 
decline Mr Hs application. EDL would have seen from Mr Hs bank statements that he had 
borrowed from short term lenders in the months before he applied to EDL. But there doesnt 
appear to be signs of significant financial distress, such as regular gambling, a large 
overdraft or high levels of bank charges or frequently returned requests for payment, all of 
which might have signalled severe financial difficulties to EDL. It seems to me that EDL 
considered Mr Hs credit commitments, including his relatively low level of indebtedness, his 
bank statements and what Mr H said were his plans to use EDLs loan to consolidate his 
short-term debts. On balance and given what was known about Mr Hs financial 
circumstances overall, I dont think Mr Hs borrowing from other lenders had reached such a 
point that it ought to have led EDL to decline his loan application. Taking things as a whole, I 
dont think there was anything which should have caused EDL any additional concerns about 
Mr Hs financial position when he applied for the first loan. Or that should have led the lender 
to reasonably conclude that lending to Mr H would be unfair or irresponsible in some way. EDLs customer contact notes say that Mr H wanted to borrow a further £2,000 in August 
2015 for home improvements and to clear two payday loans. He was provided with a second 
loan of £7,600, which enabled him to settle the first loan and provided him with around 
£2,084 in cash. The interest rate and variable APR for the second loan was considerably 
lower than with the first loan. And the monthly repayments were also lower. From what Ive 
seen, EDL carried out further checks on Mr Hs financial position, including acquiring a credit 
report and bank statements. Mr H says that he was struggling throughout and even though 
EDL had checked his bank statements, it should have been clear that he was borrowing 
excessively from payday lenders and that he had a history of bad borrowing
But from the information it had gathered, I dont think EDL would reasonably have thought 
that Mr Hs financial position had substantially changed or deteriorated to such an extent that 
it would be irresponsible to lend to him for a second time. Or that he would most likely be 
unable to repay the second loan in a sustainable manner. I dont think Mr H had entirely got 
over his short-term financial problems when he applied for the second loan from EDL. But 
the second loan was considerably cheaper than the first loan and it would have enabled him 
to clear his remaining short-term loans and refinance his loan for a similar cost overall. 
Overall, I cant fairly say that I think EDL acted irresponsibly when it provided Mr H with the 
second loan.
Did EDL treat Mr H unfairly in some other way?
Mr H says that he is unhappy that EDL called at his house in an attempt to make him repay 
his loan. I havent seen sufficient evidence about what happened at the time for me to make 
a finding about this. But I can see from EDLs customer contact notes that when Mr H started 
to experience difficulties in repaying his loan, EDL made numerous attempts to contact him 
by SMS text message, email and telephone. It seems to me that there were several 
opportunities for Mr H to respond to EDLs attempts to contact him, if he wanted to avoid the 
lender visiting him at home in order to discuss his account.
I am sorry that Mr H has found himself in difficult circumstances.  But I havent seen enough 
for me to say that I think that EDL treated Mr H unfairly in some other way. And as I have 
explained, I cant fairly say that I think EDL lent to Mr H irresponsibly.
If Mr Hs loan is still outstanding, I would expect EDL to be mindful of its obligation to treat 
him positively and sympathetically and to try to arrange a repayment plan that is affordable 
for Mr H. I know Mr H will be disappointed by my decision. But I would like to reassure him I 
have carefully considered everything that both he and EDL have told us and all the evidence 
that has been provided. Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Everyday Lending Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman