DRN-2151189
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim she made
under her HomeServe Cover3 policy.
What happened
Mrs H contacted Aviva in 2019 after what she says was the fifth time her water supply pipe 
under her driveway leaked. Mrs H says Aviva told her the leak would be repaired during one
appointment and the whole pipe replaced during a second appointment.
Aviva fixed the leak during the first appointment. When it didnt arrive for the second
appointment, Mrs H contacted Aviva. Aviva told Mrs H it cancelled the second appointment
as the leak was fixed during the first appointment. It also said it wouldnt replace the whole
pipe as this was not covered by Mrs Hs policy.
Mrs H complained to Aviva. She was unhappy that it hadnt told her the second appointment
had been cancelled. She also felt the terms and conditions of her policy covered
replacement of the pipe. Mrs H says she also told Aviva that she had serious health issues.
Aviva upheld the part of Mrs Hs complaint about the cancelled appointment and offered her
£50 for the inconvenience this caused her. But Aviva didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint about
replacement of her water supply pipe. It said that because the last repair was completed
over a year ago, the repair would be outside Avivas warranty period.
Mrs H told Aviva that during each of the repairs, the engineers told her the pipe would
need to be replaced. And the call handler shed spoken to at Aviva told her the pipe would
be replaced. Mrs H said she felt Aviva hadnt considered the number of previous repairs, the
increase in her premiums, the increase in her water bills or the stress caused to her. Mrs H
pointed out again to Aviva her serious health problems.
Mrs H then called Aviva again as her driveway was still not safe to walk on. The same
engineer who attended the most recent leak also came to fix her driveway. Mrs H said the
engineer told her he was expecting to attend the second appointment to replace the pipe
and was surprised that this didnt go ahead.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us. She told us the same pipe had leaked five times from
different places and felt it was likely to leak again. She said her premiums increased after the
first leak and her water bill had increased by £200. She didnt agree that her policy didnt
cover replacement of her pipe and said there should be a call recording where Aviva said it
would replace her pipe. Mrs H said she wanted Aviva to replace the pipe and to compensate
her for the increase in her premiums.
Aviva told us Mrs H had reported leaks from her water supply pipe in 2015, 2017 and 2019.
It said one of its engineers noted that the pipe was a black poly pipe, installed during the
1970s which was very brittle and situated in ground that was not ideal for this type of pipe.
Aviva said Mrs Hs policy only provides cover in the event of an emergency and that it would
not replace the whole pipe - only the section of pipe that was leaking. It also said it would not
replace a pipe to prevent future leaks, as this was Mrs Hs responsibility.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Hs complaint. He said Aviva should replace the whole pipe as
its brittleness meant the whole pipe was damaged. He said that because one of the leaks
came from the same area as a previous repair, Aviva hadnt ensured the repair had made
the pipe fit for proper future use.
Our investigator said Aviva should pay Mrs H a further £150 compensation because it hadnt
taken into account the full impact of the cancelled appointment, the cost of the lost water
from the previous repair or the uneven state of Mrs Hs driveway, given that she walks with a
stick.
Aviva disagreed with our investigators view. It restated that Mrs Hs policy is for
emergencies, that her policys terms didnt cover replacement of the whole pipe nor did it
cover replacement of the pipe to prevent future leaks. Aviva didnt agree that Mrs Hs
compensation should be increased. It said the cancelled appointment would not have
caused Mrs H any financial loss as her age meant she wouldnt have needed to take time off
work. It said that because the leaks were caused by the poor condition of the pipe, it
shouldnt have to pay Mrs H compensation for the lost water.
Our investigator responded to Aviva. He said the engineers report noted the entire pipe was
damaged and so the most reasonable outcome would be for Aviva to replace the whole pipe.
He said Mrs H should be compensated for the lost water as the engineers report said that
the pipe had burst in the same area as a previous repair. And that £50 was not enough
compensation for the cancelled appointment as Mrs H had to move arrangements
associated with her health condition to accommodate it.
Aviva queried whether Mrs H actually had medical appointments scheduled for the day of
the second appointment. It said that if Mrs H had made it aware of her appointments, they
would have tried to offer her an alternative slot.
Aviva asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I asked Mrs H to provide copies of her policy documentation. She provided copies of
excerpts from three HomeServe policies, highlighting the passages where she felt the
documentation said Aviva would replace the entire pipe.
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision was that I was minded to partially uphold Mrs Hs complaint by 
increasing her compensation to a total of £200, but I wasnt minded to instruct Aviva to 
replace Mrs Hs water supply pipe. I explained my provisional findings to both parties as 
follows: 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions set out in Mrs Hs policy documentation in force at the
time of her last claim. The Policy Summary mentions in the Significant Inclusions box:
Repair or replacement of a leaking or blocked water supply pipe.
But the Policy Summary also refers Mrs H to the policys terms and conditions for a full
description of the cover provided. The terms and conditions then clearly state that the policy
covers replacement or repair of an affected section of the water supply pipe in the event ofa leak:
You are also covered for a leak or blockage in your water supply pipe. An engineer will
locate the leak or blockage and repair, replace or unblock the affected section of the water
supply pipe
So, despite Mrs H being told by Avivas engineers that the pipe would need replacing, Im
satisfied that the terms of Mrs Hs policy dont require Aviva to replace the whole pipe in the
event of a leak. The terms only require Aviva to repair the leak or replace the section of pipe
thats leaking.
Mrs H says the call handler at Aviva told her it would replace the pipe during a second
appointment. Aviva says it has no note of this conversation and is unable to provide a copy
of the call recording. It is not in dispute that a second appointment was made. Mrs H can
provide the name of the call handler, the location of the call handlers office and also sent us
a CD of the call recording. Although we were unable to listen to the CD recording, I am
persuaded on balance, given the details Mrs H is able to provide, that its likely she was told
by the call handler that her pipe would be replaced. But this doesnt mean Aviva should
replace Mrs Hs water supply pipe, because the policy terms are clear on this.
Our investigator said Aviva should replace the whole of Mrs Hs water supply pipe because
at least one of the leaks came from the same place as a previous repair. But I think the leaks
happened in different places along the pipe. Not only did Mrs H tell us the pipe kept leaking
in different places, but an engineers report remarked that one of the leaks occurred near to
rather than from an old repair. Because of this I dont think on balance that the most recent
leak came from a previous repair.
Our investigator also said that the poor condition of the pipe meant the whole pipe was
damaged  or affected - and so Aviva should replace the whole pipe. But poor condition is
different to damage. Mrs Hs policy is clear that Aviva will only either fix the leak or replace a
section of pipe affected by a leak. Whilst the whole pipe was in poor condition, the whole
pipe wasnt leaking.
Mrs H said her pipe had leaked four times before the most recent leak and told us she was
concerned it would leak again. Mrs H also said that shed been told by Avivas engineers that
the pipe needed to be replaced. So it is reasonable to expect, at the time of the most recent
leak, that Mrs H was aware that the pipe was in poor condition. Mrs Hs terms and conditions
say that normal day-to-day maintenance of the items covered by your policy at your
property is excluded from her cover. Day-to-day maintenance would include replacement of
a pipe that is poor condition and Im satisfied that this would be Mrs Hs responsibility not
Avivas.
Mrs Hs policy is a home emergency policy. The policys terms and conditions state: This
policy provides insurance cover in relation to emergencies and in relation to other domestic
incidents. And a pipe in poor condition cant reasonably be considered to be an emergency.
So I dont think Aviva should replace the pipe because of its poor condition.
Our investigator increased Mrs Hs compensation to £150 partly to cover the cost of the lost
water. Mrs Hs policy documentation clearly states that any costs of water lost during a leak
is not covered. And the last leak did not appear to come from a previous repair. So I am
satisfied Aviva arent responsible for the cost of the lost water.
Our investigator increased Mrs Hs compensation because she was left with an uneven
driveway. But because this and her unhappiness about her premium increases were raised
after her complaint about the appointment and the replacement of her pipe, both points needto be considered separately to this complaint. So, I havent considered Mrs Hs complaint
about these points here.
Aviva was unhappy about the increase in compensation for the cancelled appointment. But I
feel Avivas original compensation of £50 is not enough to compensate Mrs H for the trouble
and uncertainty caused to her by Aviva failing to tell her that it had cancelled the second
appointment. Also, I think Mrs H should be awarded compensation for the disappointment of
Aviva telling her the pipe would be replaced only to then tell her it wouldnt be. So I am
minded to award Mrs H a total of £200 compensation for her trouble and upset.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision and did not provide any further comment or 
information. Mrs H did not accept my decision and provided arguments and some new 
information in response.
Mrs H told us her water supply pipe didnt leak for the first four years that she owned her 
property. She purchased her property in 2007 following a full structural survey and her water 
supply pipe leaked significantly for the first time in 2011. Mrs H also questioned in her 
response how she could have known about the condition of her pipe as it was underground. 
My provisional decision said that I felt it was reasonable for Mrs H to have known about the 
poor condition of her pipe. This is because shed told us itd leaked four times before she 
made her claim, was concerned it would leak again and an engineer had told her previously 
that the pipe should be replaced. Because this all happened after the first leak in 2011, I still 
think its reasonable - despite the pipe being underground and not leaking between 2007 and 
2011 - Mrs H wouldve known the pipe was in poor condition when she made her claim in 
2019. 
Mrs Hs response said that three repairs to her water supply pipe before 2014 had weakened 
it. But an Aviva engineer noted that the pipe was brittle before she made her claim in 2019 
and there is no evidence to suggest that the leak came from a previous repair. So I think it 
more likely on balance that the pipe leaked because of its poor condition and not because it 
had been weakened by any repairs. So I still remain satisfied that Aviva did what Id have 
expected to here as, under the terms of the policy and as set out in my provisional decision, 
Aviva do not need to replace a pipe or a section of pipe because it is in poor condition.
Mrs H told us she felt the pipe shouldve been replaced by Aviva after the third leak. She 
also said that an Aviva call handler was rude to her. Mrs Hs response also mentioned her 
driveway. I explained in my provisional decision that I hadnt considered Mrs Hs point about 
her driveway as it would need to be considered separately because it was raised after her 
complaint about the appointment and the replacement of her pipe. The same is true of Mrs 
Hs concerns raised in her response about the pipe not being replaced after the third leak 
and the way she says she was spoken to. If Mrs H wishes to pursue any of these points 
further, shell need to raise them first with Aviva - if shes not done so already - to give it the 
opportunity to respond.  
Mrs H asked me to tell her where in her policy documentation it says that replacement of 
water supply pipes is not covered. She also said she felt Aviva should consider replacing the 
pipe because it is only 5.5 metres long and pointed out shed continued to pay her premiums 
despite her pipe not being replaced. My provisional decision said the policys terms and 
conditions satisfy me that Aviva would only need to repair or replace a section of the pipe 
that is leaking and not the whole pipe. But there is an additional term in Mrs Hs policy in the 
Plumbing and Drainage section where is says What isnt covered? ..where there is no 
evidence of a blockage, a leak or damage to the water supply pipe. I think it is clear under 
the both policy terms, even when they are viewed separately, that Aviva dont need to do 
anything if Mrs Hs pipe isnt blocked, leaking or damaged. This is true regardless of the length of the pipe or Mrs H continuing to pay her premiums. And as I said in my provisional 
decision, poor condition is not the same as damage. 
So, for the reasons outlined above, Mrs Hs information and arguments dont give me reason 
to depart from my provisional findings.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. 
Aviva has accepted my provisional decision and Mrs Hs response hasnt persuaded me to 
depart from my provisional findings. So, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint in part in 
line with my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs H £200 
compensation for her trouble and upset. But I do not instruct Aviva Insurance Limited to 
replace Mrs Hs water supply pipe.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman