DRN-3316844
The complaint
Mr R says Clerical Medical Financial Services Limited (CM) has presented potentially 
inaccurate and certainly inadequate redress for its unsuitable recommendation of a Free 
Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) Plan to him in 1995. Underlying his 
case is the position that he should have been advised to purchase an in-house/employment-
based Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) plan.
CM says the redress it presented is accurate, is fair and is compliant with guidance from the 
regulator and from this service.
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He concluded that it should not be 
upheld, because CMs offer appears to be accurate, is in line with regulatory guidance and, 
in the circumstances of Mr Rs case, is fair. His main and concluding findings were:
In 2018, Mr R complained about the 1995 advice. Eventually, CM accepted that it 
was responsible for the advice, that it could not establish it had assessed, and 
advised him on, the benefits of the in-house AVC in comparison with the FSAVC, that 
it was upholding his complaint, that it had paid him £175 for the inconvenience 
caused by its initial misunderstanding of the complaint and its delay in addressing it, 
that it had later paid him an additional £500 for the level of service he received and 
that it would calculate and pay him redress for loss arising from its recommendation 
of the FSAVC (in comparison to what he could have had from the in-house AVC).
CM engaged an actuary to calculate the redress and it was done in line with the 
regulators guidance for such calculations. They took some time to be completed 
(partly due to the complexities of the calculation) and the net compensation amount 
arrived at was £2,615 (or £3,076.02 gross, before the 15% deduction which 
represented tax that would be payable on an annuity at retirement). The redress 
incorporated compensation for both the underlying pension and for charges/fees. 
Copies of the detailed calculations have been shared with Mr R and he was invited to 
consider appointing his own actuary to verify them. CM has assured this service that 
they are accurate and we have not seen cause to doubt that, if Mr R can identify any 
inaccuracy(ies) in the calculations they can be presented to CM to look into. Due to 
the net redress size, CM paid it to him as a lump-sum instead of paying it into an 
ongoing annuity.
Available evidence of Mr Rs circumstances in 1995 do not support his claim for 
additional redress, which he seeks on the argument that he would have purchased 
added years through the AVC  had he gone with the AVC  so he should be 
compensated for his loss of benefit in this respect too. The suitable purchase of 
added years appears to have been unlikely. His profile at the time  including his age 
and profession/professional skills in a specialised field (which would have been in 
demand from employers)  meant he would reasonably have been considered a 
potential early leaver, for whom added years would likely have been less beneficial.
CMs payments are fair and reasonable. Mr M has referred to a separate matter 
about his MBNA accounts/cards and he appears to have done that because MBNA is 
part of the same group of companies as CM, but it remains a matter unrelated to his 
complaint about redress for the FSAVC advice.
Mr R did not accept this outcome. He mainly says:
CM fully concedes that the FSAVC was mis-sold to him in 1995, that is not in dispute 
and the only matter to determine is that of complete and fair compensation to him. 
The implication arising from CMs concession is that it also accepts that, had he been 
suitably advised, the in-house AVC is what he would have purchased. That in-house 
AVC had the beneficial feature of opportunity to purchase additional years.
The redress presented by CM  has been restricted largely to charges with a small 
notional element in respect of the underlying pension. This does not include any 
compensation in respect of the fact that [he] would have utilised [his] employer's In-
House AVC Scheme to purchase additional years.
The present redress calculations were subcontracted to a third party because CM 
does not  have the expertise to carry this out. Neither you nor I have the ability to 
check these calculations. [The third party] has an appalling reputation in the market 
and [he has] no confidence that they are able to undertake this task correctly.
With regards to compensation for the loss of additional years, CMs justification for 
not giving such compensation has been accepted by the investigator and both are 
misguided and wrong on the matter. There is no evidence that CM even considered 
this aspect at the relevant time, so it has no basis to say he was considered to be an 
early leaver.
The facts were/are that he was not a professional in the field that has been referred 
to and he did not hold professional qualifications required for that field. He was 
seconded to the role he held during the 1995 advice (and to the area of work that has 
been referred) for a temporary period (four years), he was around one year into that 
secondment at the time and when the full period ended he returned to his original 
role. That original role was in what can fairly be described as a cradle to grave one 
employer job, because incumbents in the area of that job rarely left it for another job 
with another employer. Throughout his career at the particular firm he never heard of 
such a departure, or even a departure from the area he was seconded to. Later in his 
career he did move into a different role and then moved, once, to a new employer, 
but the new firm had a comparable scheme with the option of purchasing additional 
years. At the point of this move  and had he gone with the AVC in the previous firm 
(and purchased additional years)  he could have either frozen the previous scheme 
(with the premia continuing in the new employers scheme to purchase additional 
years) or he could have transferred, as additional years, the previous scheme to the 
new one. Either way, he would have been better off.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons.
I agree with Mr R about the limited issues in his complaint. 
The merits in the complaint have been upheld and conceded by CM, so that is not in dispute. 
I have noted, within his wider submissions, some criticisms of the length of time it took for 
CM to conclude/present the redress calculations. However, this does not appear to be the 
crux of his present pursuit. Nevertheless, I have given it consideration and I agree with the 
investigators finding that the complexities of the calculation would have contributed to the 
delay. That was unavoidable, as these calculations are inherently complex. That was beyond 
CMs control. I also consider that the outsourcing of the task of calculating redress could 
have further contributed to the delay. I do not consider it fair to criticise CM for doing that. It 
appears to have reasonably acknowledged its limitations in this respect, so it engaged a 
specialist actuary to perform the task. Furthermore, it should be noted that interest over the 
delay period appears to have been factored into the redress calculation, so Mr R has not 
been disadvantaged by the delay. Overall and on balance, I do not consider that there is a 
wrongdoing to find in this aspect of the case.
CMs initial misunderstanding of, and delay in addressing, Mr Rs complaint also does not 
appear to be the crux of his present pursuit. He would have been entitled to be displeased 
by this, but I consider that CMs payments of £175 and £500 for this aspect of the case was 
fair and reasonable. Its submissions to us confirmed that both payments were made  in 
respect of the misunderstanding that occurred when [it] initially received [the] complaint, 
which caused a delay in our response and  for the level of service [Mr R] received 
throughout [its] investigations and the delays that have occurred. Given that redress already 
includes interest for the delayed calculation, and given that the initial delay on CMs part 
appears to have lasted for around two to three months, I am persuaded that the total of £675 
stands as fair compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr R.
The crux of his pursuit and the issues in dispute are the accuracy of the redress calculations 
and the absence from the calculations (and from the redress award) of compensation for his 
claim about lost additional years.
Mr R is entitled to what appears to be his general view of the third party who conducted the 
redress calculations. That view has been quoted above but it is not something I need to 
determine. He has not referred to any specific inaccuracies identified in the calculations. He 
was invited to have them verified by an actuary of his own appointment but he does not 
appear to have done that. I do not suggest that he was required to do so or that he should 
be blamed for not doing so, but if, as it seems, he is not convinced by the calculations and 
he suspects they might be inaccurate appointing an actuary to verify them is something he 
could have done to address his concerns. 
From this services viewpoint, where an FSAVC has been mis-sold we usually expect the 
firm to calculate and pay the relevant consumer redress based on the regulators FSAVC 
Review Guidance. CM has acknowledged and accepted this, and it confirms that the 
calculations in Mr Rs case were done on this basis  and evidence appears to support this. 
We have not found cause to say the calculations are wrong or non-compliant and there is 
evidence that they cover the calculations of compensation for the underlying pension, for 
charges/fees and for interest. As Mr R agrees, they are complex calculations  for which 
even CM required the assistance of an actuary. We do not provide an actuarial service, so it 
is beyond our remit to provide specialist verification of the calculations. However, in the 
circumstances of the case as summarised above (and as addressed by the investigator) and 
in the absence of evidence that they are wrong, I am not persuaded to conclude that the calculations are wrong.
The possibility that Mr R might or might not have found it suitable to purchase additional 
years in the in-house AVC  had he opted for that in 1995  and that he might have 
purchased such additional years, is a fair point to make. However, it is establishing the 
probability of both that is required to support his claim for compensation in this respect. 
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded by available evidence that such probability has 
been established.
Mr R says CM did not consider this aspect in 1995. CM concedes it cannot say that it 
assessed, and advised him on, the benefits of the in-house AVC in comparison with the 
FSAVC at the time. It follows that it probably did not have any consideration about additional 
years in the in-house AVC at the time, so Mr Rs point is probably correct. However, it does 
not appear to me that CM claims to have had this consideration at the time. In one of its 
complaint responses it said it had  looked at [his] circumstances at the time of the advice 
to see if [he] would have paid "added years" AVCs, had [he] received appropriate advice 
[my emphasis]. Like the investigators approach, and as I set out above, CMs approach is 
based on what it thinks was probable at the time. It does not appear to be based on a claim 
about what it did at the time. 
Mr R was at a relatively young age in 1995. I understand the explanation he has given about 
his profession, about his original role/job (which he occupied up to around a year before 
1995) and about the distinction between that and the role/job he was seconded to (and 
occupied in 1995), before thereafter returning to his original role. I consider it fair to take into 
consideration his prospects as they probably were, but I do not consider it safe to take into 
account how his career developed thereafter, because that was not known (with certainty) at 
the time  and because the task before me is to determine whether (or not), at the time, he 
would probably and suitably have purchased additional years in the in-house AVC. For this 
reason, I do not feature what he has said about how his career actually developed.
The details of Mr Rs professional circumstances will not be set out in this decision, in order 
to safeguard his anonymity. However, it is enough to say he was in a meaningful and 
professional role, at a relatively senior level and with notable prospects for progression 
(internally and externally). He says incumbents in the role, around the relevant time, broadly 
remained there throughout their careers on a cradle to grave one employer basis. On 
balance, I find this an undue and rather simplistic generalisation that has not been supported 
by persuasive evidence from him and is not supported by general knowledge of the type of 
position he held. Upon an objective analysis, it was the type of position that gave him more 
(not less) potential for progression to other comparable or different roles within the same firm 
or with another firm  so he was a potential early leaver in this respect. 
Adding the above to Mr Rs age in 1995, it is not unreasonable to conclude, on balance, that 
his profile was probably not that of an employee more likely (than not) to remain with the 
same employer throughout his career; and, instead, it appears to have been that of an 
employee more likely (than not) to be an early leaver. To be clear, this finding is based on 
his original role  which is what he says the matter should be considered upon. For the sake 
of completeness, I am also not persuaded that the finding would be much different if based 
on the role he was seconded to. 
Following from the above analysis the outcome is that, on balance, it is unlikely the purchase 
of additional years through the in-house AVC would have been suitable for Mr R; so it is 
unlikely that he would have purchased that at the time if he opted for the in-house AVC; and 
for this reason, his claim for compensation in this respect is not upheld.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman