DRN-3644555
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds (Acromas) handling of her 
claim and the settlement payment it offered after her car was damaged, under her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Towards the end of November 2021 Mrs G claimed to Acromas for damage that had been 
caused to her car. It arranged for the damage to be assessed and decided the car was 
beyond economical repair. It offered Mrs G a settlement payment for £1,732.37 less her 
policy excess for £150. 
Mrs G didnt think this offer was fair, she thought her car was worth more and she wouldnt 
be able to replace it for this amount. Around a week later Acromas increased its offer to 
£2,150 less the excess. It in its final complaint response it also offered £250 compensation 
for delays and poor communication when handling her claim. 
Mrs G wasnt satisfied with Acromass response and referred her complaint to our service. 
She told us her claim had taken a long time, with unnecessary delays, time wasting and a 
lack of communication. She says this affected her health through lack of sleep and stress. 
Mrs G says she felt pressurised to accept Acromass offer, which she thought was too low. 
She wants to know that feedback has been provided to Acromas in relation to its processes.
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He says the industry price guides he checked 
showed that Acromass valuation of her car was fair. He thought Mrs G has suffered delays 
and poor communication. But he felt the £250 compensation Acromas had offered was 
reasonable. 
Mrs G didnt think this outcome was fair and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
My remit here is to consider whether Acromas has applied a fair and reasonable approach to 
valuing Mrs Gs car. We dont provide valuations for cars, but we do look to see whether the 
insurers offer is reasonable.
Mrs Gs policy terms under the section headed, Loss or Damage, says:
 
We have the right to choose which action to take in the case of any claim and we will do 
one of the following:
repair the damage; or
replace what is lost or damaged beyond economical
repair; or
pay you cash for the amount of the loss or damage.
The most we will pay is the market value of your vehicle.
I can see that Acromass engineer determined the car wasnt economical to repair and so 
classed it as a total loss. As a result, it offered what it thought the market value would be 
immediately prior to the damage claim.
The policy defines market value as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle with a vehicle of the same make, model, specification, 
age, mileage and condition as your vehicle was immediately before the loss or damage you 
are claiming for. Where we are unable to estimate the market value of your vehicle we will 
use the nearest market equivalent for comparison.
Acromas used the industry trade guides when establishing what it thought the market value 
of Mrs Gs car was. It initially valued the car at £1,732.37 and later increased this to £2,150.
We think the motor trade guides are a fair way to establish the market value of a car. The 
guides are based on nationwide research of likely selling prices. They use advertised prices 
and auction prices to work out what likely selling prices would have been. 
Our investigator thought that Acromass settlement offer was fair. Ive checked to see how 
he came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked at the motor trade guides, using the 
same make, model, mileage, and condition of Mrs Gs car at the time the loss occurred. 
From this I can see the payment offered by Acromas was slightly more than the valuation we 
obtained.  
I acknowledge Mrs Gs comments about not being able to replace her car like for like with 
the amount Acromas offered. But her policy doesnt provide for a like for like replacement. It 
provides the market value in the case of a total loss.
Based on this Im satisfied that Acromass approach to valuing Mrs Gs car was fair and 
reasonable and in line with its policy terms. So, I cant fairly ask it to increase its offer. 
I have also thought about Mrs Gs concerns regarding the handling of her claim. I can see 
she first contacted Acromas towards the end of November 2021. She wasnt notified until the 
beginning of January 2022 that her car wasnt repairable. I can see from the notes that 
Acromas wasnt aware of its engineers findings until the end of December 2021. It then took 
around a week for it to contact Mrs G to offer her a settlement payment. 
We expect Acromas to handle claims effectively. In this case I dont think its reasonable for 
Mrs G to have waited over a month for an engineer to assess the damage. It wasnt known 
what the repairs would cost until this was done. This caused a delay in the settlement offer 
being communicated. 
From the records Mrs G contacted Acromas numerous times during December 2021 
requesting updates. She has provided a detailed timeline of the contacts she made and says 
she was kept on hold for long periods. From reviewing its records, I think Acromass view 
that communication wasnt of a good standard is fair. Mrs G also points to her car being 
inspected at a garage some distance for her home. She doesnt think it was fair to be asked 
to collect her personal items from her car when it was around 18 miles away. I think it was reasonable for Acromas to offer compensation to Mrs G for the poor 
communication and delays she experienced. I have thought about the impact this had on 
her. I acknowledge Mrs G was worried and caused inconvenience by the delays and poor 
communication, and her comments as to the distance to the garage. But I do think 
Acromass offer of £250 represents fair compensation in these circumstances. 
Mrs Gs raises concerns with how Acromas operates its business and requests that her 
concerns are passed on to the regulator. 
The focus of our service is resolve individual disputes. Were not able to dictate to an insurer 
how it should run its business. If Mrs G wants to pursue her concerns further, she can of 
course contact the industry regulator directly. 
Having considered all of this I think Acromass treated Mrs G fairly when providing a 
settlement offer for her car. I dont think it treated her fairly with regards to the delays and 
poor communication when handling her claim. But I think its offer of £250 compensation was 
reasonable to acknowledge these issues. So, I cant fairly ask it to do any more.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman