DRN-2792587
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the advice he received from LEBC Group Limited to invest his 
pension the Woodford Equity Income Fund.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties so I wont repeat them in detail here. In summary 
LEBC advised Mr D in late 2017 with regard to transferring his pension to a pension account. 
As part of the process an attitude to risk questionnaire was completed and Mr D agreed his 
attitude to risk was low to medium. A report sent in January 2018 gave Mr D full details of 
the makeup of the fund and how it would be monitored. Funds were then transferred and 
invested in March 2018.
Mr D complains about the advice to invest in the Woodford fund which carried a high risk 
whilst his attitude to risk was low to medium. This investment was 7.5% of a wider portfolio. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ds complaint be upheld. He acknowledged that the 
risk attached to the portfolio was 3/10 which matched Mr Ds attitude to risk score. However 
he felt that the asset allocation was unsuitable for Mr D  with a higher concentration of 
equities than would be expected for a low to medium risk investor. He explained how he felt 
fair compensation should be calculated.
Mr D accepted the recommendation but LEBC didnt. It said
At the time of the advice their solution included the ability to review a portfolio and 
based on underlying assets, weights and their volatility produce a risk report 
matching it to a level of risk.
Using the risk questionnaire Mr D was assessed as having a risk rating of 3/10 and 
the portfolio was assessed as suitable, which included the ability to regularly review 
the advice given and rebalance both the portfolio and reassess the investment risk 
profile of the customer and the investments.
The governance and rebalancing of the portfolio would indicate if the risk profile later 
exceeded the customers risk profile and the ongoing advice reviews would allow the 
investment to be switched to a more appropriate portfolio. Additionally, funds are 
regularly added and removed from the portfolio to maintain the portfolio aim  which 
here was higher income generation. This is in addition to the annual rebalancing 
review and ongoing advice reviews.
The portfolio was designed for customers who are aware of the need to maintain 
some growth as well as income on their investments. They are seeking a stream of 
income capable of growing and keeping pace with inflation  such customers are 
likely to want the income either immediately or in the very short term.
The portfolio was suitable for Mr Ds risk profile even accounting for the higher level 
of equities and subsequent advice reviews would be used to ensure it remained 
suitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The portfolio comprised of 15 different funds and 7.5% of the total was invested in the 
Woodford fund about which Mr D complained. However the breakdown of Mr Ds portfolio 
between the four main asset classes was as follows: 
48.59% Equities
33.07% Fixed Interest
9.16% Property
8.63% Cash & Other
LEBC had a regulatory duty to take reasonable steps to ensure that the recommendation it 
made was suitable for its client. When making the recommendation LEBC was obliged to 
obtain necessary information regarding the clients knowledge and experience in the 
investment field, financial situation and investment objectives. 
Ive considered with care the representations that LEBC has made. I find that the Woodford 
fund about which Mr D complained did carry a higher risk than his attitude to risk allowed for. 
Nevertheless I appreciate that the this fund made up only 7.5% of the total invested. I also 
take into account that the governance and rebalancing may have allowed for fund 
adjustment, but would only have returned the allocation of funds to its original weightings. 
LEBC did consider the length of time that Mr D wished to hold the investment and its 
purpose, as it was obliged to do. But looking holistically at the advice Mr D received, it 
seems that this was at the expense of his preference for risk taking. I say this because Im 
satisfied that the recommendation of investing almost half his portfolio in equities exposed 
him to greater risk than his risk profile  low to medium - allowed for. Accordingly I dont find 
that Mr Ds investment objectives were met by the recommendation of a portfolio with almost 
50% in equities.
It follows that I find that investment advice given to Mr D was unsuitable and I therefore 
uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr D as close as
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable 
investment advice. Mr D should be aware that this may not mean he has lost out financially.
I think Mr D would have invested differently. With respect to the Woodford Equity Income 
fund, it could have been included in a lower risk portfolio that was suitable for Mr D. But its 
not possible to say precisely if this would have been the case or what other investments he 
may have invested in. I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr D's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must LEBC do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, LEBC must:Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
LEBC should add interest as set out below:
LEBC should pay into Mr D's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If LEBC is unable to pay the total amount into Mr D's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr D wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr D would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If LEBC deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. LEBC should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr D asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
LEBC 
Income Plus 
Governed 
Investment 
PortfolioStill exists For half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. At the end date part of Mr Ds investment remained frozen in the Woodford fund, so it
wasnt payable at that time. It would be unfair to LEBC for this investment to be considered 
to have no value, as Mr D has already received some of the investment value back from the 
liquidators and hell likely receive further disbursements until the liquidation is concluded.
However Mr D may not eventually receive the value placed on his investment in the fund at 
the end date. In the meantime he wont be able to sell his investment and invest the 
proceeds elsewhere.
To fairly address this LEBC should:
Use the value placed on Mr Ds remaining investment in the Woodford fund at the 
end date when determining the total actual value of his investment.
Pay Mr D a return that would likely be generated by the size of this investment in a 
two-year period. This should be calculated by using the average annual return from 
the benchmark above over the past 20 years. LEBC may appropriately deduct any 
proceeds Mr D received from the liquidation since the end date and prior to the date 
of their calculation.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, LEBC should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the LEBC Income Plus Governed Investment Portfolio should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if LEBC totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr D's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr D into that position. It does not mean that Mr D would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr D could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that LEBC Group Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
LEBC Group Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple 
format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D either to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman