DRN-3443162
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Lloyds Bank PLC incorrectly setting up a number of accounts in her
name.
Mrs C is represented in this complaint, by an organisation who Ill refer to as R. For ease of
reading any reference to Mrs C also includes anything done by R.
What happened
Mrs C is a legally appointed lay Deputy for her son. This involves her managing his finances
on his behalf. Mrs C needed to set up several accounts for her son, which she did with
Lloyds.
Lloyds didnt set the accounts up correctly and this caused Mrs Cs personal tax code to be
changed on several occasions. It also resulted in a fraud investigation into Mrs C by HMRC.
Mrs C contacted Lloyds about this with the help of R, and a financial advisor Ill call F, and
an accountant Ill refer to as G. Rather than looking into the issue she had raised Lloyds
dealt with Mrs Cs query as a complaint.
Mrs C has said the whole situation has caused her a significant amount of distress and
inconvenience. She was understandably concerned about the fraud investigation and the
impact that could have on her. Due to the complexity of the issue. Mrs C, F and R spent a
considerable amount of time trying to rectify it. Mrs C was also concerned about the impact
this was having on her son, who she is the main carer for, and how the fraud investigation
could affect her ability to continue to care for him as she had been.
As Lloyds didnt resolve the issue Mrs C brought her complaint here.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it was upheld. They
recommended Lloyds appoint a dedicated person to ensure the accounts were closed as
requested and pay Mrs C:
1. £9,780 to cover Fs fees
2. £360 to cover Gs fees
3. £2,000 contribution to Rs fees
4. £2,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Our investigator also asked Lloyds to pay 8% simple interest on 1, 2 and 3 above, calculated
from the date Mrs C paid the fees to the date settlement was made.
Lloyds accepted our investigators recommendation and since then the accounts Mrs C
wanted closing, have now been closed. As the accounts, which were set up incorrectly, have
now been closed, the core issue has been resolved.
Mrs C disagreed with the amount Lloyds agreed to pay and provided further invoices for
work R had done. Mrs C requested Lloyds also cover these as she said the costs have only
been incurred due to Lloyds error.
Another ombudsman reviewed Mrs Cs response but didnt think there was enough to show
the costs Mrs C had incurred for R was solely related to Lloyds error. However, the
ombudsman did think Lloyds needed to do more to compensate Mrs C and asked Lloyds to
increase the amount of distress and inconvenience to £4,000. Lloyds agreed to the increase
in the compensation it needed to pay for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs C didnt agree, she said the costs for R had only been incurred because of the error with
Lloyds. She also provided an explanation of her relationship with R as she dealt with them in
different capacities. Mrs C also said shed tried to transfer her sons ISA account from
Lloyds, but Lloyds hadnt approved the transfer.
As Mrs C didnt agree with the amount Lloyds had agreed to pay the complaint has come to
me do decide.
I asked our investigator to ask Lloyds about the ISA transfer and the additional costs Mrs C
incurred from F. Lloyds said it had agreed to reimburse Mrs C for the costs she incurred from
F due to Lloyds error and, as the ISA account had correctly been set up in Mrs Cs sons
name, it didnt think it was part of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 March 2022 where I said:
When considering all the information on this complaint Im mindful on how long it has gone
on for and the complexities involved. I would therefore like to assure Mrs C that Ive thought
carefully about this before reaching this decision. Mrs C has made a number of detailed
points. Were an informal dispute resolution service set up as a free alternative to the courts.
In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather
than commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mrs C.
Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
Ill first approach the issue with the ISA transfer and Fs costs related to this. As the ISA
transfer isnt the subject of the original complaint, Im not able to consider it in this decision. It
therefore follows that the additional costs Mrs C has incurred from F for the ISA transfer I
also wont be considering in this decision. I understand Mrs C believes theyre linked as
shes only transferred the accounts from Lloyds due to its previous error. However, as the
ISA account was in Mrs Cs sons name it doesnt appear to have been incorrectly set up or
caused Mrs C any issue with her tax codes. Therefore, if Mrs C is unhappy about the
transfer, she would need to raise that separately.
Ill then consider the costs Mrs C has incurred due to Lloyds error. Mrs C has said shes
incurred costs from F to help resolve the issue with the accounts set up incorrectly. I can see
Lloyds has agreed to pay £9,780 to Mrs C to cover these costs. This is the total of two
invoices for Fs work. As Lloyds has agreed to pay these costs, Im satisfied thats a fair and
reasonable amount for Lloyds to pay Mrs C.
Mrs C has now also provided a third invoice for Fs costs for work completed between April
2021 and October 2021. However, Im not persuaded this further invoice is solely due to
Lloyds error. I say this because F has done a lot of work to correct the issue and set up new
accounts correctly. And while Mrs C has provided this further invoice, Im not satisfied it
shows further work has been needed which relates to Lloyds error in setting up accounts in
Mrs Cs name incorrectly. So, Im not going to tell Lloyds to pay any more for Fs costs than
Its agreed to already.
Ive looked at the invoice Mrs C provided for Gs costs and can see Lloyds has agreed to pay
the full invoice of £360. As Lloyds has agreed to pay the full invoice, Im satisfied thats fairand reasonable as there arent any other costs for G which Lloyds hasnt agreed to pay.
However, I have also noted that G said Mrs C had lost out on £65 as shed overpaid what
she owed for tax. I can also see that Lloyds has previously agreed to pay this amount to Mrs
C, which Im satisfied is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The other charges Mrs C has claimed for are the costs from R. And this is where matters
arent as clear. This is because Mrs C has said she has a relationship with R as an
employer. She also has a relationship with R as the lay Deputy for her son and finally has a
relationship with R in her own personal capacity. Mrs C has provided invoices shes paid to
R in her capacity as a lay Deputy for her son and in her personal capacity. However, the
invoices dont separate the costs between these two relationships. Its therefore not possible
to see which costs Mrs C has incurred which relate solely to the error by Lloyds.
Even if I could establish what R has charged Mrs C to resolve the issue with Lloyds. Im not
satisfied it would be fair and reasonable to tell Lloyds to cover this cost. I say this because
there isnt a requirement to be represented to bring a complaint to us. However, Lloyds has
offered to pay Mrs C £2,000 towards the costs shes incurred for R. As Im not persuaded its
fair and reasonable for Lloyds to cover Rs costs, Im satisfied Lloyds is acting fairly and
reasonably by agreeing to pay £2,000 towards them. Im therefore not going to tell Lloyds to
pay anything more.
Finally, Ive considered the considerable unnecessary distress and inconvenience Lloyds
caused Mrs C by incorrectly setting up the accounts. This led to Mrs C having problems with
her tax code, her income being reduced for several months and a fraud investigation which
could have resulted in Mrs C not being able to continue in her role as a lay Deputy for her
son. While I have summarised the impact this has had, I would like to assure Mrs C that Ive
carefully considered this and appreciate how distressing and inconvenient it would have
been. Im therefore satisfied that Lloyds should substantially compensate her for this, and Im
pleased to see Lloyds has agreed to pay Mrs C £4,000 for the distress and inconvenience it
caused. I understand Mrs C doesnt think this is enough, but Im not persuaded Lloyds needs 
to pay more than it has agreed to.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. Mrs C didnt accept it and provided a detailed 
response. In summary she said: she hasnt incurred additional costs because of the ISA 
transfer; the ISA transfer issue is still unresolved; that she hasnt provided any invoices in 
her capacity as deputy for her son and the invoices provided to this service are in her 
personal capacity; that all the invoices provided relate solely to Lloyds error; that the 
invoices provided also relate to having to deal with this matter before the complaint was 
referred here. She also said the invoices from R are for over £17,000 before the complaint 
was referred here. Mrs C also said this is an extremely complex matter which two 
ombudsmen have been continually confused by so what chance would a lay person have; 
that Fs latest invoice says that these tasks would not have needed to be done but for 
Lloyds error, so without the help provided Mrs C said she wouldnt have been able to deal 
with these complex matters.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure Mrs C that I have thought about her response carefully, but Ive not 
been persuaded to change from the findings in my provisional decision. 
Mrs C has said she hasnt incurred more costs because of the ISA transfer. While it may be 
the case that I misunderstood if Mrs C had, the ISA transfer isnt part of this complaint, Im therefore not making a finding on whether Mrs C has incurred more costs or not, or whether 
it's fair and reasonable for Lloyds to cover them if she has. I understand Mrs C raised the 
ISA transfer to highlight the issue is still ongoing and show another failing of Lloyds. But as 
the ISA wasnt originally set up incorrectly, its not something Im able to consider in this 
complaint. 
Regarding Mrs C saying that all invoices provided relate to her personal dealings. I noted in 
Mrs Cs response she said shes incurred costs from R in relation to this matter totalling over 
£17,00 before the complaint came to us. Within this figure Mrs C quoted three invoices for 
the work R completed, one for £12,155, another for £1,423.50 and the third for £3,499.59. 
Ive reviewed these invoices and those for £12,155 and £1,423.50 say:
To case management, advice and support of [Mrs C] both in her personal 
capacity and as Deputy for her son [name] between 5th February 2019 and 
the 30th May 2019 regarding the complex consequences following 
erroneous information provided by Lloyds bank to HMRC
And 
To case management, advice and support of [Mrs C] both in her personal 
capacity and as Deputy for her son [name] between 31st May 2019 and 
the 9th July 2019 regarding the consequences following erroneous 
information provided by Lloyds bank to HMRC
As two of the invoices provided say theyre for advice and support in both Mrs Cs sole 
capacity and that as Deputy for her son, Im not persuaded they are for work done solely in 
her personal capacity. Furthermore, while I appreciate Mrs C said she needed this advice, 
even before coming to this service, Im not satisfied its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to 
cover them. This is because there is no need to be represented to raise a complaint with 
Lloyds or to bring the complaint here. So, while Mrs C said she needed the advice, it doesnt 
automatically mean its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to pay more than its offered. Im 
therefore not going to tell Lloyds to pay anymore.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C, and while this has been a long and 
complex matter. It doesnt mean Im persuaded Lloyds needs to do more than it has already 
agreed to.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partly uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank Plc to pay Mrs C:
1. £9,780 for the cost of help from F
2. £360 for the cost of help from G
3. £2,000 for the cost of help from R
4. £65 to cover the additional amount Mrs C paid in tax
5. £4,000 to compensate for distress and inconvenience
6. 8% simple interest per year should be added to 1,2,3 & 4 above, calculated from 
the date Mrs C paid the costs until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Alex NewmanOmbudsman