DRN-2699629
The complaint
Mr A complains about the poor service he received from Nationwide Building Society 
(NWBS) relating to his request to have a cheque recredited to his account.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr A visited a branch of NWBS to request the recredit of a bank cheque 
for £85, which NWBS has said was originally issued in February 2020.  Mr H says the 
branch staff didnt appear to know what the process was as he felt they took a considerable 
amount of time to process the transaction. 
Mr A says the branch staff told him the cheque would take up to 14 days to be recredited to 
his account. Mr H was unhappy with this because he says he carried out a very similar 
process previously, at the same branch, for the same amount which had been credited the 
same day. 
Mr A says that after he left the branch, he called NWBS head office to complain about the 
situation. Mr A says his phone calls had been disconnected on two occasions. NWBS 
confirmed that it was the customer service helpline that had done this.
Mr A says as he didnt have enough money to get a bus, he had to start walking home. 
However, Mr A says that he noticed while on his way home that the cheque had been 
recredited to his account.
On 4 October 2020 NWBS sent Mr A their final response (FRL) to his complaint. NWBS 
didnt think Mr A received poor service from the branch. NWBS explained that the branch 
followed the correct recrediting process, but as Mr A was unhappy, they authorised an 
exception to the process which allowed the cheque to be recredited the same day. 
NWBS upheld Mr As complaint about the service he received while on the phone to the 
customer services helpline where his phone call had been disconnected twice. NWBS 
offered Mr A £25 in compensation for this.
Mr A was unhappy with the response from NWBS so brought his complaint to us here. One 
of our investigators looked into his concerns but felt NWBS had correctly followed their 
process and made an exception to pay the funds sooner. The investigator also felt NWBS 
had fairly compensated Mr A for the service he received whilst on the phone to their 
customer services helpline.  
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr A has asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me there are three key issues for me to consider in relation to this complaint:
1. has NWBS treated Mr A fairly?
2. has Mr A been fairly compensated for any poor service? 
has NWBS treated Mr A fairly?
Mr A was told by the branch that the cheque could take up to 14 days to recredit his account. 
NWBS have told us thats because the cheque hadnt been cashed within six months from 
issue, and that beyond six months providers have discretion to honour the cheques which 
could involve an investigation. NWBS explained in their FRL that the timescale is provided in 
order to manage their members expectations. 
NWBS have provided us with a flow chart for corporate cheques that are more than six 
months old, although this doesnt mention the 14-day waiting period the flow chart does 
specify having to contact another department for further guidance. The branch provided a 
statement of events. They explained that when presented with the cheque they called their 
corporate cheque team who said theyd need a to complete a specific form as the cheque 
was older than six months. The statement advised that this would normally take up to 14 
days for a recredit. 
A standard cheque clearing cycle would usually take around four days before it can be 
drawn against. However, the recrediting process is somewhat different. Additional factors 
are taken into consideration like verifying the cheque hadnt been reported lost or stolen, 
separately reissued, or as explained earlier that an investigation hadnt been required.
Mr A said that the timescales given to him were specific to him based on his history and 
background. I havent seen any evidence to support this, and Ive already established some 
of the considerations of the recrediting process, so Im persuaded this wasnt the case here.
NWBS explained that to have the cheque credited on the same day the branch had to 
authorise an exception to the process. So, it seems the decision by the branch to depart 
from the standard process actually helped Mr A, because the money had been credited 
much sooner. 
Im satisfied NWBS gave Mr A accurate information based on their recrediting process, and I 
think it would have been fair had the branch decided to follow that process. However, as 
they decided to depart from it in favour of Mr A, by authorising the exception to reduce the 
wait time, Im satisfied that Mr A had been treated fairly by the branch. 
However, Mr A advised that his phone calls had been cut off on two occasions when he 
called the customer services helpline. NWBS also confirmed this and acknowledged that it 
shouldnt have happened in that way. So, in this instance I dont think Mr A had been treated 
fairly. 
has Mr A been fairly compensated for any poor service? 
NWBS has offered Mr A £25 in compensation for the service he was provided over the 
phone.  I think this is fair in the circumstances. The situation that Mr A found himself in 
having left the branch without the funds in his account, was undoubtedly unfortunate for Mr 
A, but it wasnt down to any failings from NWBS. I think £25 is a fair amount of compensation 
for the service Mr A received over the phone.
My final decisionTo settle the complaint Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay Mr A 
£25 compensation. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr A £25 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman