DRN-4406240
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) continued to contact him after he 
closed his accounts.
What happened
Mr R closed his Barclays accounts in September 2022. He says that Barclays continued to 
send him marketing messages by text and email after this. He didnt want to receive these, 
so he contacted Barclays in October 2022. Mr R says that Barclays told him it would make 
the necessary changes and the messages would stop after 4 November 2022. But he 
continued to receive emails after that date.
Mr R called Barclays again in January and raised a complaint. Barclays apologised that he 
was still receiving messages. It removed his contact details from its records and added a 
suppression marker. It said it had asked the credit card side of the business to do the same. 
Barclays paid Mr R £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Bur Mr R continued to receive emails, so he contacted Barclays again in March. He wanted 
all communications to stop immediately and said that customers should be opted out of 
marketing communications as soon as their accounts are closed.
Barclays identified that the credit card side of the business hadnt taken all the necessary 
steps to stop marketing material being sent. It corrected this but said it could take up to eight 
weeks for all marketing communications to stop. Barclays apologised for the inconvenience 
this caused. It said it only opts a customer out of receiving marketing material if this is 
requested by the customer: it doesnt happen automatically. Barclays said it had provided Mr 
Rs feedback to the relevant team and that his comments would be addressed internally.
Mr R remained unhappy about the situation and asked this service to look at the complaint. 
In early May, he was still receiving emails. He wanted them to stop completely and said that 
Barclays should pay him some compensation for the inconvenience. He said it should 
update its software so that all emails are automatically stopped when customers close their 
accounts. He was also concerned as to whether his accounts had been closed properly.
Barclays said it had added all the appropriate markers to Mr Rs accounts and personal 
record and that he should no longer receive any communication. It said that his account had 
still been showing as open with a zero balance for a while after he switched to another bank, 
but it confirmed that the account was closed in January. Barclays offered Mr R a further £50 
to recognise the additional distress and inconvenience to him. But Mr R was still receiving 
emails in September, so he didnt think £50 was enough.
Barclays confirmed that it had opted Mr R out of all forms of marketing of any Barclays 
products and deleted his email address and mobile phone number from its system. It 
reviewed the email which he received in September. It said this was about a reward scheme 
which, although linked to Barclays, is run by a different company which Ill call V. It said that 
the emails about the reward scheme were sent by V, who administers the scheme and Mr 
Rs reward account. Barclays said it couldnt do anything to stop these emails as they 
werent controlled by Barclays systems. It said that Mr R should log into his reward account 
and update his details there.
Our Investigator thought that Barclays offer of £50 was fair in the circumstances. But Mr R 
didnt agree.  He has now closed his reward account an opted out of marketing 
communications from V. But he says that Barclays should have told him earlier that these 
messages were from V, as this would have saved a lot of time and inconvenience. He says 
he spent many hours on the phone to Barclays trying to sort this out, as well as sending 
numerous emails and referring the complaint to this service. He doesnt think £50 is fair in 
the circumstances and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that the messages about the reward scheme were sent by V. As to the 
actions that were within Barclays control, Im satisfied that Mr Rs accounts have been 
closed on Barclays system and that Barclays has updated Mr Rs marketing preferences. It 
has recorded that he would prefer not to be contacted by Barclays by any method. So, I 
dont think Barclays needs to take any further action to stop communications.
But Barclays accepts that it didnt take all the necessary steps at the outset to stop 
communications being sent to Mr R. He first raised the issue in October 2022 and called 
several times that month. He said that contact hadnt stopped by January and thats when 
the complaint was logged. In response, Barclays said it had now removed Mr Rs mobile 
phone number and email address from its records and added a suppression marker. It asked 
the credit card area of the business to do the same. So, I find that those actions hadnt been 
taken before January. I think was a mistake by Barclays in light of Mr Rs contact in October.
Its clear that Mr R was unhappy about the ongoing communications and had been 
inconvenienced by them. Barclays paid him £75 in recognition of this which I think was fair. 
Mr R accepted this at the time, so I understand he was happy with the level of compensation 
for issues up to that point.
But Mr R continued to receive messages, so he contacted Barclays again in March and the 
complaint was re-opened. At that point, Barclays identified that the necessary suppressions 
hadnt all been put in place on the credit card side of the business. It took further steps to 
stop the communications. It told Mr R that it could take up to eight weeks for all marketing 
communications to stop. So, I find that marketing communications in relation to the credit 
card hadnt been stopped fully before March, despite Mr Rs clear request for no further 
contact and Barclays comments in January that the messages would be suppressed. I think 
this was a further mistake by Barclays. I think it should pay some further compensation to Mr 
R to reflect the impact of this.
Barclays has offered a further £50 but Mr R isnt happy with that. He says the issue could 
have been resolved much earlier if Barclays had told him that these emails were sent by V. I 
can understand his point of view. But I dont think its unreasonable that this didnt come to 
light until September. Thats because its clear from Barclays response at the end of March 
that Barclays itself hadnt taken all necessary steps to stop marketing communications 
relating to the credit card. So, I think it was a reasonable assumption that this was why Mr R 
was still receiving messages in May, when this service began to investigate the complaint. 
In early September, Mr R provided an email which he had just received about credit card 
rewards. The action taken in March meant that communications should have stopped by the end of May at the latest. So, the fact that Mr R had received a message in September 
indicated that something else needed to be changed. Barclays asked to see the message 
and, upon reviewing it, identified that it was sent by V. I can appreciate Mr Rs frustration, but 
I dont think Barclays had reason to investigate this before September. Between May and 
September, Barclays wasnt aware that Mr R was still receiving emails.
Mr R has explained how he has been affected by this situation. He found it stressful and 
inconvenient to receive ongoing communications after his account was closed. He was told 
on more than one occasion that Barclays had updated its systems, but the correct actions 
werent all taken within Barclays until March. Mr R says he spent well over a hundred hours 
phoning, sending emails and trying to sort out this problem. I dont doubt that the situation 
was frustrating and inconvenient for him.
But I havent seen anything to suggest that the amount of contact from Barclays was 
excessive or that the content of its messages was distressing or required any action on Mr 
Rs part. So, I dont think the impact of Barclays mistakes was significant here or warranted 
such significant time input by Mr R. The messages he was most unhappy about were from 
V. Barclays wasnt responsible for sending those and I dont find it to be Barclays fault that 
Mr R received them. So, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything about those.
Mr R says that £50 isnt proportionate to the stress and inconvenience he has suffered. I 
realise he feels strongly about this and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I think a further £50 
(which brings the total compensation for this complaint to £125) is a fair reflection of the 
impact of Barclays mistakes. So Im going to direct Barclays to pay this to Mr R.
Finally, Mr R has said he would like Barclays to change its process so that other customers 
wont have the same experience as him. Our Investigator explained that this isnt something 
we can direct Barclays to do, as its not the role of this service to tell businesses what 
processes and systems they should have in place. I agree with our Investigators comments 
about this.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay a further 
£50 to Mr R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman