DRN-3980400
The complaint
Ms C complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to notify her shed only 
requested a partial switch rather than a full switch when transferring her current account to 
them. 
Ms Cs also unhappy that issues experienced during the switch werent covered by the 
current account switch guarantee and that she didnt receive a £200 welcome bonus.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I understand my decision isnt what Ms C wanted, I agree with the 
overall conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why:
First, Nationwide have acknowledged the communication sent to Ms C didnt specify 
if the switch shed applied for was either a partial or full switch. Theyve said her 
feedback on this has been taken on board and may be used to improve processes in 
the future.
But I must consider whats happened in all the circumstances of this case to decide if 
Nationwide were at fault and, to be satisfied they acted fairly and reasonably.
Theres no dispute here that a partial switch was carried out by Nationwide. A full 
switch would have included them requiring Ms Cs account with another provider to 
be closed as part of the process.
Ms C says she applied for a full switch, so my first consideration has been if there 
was an error by Nationwide in processing the switch, or if the wrong type of switch 
was applied for.
The account switch section of Nationwides website makes several references to the 
features of both full and partial switches, such as the automatic closure of an account 
with another provider and the transfer of the balance held on that account.
Further, when completing her application, Ms C was asked the question Do you 
want us to close your old account?. This key question would determine if a full or 
partial switch was applied for.
Ive seen a record of Ms Cs application. It shows a partial switch was applied for. 
This means No was selected when the Do you want us to close your old account? 
question was asked. Selecting no meant Ms C was presented with information of 
what the switch being applied for would include, and if the switch chosen would be 
covered by the Current Account Switch Guarantee.
As Ms C didnt ask Nationwide to close her old account, a pop-up then informed her 
that her switch would not be covered by the Current Account Switch Guarantee, and 
her old account would be left open. So, whilst I understand Ms Cs frustration, and I 
dont doubt it was a full account switch she wanted. Im satisfied this isnt what she 
applied for, and that no error was made by Nationwide when processing her switch.
It follows, because Im satisfied no error occurred during Nationwides processing of 
Ms Cs switch, the partial switch applied for, and the subsequent issue she faced with 
her direct debit, wasnt covered by the Current Account Switch Guarantee. And she 
didnt meet the criteria to qualify for the £200 welcome bonus.
Ms C says the correspondence sent by Nationwide led her to believe shed 
completed a full switch. Im pleased Nationwide have said her feedback will be taken 
on board. And of course, in the circumstances of this case, it would have been useful 
for Nationwides post application correspondence to state it was a partial switch that 
had been applied for, but that doesnt mean I think Nationwide have done anything 
wrong. Ultimately their correspondence didnt confirm, either way, the type of switch 
applied for.
And by this stage Ms C had already applied for her switch. Shed completed an 
online application which Im satisfied set out the options available in a fair, clear and 
not misleading manner. I think it was reasonable for Nationwide to process her 
application in line with the instructions they received.
While I appreciate Ms C will be disappointed with my findings, in the circumstances of this 
case, Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably, and that no error occurred. So, I 
wont be asking them to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman