DRN-2480339
The complaint
Ms T complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) failed to inform her 
that by moving her pensions into a drawdown account, shed be unable to partially transfer 
her funds to another provider. She says SJPs misinformation and delays led to a financial 
loss. 
  
What happened
Ms T has had a long relationship with SJP since 2006.
In 2014 SJP recommended that Ms T transfer three of her previous pensions and 
consolidate them into an SJP retirement plan. Ms T partially followed the recommendation, 
transferring two of the three pensions to SJP.
In 2017 SJP say Ms T had an objective of releasing tax-free cash from her pension in order 
to complete some home renovations. SJP gave a recommendation to move Ms Ts 
retirement plan into a drawdown retirement account which would allow a maximum of 25% of 
the funds to be taken as tax-free cash. The residual balance could remain invested and 
drawn down as and when required. 
Ms T followed this recommendation and released around £18,000 of tax-free cash. 
Later in 2017, SJP gave a further recommendation to transfer a further two of Ms Ts 
personal pensions into a drawdown retirement account. The objective was to release further 
tax-free cash to complete the home renovations. Approximately £138,000 was transferred in 
order to release approximately £34,000 in tax-free cash.
In April 2019 Ms T says she contacted SJP about the performance of her funds. SJP 
responded by saying that her pension had grown by 8.1% which they were satisfied with. Ms 
T says she sent three emails to SJP to clarify this figure, but she says SJP ignored her 
emails. 
In December 2019 Ms T called SJPs administration team to ask how much of her pension 
she could transfer away from SJP without incurring a penalty. Ms T says SJP told her she 
could transfer approximately £84,000 of her pension without incurring an early withdrawal 
charge (EWC). Thats because the original funds invested in 2014 were no longer subject to 
any EWCs. 
Ms T decided to partially transfer her pension to another pension provider (PP). Throughout 
January and February 2020, she had several conversations with SJP. SJP said Ms T 
needed to complete a transfer form. And SJP say they sent the form to Ms T twice. But Ms T 
realised the form was initially sent to a previous address of hers and so she asked for it to be 
sent via email. During this period the PP also contacted SJP to try and arrange the partial 
transfer. But SJP had told them the account number Ms T had given PP was incorrect.
In February 2020 the advisor from SJP also told Ms T that shed be able to transfer 
approximately £84,000 of her funds without paying EWCs. But he later told Ms T that she 
was unable to partially transfer her funds unless she was buying an annuity with them.
Ms T complained to SJP. She said shed emailed SJP three times in April 2019 when she 
was unhappy with how her portfolio had performed but they didnt reply. She also 
complained that shed been given conflicting information about the penalties of transferring 
her pension. She was unhappy with the customer service shed received and the delays in 
transferring her funds.
In their response SJP said theyd given Ms T incorrect information when shed called the 
administration team. They also acknowledged their advisor had given incorrect information 
to Ms T about partially transferring her pension. They said Ms T wasnt able to partially 
transfer her funds unless she was purchasing an annuity with the partial transfer. They said 
the forms they sent Ms T in February 2020 held correct information that a partial transfer 
could only be completed if it was to purchase an annuity. 
SJP went on to say the level of service theyd given Ms T didnt meet their expectations. In 
order to resolve the complaint SJP offered to waive all of the EWCs associated with Ms Ts 
retirement account if she chose to transfer her entire funds within six months of their 
response. SJP also offered Ms T £250 for the upset theyd caused her. 
Ms T remained unhappy and so brought her complaint to our service. Ms T also said SJP 
had failed to review her SIPP in 2018 and 2019. So, she wanted a refund on her fees for 
those years. 
Our investigator said SJP should have made Ms T aware that she wasnt able to partially 
transfer her funds to PP unless it was to purchase an annuity. Instead, she was told by both 
their administration centre and her advisor that she could. But our investigator didnt think Ms 
T had suffered a financial loss as she was never able to partially transfer her funds as she 
wished without incurring a penalty. They also thought SJPs offer to waive the EWCs and 
pay £250 for the upset theyd caused was a fair offer in all the circumstances.
Ms T didnt agree with our investigators opinion. She said SJP hadnt explained to her about 
the regulations preventing a partial transfer when she moved her funds into drawdown. And 
if they had, she wouldnt have taken the 25% tax free cash. Ms T remained unhappy with 
SJPs advisors actions and said the transfer forms were unclear about whether a partial 
transfer was allowed. As Ms T disagreed, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have made detailed submissions including a number of points to support their 
arguments. Ive considered all of the submissions carefully. But I wont address each and 
every point when setting out my findings. In keeping with the informal nature of our service 
Ive focused on the matters that I consider most relevant to how Ive reached my decision. 
Ive first considered whether SJP fulfilled its obligations to review Ms Ts SIPP in 2018 and 
2019. Ms Ts pension transfers were only completed in late 2017 and SJP say they spoke 
with Ms T in January 2018 about the performance of her funds. Ive seen evidence that SJP 
sent Ms T fund information around that time and Ms T says she then went abroad working 
for a year. In April 2019 SJP again seemed to have reviewed Ms Ts account and offered to 
meet with her. I appreciate this was at the time that SJPs advisor was difficult to contact but SJP had said they were satisfied with the performance of Ms Ts funds at that time. So, I 
dont think it would be reasonable to refund the ongoing advisor fees. 
Ive then considered whether SJP have fairly applied EWCs and if they should have told 
Ms T at an earlier point that she couldnt partially transfer her funds to another provider. 
SJP sent us a copy of the relevant terms and conditions of the retirement account from 2014 
and 2017. And Im satisfied that the terms and conditions allowed SJP to apply an EWC to 
funds that had been invested for less than six years.
In the second suitability report of 2017 SJP explained that the retirement account was 
subject to an annual withdrawal allowance of 7.5% of the investment. If funds were 
withdrawn in excess of the allowance an EWC would be applied. The report confirmed to 
Ms T that the funds already held in her retirement account wouldnt be subject to an EWC, 
because theyd already been invested in the retirement plan before being transferred. But 
the new funds that were transferred in from different schemes would be subject to EWCs. 
Ms T is unhappy that SJP didnt explain that she couldnt partially transfer her funds to a new 
provider unless she was using the funds to purchase an annuity. And I havent seen any 
evidence that she was ever told this prior to trying to complete a partial transfer in 2019. 
SJP werent able to partially transfer Ms Ts funds due to the relevant rules under Section 
169(1D) of the Finance Act 2004. The rules say that when transferring assets held under a 
drawdown fund, the transfer will only be a recognised transfer if all of the sums and assets 
are transferred as part of the transfer. A transfer of only part of the drawdown funds cannot 
be a recognised transfer. 
Ms T says she should have been told about these rules when she first transferred her plans 
and says that she wouldnt have taken her tax-free cash if shed known about these rules. 
However, the 2017 suitability report says Ms T had no intention of drawing funds from her 
pension for at least five years. So, I think its likely that at the time of the advice in 2017, 
neither Ms T or SJP would have known Ms T would want to transfer her funds within five 
years. Especially as Ms T says the reason for wanting the transfer in 2019 was due to poor 
performance of her funds which SJP couldnt have foreseen. Its also not the case that Ms T 
is prevented from transferring her funds to another provider to be reinvested. Its just that 
she cannot partially transfer her funds, she would need to transfer them in their entirety.     
There are many rules and regulations concerning pensions which can also be quite complex. 
Id expect a business to ensure their client is aware of the rules that are likely to affect them. 
But it wouldnt be practical to ensure clients were aware of every rule or regulations that 
could have an effect on their clients pension if an unforeseen event should occur. And as 
Ive said, in 2017 I dont think SJP were expecting Ms T to want to partially transfer her 
funds. Therefore, I think it was reasonable that SJP didnt explained this particular rule to 
Ms T before it applied to her when she wanted to transfer her funds in 2020.
When Ms T first called SJPs administration team in December 2019, she should have been 
told that it wasnt possible to partially transfer her funds to another provider to reinvest them. 
But she wasnt. Ms T was given the expectation that shed be able to transfer around 
£84,000 of her funds to her new provider without a penalty. And SJPs advisor gave her 
further expectations that it would be possible to partially transfer her funds when she spoke 
to him. So, I think the error SJP made here was giving Ms T an expectation that she could 
partially transfer her funds to another provider when she couldnt. My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Ms T back into the position she would likely 
have been in, had it not been for SJPs error. 
Its difficult to be sure what someone would have done if the correct information had been 
given. But I think, on balance, Ms T would have remained with SJP at least until the EWCs 
had reduced or no longer applied. I say that because Ms T wasnt looking to transfer the 
funds that EWCs applied to and a partial transfer to reinvest the funds with another provider 
simply wasnt possible. Therefore, I dont think Ms T suffered a financial loss by not being 
told the correct information from the start.
Ms T says there was a delay in trying to transfer her funds when SJP told PP the account 
number they provided was wrong. PPs letters to Ms T included the correct account number 
and so I can appreciate Ms Ts frustration at being told the account number was wrong when 
the evidence shows it wasnt. But I dont think this led to a delay in the transfer because as 
Ive said, Ms T still wasnt allowed to partially transfer her funds as shed planned - even if 
SJP had accepted the account number from PP. So, I dont think Ms T suffered a financial 
loss in this respect either.   
In recognition of their errors, SJP offered to waive all of the EWCs for Ms Ts retirement 
account so that she could transfer her entire pension to another provider without incurring 
any penalties within six months of their final response letter. They also offered her £250 for 
the trouble and upset their misinformation has given her. 
SJP had given Ms T an expectation that shed be able to partially transfer her funds which 
was incorrect. I appreciate that being told one thing and then another was upsetting for Ms 
T. SJP also acknowledged that their customer service had fallen below their expectations. 
And I agree with that, as evidence shows SJPs advisor didnt always respond to Ms Ts 
communications. However, I think £250 fairly reflects the upset caused to Ms T. 
SJP also offered to waive the EWCs so that Ms T could transfer her funds penalty free. That 
wasnt something the terms of her policy allowed for and would have allowed Ms T to 
transfer her entire funds to another provider should she have still wanted to. SJP have 
confirmed that they are still willing to waive the EWCs should Ms T wish to move her funds 
away from them. And so, she should contact SJP if she wishes to take them up on their 
offer. In all the circumstance of this case, I think SJPs offer of redress was fair. So, I wont 
ask them to do anything more.
My final decision
Im aware that St. James Place Wealth Management Plc have made an offer to pay Ms T 
£250 for the misinformation they gave. I conclude such an offer is fair and reasonable in all 
circumstances of this complaint. St. James Place Wealth Management Plc should now pay 
Ms T £250 if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman