DRN-4174862
The complaint
A company I will refer to as C complains about Liberty Seguros Compania de Seguros Y 
Reaseguros, S.As (Liberty) handling of its claim following the total loss of several vehicles 
due to a fire, under its commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
C says that as a result of an arson attack five of its commercial vehicles were destroyed. It 
says this included specialist cherry picker class vehicles. Because of this C arranged for an 
independent assessor to inspect the damaged vehicles and provide a valuation. The 
valuation came to a total of £43,500. C says Liberty carried out a desktop valuation of its 
vehicles. But this only came to £24,750. It says its assessor performed a more thorough 
inspection and Liberty should pay the higher value. 
After the arson attack C says it arranged for the vehicles to be recovered to a place where 
they could be stored and inspected. It says there was diesel leaking from the vehicles 
causing an environmental hazard. The cost of recovery and clean up came to £22,500. C 
says Liberty offered £5,000. It said this was in line with general market pricing. C doesnt 
agree and thinks Liberty should pay what it cost to have this work done.  
C also complains that Liberty settled a claim from September 2021 involving one of its 
vehicles. It says a court date had been agreed to defend Cs position. But Liberty cancelled 
this to settle the claim against its wishes. 
The final complaint point C raised is that Liberty cancelled its insurance policy, which means 
it now pays more for its cover. It says the reason it gave for the cancellation is that its 
vehicles didnt have MOT test certificates. But C says test dates arent readily available in its 
part of the country. It says it has however, provided proof that all its vehicles were fully 
maintained. C says the cancellation has meant its premiums increasing from £3,000 to 
around £10,000 per year. In addition, its lost contracts because it couldnt afford the 
necessary insurance.
In its complaint response Liberty says it appointed an experienced engineer to value each of 
Cs vehicles. It acknowledges its valuations differ from Cs and says its engineer reviewed 
the valuations in light of Cs dispute. But it didnt find reason to make a change. Liberty says 
it asked C for purchase receipts or other evidence to demonstrate the cost of its vehicles. 
But C hasnt provided this information. It says without this it cant consider the matter further. 
Liberty says the cost of recovery of Cs vehicles has been grossly inflated. It says its offer 
is based on market pricing and is reasonable. 
In its complaint response Liberty says it tries to settle all accident claims fairly with 
consideration of the costs. It says the settlement of the claim highlighted by C was reached 
reasonably based on the advice of its solicitors. Liberty says C agreed to this settlement. 
C didnt think Liberty had treated it fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint in part. She explained our service doesnt provide 
valuations for vehicles, but we will look to see that an insurer has acted fairly when 
establishing a market value. Our investigator was only able to obtain a valuation for one of 
the vehicles using the industry trade guides. This was less than Liberty had offered for this 
vehicle. Based on this she thought the settlement offer for this vehicle appeared reasonable. 
For the remaining vehicles our investigator thought the valuation report C provided was more 
persuasive than that provided by Libertys engineer. She says the business should base its 
settlement on this valuation and pay 8% interest on the difference between this and the 
amount it originally paid.  
The arson attack occurred on 9 July 2022. C contacted Liberty on 11 July 2022, and a claim 
was registered two days later. It says this was due to a public holiday. Contact was made 
with C via Libertys recovery agent five days after this. Our investigator says its reasonable 
to expect C to agree costs with Liberty before appointing its own recovery agents. Because it 
hadnt, she thought Libertys offer was reasonable. But she says if its recovery agent 
wouldve charged more than this it should pay the higher amount, plus 8% interest on the 
difference. 
Liberty was provided with CCTV footage of the accident C had disputed responsibility for. It 
received this prior to the arranged court date. This showed both drivers involved would likely 
be considered at fault for the accident. Based on this our investigator didnt think Liberty had 
treated C unfairly when making the decision to settle out of court. 
Finally, our investigator didnt think Liberty acted unfairly when cancelling the policy. She 
says Libertys argument that C hadnt provided adequate proof that its vehicles were 
roadworthy, was reasonable. She says this is a requirement of Cs policy terms and it hadnt 
provided evidence to show all its vehicles complied with these requirements.  
Liberty accepted our investigators findings. C didnt and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider the matter. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Let me explain. 
Ive set my decision out under the relevant headings. 
1. Valuation 
Ive read Cs policy terms to understand what is expected when an insured vehicle is 
considered a total loss. There is no dispute that all the vehicles were completely destroyed. 
The terms say:
If the Insured Vehicle is lost or damaged, the Insurers will indemnify the Policyholder by at 
their own option, repairing or replacing the Insured Vehicle or paying the amount of the loss 
or damage.
The Insurers liability in respect of the Insured Vehicle shall not exceed the market value 
immediately prior to such loss or damage or the Policyholders estimate of value notified to 
the Insurers, whichever is the lesser.Our investigator has explained our services approach to vehicle valuations. We dont 
provide valuations for vehicles but rather we look to see whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations 
from the motor trade guides. 
These guides are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be
persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales 
figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take all other available 
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought Libertys settlement offer, for the vehicle shed managed to get a 
valuation for, was fair and reasonable. Ive checked to see that the correct make and model 
of vehicle was used in the valuation, which they were. As Liberty offered more than the trade 
guide valuation we obtained, I dont think its offer for this vehicle was unreasonable.     
However, our investigator could only obtain one valuation from the trade guides. I also tried 
to obtain valuations from the four guides we generally use. But no further valuations were 
available.
Ive looked at the engineer reports provided by both C and Liberty. I agree with our 
investigator that the valuation report C provided is more detailed following an in-person 
inspection by the engineer. It contains descriptions of the additional features not mentioned 
by Libertys engineer, which includes details of the specialist equipment attached to or 
included within Cs vehicles. It also provides commentary on the availability of these vehicles 
in the current second-hand market, advising several of the vehicles are scarce. 
Libertys engineer performed a desktop valuation only. He used the correct make and 
models of the loss vehicles. But there is otherwise limited information to support the value 
placed on Cs vehicles.  
Based on this evidence Im more persuaded that Cs valuations give a fairer reflection of the 
market value of the vehicles at the time of the loss. My intention is that Liberty should pay 
the valuations, set out in Cs report, in settlement of the claim. Where a range has been 
given, Liberty should pay the average value.  
2. Recovery costs
C says it arranged for a contractor to remove the burnt-out vehicles to a safe storage facility 
and to clean up leaked diesel from the surrounding area. Ive seen the invoices provided for 
these services. The invoices describe the machinery and operators required to remove the 
vehicles. It says a JCB bucket and brush handler were needed to carry out the following 
work:
clean contaminated, debris from arson fire incident scene + recy low loader.
And:
oil granules detergent agent used plus manpower to clean area of burnt vehicle. 
I can see that C has claimed for the full cost of these services which amounted to over 
£20,000. 
Libertys view is that these charges are excessive for the work that was done. It offered 
£5,000, which it says is what its contractor wouldve charged for this job. I asked Liberty to provide evidence of the charges its contractor confirmed for the work. Its supplied the 
estimate it received from its contractor in support of this point. This supports what it said 
about the expected cost.
Based on this information Libertys contractor couldve completed the recovery and clean up 
works for far less than the contractor C employed.
The sequence of events based on Libertys records and Cs testimony, shows the recovery 
contractor carried out its work on 10 July 2022. This was prior to Liberty being made aware 
of the claim. 
I understand from subsequent correspondence that the vehicles were in a shared car park 
and that the police advised C to arrange removal of the vehicles. In its submissions to our 
service Liberty says it doesnt dispute the appointment of a recovery agent in these 
circumstances. But it says the charges are excessive and C hasnt been willing to negotiate 
a reasonable costing.
I understand the reasons C gave for appointing the recovery agent when it did. But prior to C 
appointing a contractor its reasonable to expect this to have been brought to Libertys 
attention. C didnt give Liberty the opportunity to appoint its own recovery agent or consider 
the costs C had agreed with its contractor. Because of this I dont think it behaved 
unreasonably by offering what its contractor would charge for the work. Based on the 
estimate from libertys contractor - the work specified mirrors the work Cs contractor 
completed. 
I acknowledge it took around five days after the claim was registered for Liberty to contact 
the recovery agent. C says this was too long to wait given the impact of the leaking diesel 
and the impact on the environment. But the fact is C instructed its recovery agent prior 
making any contact with Liberty. In these circumstances I agree with our investigator that its 
fair that Liberty pays what its contractor would charge for the work as it has already agreed.
3. Accident claim outcome
Ive read Cs account of the collision its vehicle was involved in during September 2021. Both 
parties argued the other was at fault. Theres no dispute that court proceedings were initially 
arranged by Liberty to defend its and Cs position. However, Liberty explains a week prior to 
the court date it was provided with CCTV footage of the collision. It says this shows neither 
driver was at fault. It says C was not held liable for the incident and it was settled on a 
Without prejudice No Liability Basis. 
Cs policy terms state the following, under the heading, General conditions  D, Rights of 
the Insurers:
The Insurers are entitled to take over sole control and conduct of any claim at their 
discretion.  
This means its for Liberty to decide how to deal with a claim. This doesnt mean it can act 
anyway it wants to, we still expect an insurer to treat its policyholder fairly. But in these 
circumstances, considering the policy terms and evidence provided, I cant see that it was 
unreasonable for Liberty to settle the claim as it did. 
As the claim was settled on a without prejudice basis C could decide to pursue the matter 
itself through the courts. If its proven that the third party was at fault, Id expect Liberty to 
amend how the claim outcome was recorded. But as it stands, I dont think it behaved 
unfairly in settling the claim as it did. 4. Cancellation 
This issue wasnt raised at the time of Cs initial complaint and wasnt included in Libertys 
response. The business has since provided its rationale for its decision to cancel the policy 
and confirmed our service is able to include this issue within our consideration of Cs 
complaint. 
In its submissions to our service Liberty says C told it the company had changed its name. It 
amended the policy details, as requested, based on this information. It says it subsequently 
found out that the original company and the new company were incorporated at the same 
time. This means the companies were separate legal entities. Liberty says it asked C if there 
were any other changes but was told there werent.  
Liberty says this means the original policy shouldve cancelled. It would then have 
considered new terms to provide cover for the new company. 
Our investigator didnt think it was fair that Liberty recorded the policy as cancelled by the 
insurer. She says it should be recorded as cancelled by the consumer. This is what 
shouldve happened when the name change was first highlighted. 
In response Liberty says the policy would still have been cancelled in August 2022 as C 
could not supply sufficient evidence to confirm its vehicles were roadworthy. 
Our investigator issued a second view. She said the evidence hadnt shown Cs vehicles 
were kept in a roadworthy condition. She referred to the following policy terms in support of 
Libertys decision to cancel the policy:
The Policyholder shall take and cause to be taken all reasonable steps to prevent injury, 
loss or damage and shall maintain the Insured Vehicle or any Trailer in an efficient and 
roadworthy condition. The Insurers shall have free access to examine the Insured Vehicle at 
all reasonable times.
Ive read the information Liberty says it received from C in support of its vehicles being kept 
in a roadworthy condition. I can see that Liberty also refers to a lack of MOTs and tax on a 
number of Cs vehicles involved in the claim. 
Ive considered Cs testimony that its been difficult to arrange an MOT in its part of the 
country. It says this is the result of backlogs dating back to the coronavirus pandemic when 
extensions were granted to the usual MOT requirements and timeframes. It has since 
supplied our service with a volume of receipts showing maintenance and servicing work 
carried out on its vehicles.
It wasnt clear that Liberty had seen all the receipts C included in its submissions to our 
service. We provided this information for it to consider and asked that it provide its 
comments. It responded to say it had seen the receipts previously, which it reviewed as part 
of the claim. Liberty says:
Although the receipts do show maintenance to various vehicles, some of the receipts arent 
specific to any vehicles and highlight minor repairs and maintenance, they do not give an 
overall picture or description of any of the vehicles physical health or if any further repairs 
are required or if any further issues exist.
The main/only way to show the vehicles health are through testing which is why the MOT 
annual checks are in place. The fact that 4 out of the 5 vehicles had no MOT or proof of 
MOT tests dates arranged does not enable us to have confidence that the vehicles should be driven on the roads and minor repairs may not be satisfactory to ensure the 
roadworthiness of the vehicles.
At the time these vehicles were being driven on the roads it was and remains a legal 
obligation to have the vehicles MOTd and Taxed. Again, 4 out of the 5 vehicles could not be 
shown to have one or the other and should not have been driven on the roads without these 
certificates in place. 
 without the MOTs, Tax or dates for MOT tests booked in, it was our opinion that the 
receipts supplied could not prove that the vehicles were roadworthy as they werent specific 
enough and they do not indicate the full physical health of any individual vehicle.
Ive looked at the receipts in detail. Although it does show that maintenance work was 
carried out. I agree with Liberty that its not always clear what work was carried out on which 
vehicle. And this doesnt provide a clear understanding of whether the vehicles were 
considered roadworthy. The established way of determining if this is the case is for the 
vehicles to pass an MOT. 
I acknowledge what C has said about difficulties arranging an MOT. But according to the 
government website the requirement for an MOT hasnt been removed. All vehicles are still 
required to have a current MOT in order to be legally used on public roads. The information 
provided is that drivers wont be penalised where an MOT has expired if it can be shown that 
an appointment has been booked for that vehicle. 
 
Liberty says C hasnt shown that MOT appointments had been booked for its vehicles. C 
hasnt provided evidence of MOT appointment dates to our service either. 
Based on this evidence I dont think Liberty treated C unfairly when cancelling the policy for 
the reasons it gave. C hasnt shown that its vehicles were in a roadworthy condition as 
required by its policy terms. So, I dont think its unreasonable for the policy to show as 
cancelled by the insurer.
Having considered all of this, I dont think Liberty paid C a fair settlement payment for its 
vehicles. It should now base this payment on Cs engineers valuations and pay interest on 
the difference. But I think Liberty acted reasonably in relation to the recovery costs, 
cancellation of the policy, and with respect to the accident claim outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Liberty Seguros Compania de 
Seguros Y Reaseguros, S.A should:
pay C a settlement amount for its vehicle claims based on Cs valuation. Where a 
range of values is provided, the average figure should be used. It should also pay 8% 
simple interest on the difference in settlement figures.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman