DRN-1643968
The complaint
Mr T  on behalf of T Ltd  complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) have unfairly declined his insurance claim following a fire at his business premises.
What happened
Mr T owns a retail business (T Ltd) and holds a retail business protection policy with LV. 
He made a claim under the policy following a fire that broke out in the store room of his shop 
on 1 June 2018. He also submitted a theft claim as a result of stock that was stolen from 
his premises after the fire. 
LV appointed loss adjusters to assess the claim, who in turn appointed forensic investigators 
to establish the likely cause of the fire. Following the investigations and interviews that were 
carried out, LV relied on the reports to repudiate the claim as they concluded that the fire 
was likely a deliberate act of arson on the part of Mr T with the intention of making an 
insurance claim. They invoked the fraud condition and voided the policy from the date of the 
incident, resulting in the fire and theft claims both being refused. 
Mr T complained that LVs decision to void the policy was unfair. In summary, he submits:
The forensic investigators do not know how the fire started, and stated in their report 
that there was not any electrical supply or appliances located at the seat of the fire. 
However, this is incorrect because the London Fire Brigade (LFB) removed a small 
chest freezer which was plugged into a double power socket located on the ceiling.
The forensic investigators failed to take into account the presence of the freezer and 
the electrical supply  so their findings cannot fairly be relied upon. 
The flashes seen in the CCTV were cigarette lighters igniting that were kept on a 
shelf in the store room where the fire broke out. The only explanation for the 
exploding lighters is that the ice freezer was defective and caused them to ignite, and 
this has been overlooked in the course of the investigation. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. She considered that there was no evidence 
of a freezer being plugged in when the fire brigade attended (and took pictures), and that 
there was never any mention of a freezer in any interviews that had been conducted. 
The investigator concluded that LV had not acted unreasonably by voiding the policy based 
on the conclusions of the forensic investigators, who considered it more likely than not that 
the fire had been started deliberately, and who found no evidence of electrical circuits being 
the cause of the fire. And having reviewed the CCTV, which showed Mr T exiting the store 
room shortly before the fire started, the investigator didnt think it was unreasonable to 
conclude that he had started the fire deliberately. 
Mr T disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy state:
If you or anyone acting for you:
a.Knowingly makes a fraudulent or exaggerated claim under Your Policy;
b.Knowingly makes a false statement in support of a claim (whether or not the claim 
itself is genuine); or
c.Knowingly submits a false statement or forged document in support of a claim 
(whether or not the claim itself is genuine)
We will
i.Refuse to pay the claim;
ii.Declare the policy void from the date of the fraud without any refund of premium and
iii.Recover any sums that we have already paid under the policy in respect of the claim.
 
I consider this policy term to be consistent with The Insurance Act 2015 (section 12) which 
sets out the various remedies available to an insurer if it can be shown that a claim has been 
made fraudulently. This includes the right not to pay the claim. But in order to demonstrate 
that a claim has been made fraudulently  which includes exaggerating a claim for financial 
gain  the insurer needs to provide evidence that shows its more likely than not that this is 
the case.
I have also taken account of the Fraud Act 2006, which defines fraud as, amongst other 
things, dishonestly making a false representation, whether express or implied, in order to 
make oneself a gain or cause another loss; and a representation is false if its untrue or 
misleading and the representor knows that it is or might be untrue or misleading.
So the starting point in this case is to consider whether theres enough evidence to say its 
more likely than not that the fire was started deliberately and the claim made fraudulently, 
such that LV have acted reasonably by voiding the policy. 
Ive considered the findings of the forensic investigators, who deliberated the likely cause of 
the fire. They said 
it appears most likely that the fire started on the rack of shelves immediately 
adjacent to the aluminium roller shutter. CCTV footage shows that [Mr T] was the last 
person in the store room; 18 seconds later, a series of intense and frequent flashes 
emanate from within the store room after which the fire developed rapidlyIn my view, 
the cigarette lighters having become involved in the fire and exploding one by one, 
provides the only plausible explanation for the flashes.
Theyve then considered both possibilities of the fire being started accidentally unbeknownst 
to Mr T after he left the room, or of it having been started deliberately. In commenting on 
whether the fire could have started accidentally, the forensic investigators said:
There was no evidence of the fire having started at the ceiling lightI found no 
evidence of an incendive fault in the fixed wiring. [Mr T] told me that there were no 
battery powered electrical items in the area of origin, nor were any mains-powered 
items plugged in; this was consistent with my examination of the scene.However, in terms of the fire being started deliberately, they said:
 I consider the short period of time between [Mr T] leaving the store room and the first 
signs of the fire very unusual. Further, [Mr T] told me that he did not place anything or 
take anything from the shelves when he last visited the store room, nor was he 
carrying anything out. This substantially reduces the likelihood of something having 
been inadvertently knocked over or operated.
So having weighed up the two possibilities, the forensic investigators concluded:
On the available evidence it appears more likely than not that the fire was started 
deliberately shortly before [Mr T] left the store room. However, I have no positive 
physical evidence to support such a scenario.
Mr T submits that the forensic investigators report is flawed because they have failed to 
consider whether the fire was started by a faulty chest freezer. But I do not consider that it is. 
When Mr T was interviewed, he did not mention anything about a freezer being plugged in 
within the store room where the fire started. The forensic investigators also say that Mr T told 
them that no appliances were plugged in at the time of the incident in the store room. The 
pictures taken by the LFB also do not show any fire damaged freezer present within the 
vicinity of the fire damage. Mr T says that the LFB removed the freezer into the rear garden. 
But it seems unlikely that any pictures taken by the LFB with a view to understanding the 
cause of the fire would be taken after the removal of appliances that could have been the 
potential cause. 
The LFB also make no mention of a chest freezer in their report which, if this were to have 
been a potential cause of the fire as Mr T suggests, they would have likely made reference 
to (especially as it would have likely suffered notable fire damage if it was the source of the 
fire). But the LFB report just states:
Source of ignition: Not known
Supposed cause: Unable to determine
Make/model of appliance involved if applicable: [Blank]
So Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest that there was even a chest freezer present 
in the store room at the time of the fire, let alone that it could have been a likely cause. But 
even if there was a freezer in the store room, there is no persuasive evidence to indicate that 
this was the likely cause of the fire. And the forensic investigators considered the electrical 
circuits as a potential cause of the fire in any event, but found no evidence to support this.
When the LFB produced their report, they had not seen a copy of the CCTV that was made 
available to the forensic investigators. They noted that the back door was locked, and that no 
one else could have got into the store room without Mr Ts knowledge, and concluded:
If the CCTV can be viewed and this shows no persons accessing the area then the 
fire must have started from an unidentified electrical event. However, with the limited 
information at present this fires cause has been recorded as not known. 
But the CCTV does indeed show Mr T accessing the area of the fire shortly before it started, 
which seemingly further discounts the possibility of it having been started by an unidentified 
electrical event. I have seen the CCTV footage of the time in question, which shows Mr T 
going in and out of the store room a couple of times immediately before the fire started. He swiftly exits the store room at 21:29 and then the first of a series of bright flashes begin just 
18 seconds later. 
As a result, and given that there is little evidence to suggest the fire had started accidentally, 
the forensic investigators concluded that the fire was likely started deliberately by Mr T when 
he was in the store room. The loss adjusters also concluded that:
In light of the short timeframe between [Mr Ts] leaving the room concerned and the 
commencement of the fire and, in the absence of any items which could explain how it 
started, there would appear to be no plausible explanation for the fire other than that 
[Mr T] set it deliberately.
It is these conclusions that LV have relied on to void the policy on the basis that Mr T had 
acted fraudulently. An insurer is generally entitled to rely on the advice/opinion of their 
appointed experts so long as the experts are appropriately qualified, and so long as there is 
nothing to suggest that the advice is patently flawed. 
I can see from the forensic investigation company's website that the particular investigator 
who inspected Mr Ts premises and compiled the report is appropriately qualified, and his 
relevant experience includes investigating several fires in large industrial plants, as well as 
in commercial and residential premises where he has worked as a fire investigator for 
several years. So there's little to suggest that the forensic investigator was inappropriately 
qualified to make a determination on the likely cause of fire.
As Ive outlined above, Ive also seen no persuasive evidence to suggest that the 
investigators report is patently flawed. I appreciate that Mr T says it was a chest freezer that 
started the fire, but there is little evidence to corroborate this possibility. So I do not consider 
that LV have acted unreasonably be relying on the evidence available to conclude that Mr T 
had deliberately started the fire and had therefore made a fraudulent claim. 
So overall  taking into account all of the above evidence  Im persuaded theres enough 
evidence to suggest it is more likely than not the claim was dishonestly presented (or 
exaggerated) for the purpose of making a gain at LVs expense. Im therefore satisfied it was 
fraudulent. There are also other inconsistencies that have been debated in Mr Ts case, such 
as the testimony of his witnesses changing over the course of time. But I do not find it 
necessary to explore this, given that I consider there to already be enough evidence for LV 
to void the policy.
LV have already chosen a remedy available to them under the Insurance Act 2015, section 
12(1)(a) where they have chosen not to pay the claim. And where part of a claim is 
exaggerated and would materially have prejudiced the insurers liability, they are entitled to 
refuse the entire claim, even if parts of the claim were in fact genuine  as the law does not 
separate the genuine parts from the dishonest part (see the Supreme Court judgment in 
Versloot Dredging v HDI Gerling Industrie Versicherung AG [2016] UKSC 45). 
So, for the reasons given above, I dont think LV acted unreasonably when they refused to 
pay any part of Mr Ts claim on the evidence available. And it follows that I do not uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T  on behalf 
of T Ltd  to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.Jack Ferris
Ombudsman