DRN-3410705
The complaint
Ms B complained that her home contents policy was mis-sold by Automobile Association 
Insurance Services Limited (AA) which led to her claim being subsequently declined by her 
insurer. AA acted as broker for Ms B, so was responsible for the sale and administration of 
the policy.
What happened
Ms B bought a home contents policy insurance via a comparison website to insure the items 
inside her home, which she thought would cover all her contents for accidental damage. Ms 
B said she accidentally spilt a drink on her laptop whilst she was at home, damaging it. So, 
she made a claim on her policy for the laptop which was worth around £1,200.
Ms Bs insurer declined the claim. It said she didnt select the right option when she 
purchased her policy to cover her laptop at home. Ms B raised a complaint against AA who 
was responsible for the sale. She felt her policy was mis-sold. Ms B said the questions 
asked of her were unclear which led to her choosing the incorrect cover. Ms B said one of 
the questions asked was to list any valuables over the value of £1,500, but as her laptop was 
worth less, she didnt list it.
Our investigator decided to not uphold the complaint. He thought the questions Ms B was 
asked when purchasing her policy were clear and he thought documentation AA shared with 
Ms B after the purchase reasonably set out the terms and conditions of the policy. Ms B 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the process that has been followed in the sale of the contents policy to Ms B 
to understand whether the options for cover were clearly set out. I think AA has followed a 
reasonable process in selling the policy to Ms B. I think it has provided options to her to 
allow her to select the correct level of cover appropriate to her. I think it has provided 
opportunity for Ms B to check the policy she had purchased met her needs. Therefore, Im 
going to disappoint Ms B, as Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why I think this.
The policy was bought via a comparison website. So, I have considered what happened 
during this process. Ms B wouldve been asked a standardised set of questions through the 
comparison website, to customise cover and find a selection of insurance providers who 
could offer Ms B suitable cover. During the latter stages of this process, when Ms B 
narrowed down her search to AA she was transferred to the AA website to conclude the 
sales process. At this point Ms B was asked further, more specific questions.
Ms B said during the application I was asked if I wanted to add cover for outside the home, 
including worldwide cover (Section 3), I declined this cover, as it did not say this cover was 
required to cover items in my home, even if it is possible to use them outside of the home.
AA has shared the questions that were asked during the application process via its website. 
A question was asked relating to personal belongings and valuables. The question asked 
was do you need cover for accidental loss or damage for items worth up to £1,500 
individually? Under the question was an information box that read this cover is for inside 
and outside the home and worldwide; and can include damaging a mobile phone, laptop or 
tablet by dropping it, or the theft of a bicycle when its away from the home. Ms B selected 
no to this question, which I think was likely to be a mistake on her part. I think the question 
was clear  it specifically referenced a laptop, damage at home and a value under £1,500. If 
Ms B had answered yes, further information and options wouldve been presented to her in 
relation to accidental damage cover. Therefore, I think AA has followed a reasonable 
process. Ms B concluded the purchase of her policy online, without any intervention from 
AA.
AA has shared the information it sent to Ms B after the purchase was made, which included 
the policy schedule highlighting the key aspects of the policy and signposting to the full 
policy booklet for further information. AA said it is explained in the policy booklet that certain 
words have specific meanings wherever they appear in the policy. The definition of a 
valuable is confirmed as an item which is portable, audio visual, laptops, or other computer 
equipment which does not include any equipment only capable of use when connected to 
mains electricity. Therefore, a laptop would be defined as a valuable as they are designed to 
be portable and you would need section three to cover you for accidental damage to these 
items.
I have checked the policy. Section 2 excludes Valuables and Sections 3 includes 
Valuables for accidental damage anywhere in the world. The definitions section of the 
policy shows that laptops are defined as part of Valuables. So, I think its clear Section 2 
wouldnt cover laptops which is the cover Ms B had purchased. Whereas section 3 does 
cover laptops, which is cover Ms B hadnt purchased. Section 3 is worldwide cover, so 
wouldve covered the damaged laptop at home. I appreciate Ms B says its unusual to 
exclude laptops from household cover. However, insurers are entitled to structure policies as 
they see fit. Part of our role is to check insurers terms and conditions are clear. I think AAs 
terms and conditions are clear and I can see the schedule of insurance clearly reference 
these.
By providing information to Ms B post-sale with the specific details of the policy that was 
bought, I think AA has given Ms B another opportunity to make sure the cover she bought 
was appropriate for her. It is the policyholders responsibility to check these details are 
correct and the cover in place is in line with their requirements. If something isnt right, its 
normal for insurers to offer a 14-day cooling off period where a policyholder can cancel the 
policy for a small administration charge. I can see AA did offer this, which I think is 
reasonable.
In summary, I think AA has followed a reasonable process and whilst Im sure Ms B probably 
selected the wrong option of cover by mistake, I dont think its fair to hold AA responsible for 
this. So, as I dont think the policy has been mis-sold, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Automobile Association 
Insurance Services Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 Pete Averill
Ombudsman