DRN-4164185
The complaint
Mr A complains about a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement taken with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  trading as Audi Financial Services (Audi). He 
says he was expecting the car to be brand new with five miles recorded on the odometer, 
but this wasnt the case.
What happened
Around January 2022 Mr A says he saw an advert for a car online, with a dealer Ill refer to 
as N. He says the car was advertised as new, with five miles on the clock.
Mr A entered into a hire purchase agreement with Audi to acquire the car. The car cost 
£66,300. Mr A paid a deposit of £8,000 with the rest of the funds provided under a hire 
purchase agreement with Audi.
Mr A says once he got the car home, he was shocked to see the next day that it had a 
recorded mileage of around 3,900. 
Mr A complained to N. He said the car had been misrepresented to him and believed it was 
worth £3,000 to £4,000 less than hed paid for it.
N issued a response to Mr As complaint. In summary, it said there had been an 
administrative error. It said the price of the car had been reduced by £700 before Mr A 
acquired it because of this. It explained the finance agreement Mr A took showed the 
mileage of the car as 1,500. It said it would offer Mr A £300 to apologise for the mistake with 
the mileage. And it explained it had made Audi aware of the situation, so the mileage 
allowance under the agreement could be calculated correctly.
Mr A was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. We then made Audi 
aware of the complaint. Audi emailed Mr A in September 2022 and said N had offered a 
preferential buy back on the car to Mr A but he declined. It also said Mr A couldve declined 
to take the car when he collected it. Audi then issued a final response the next day. This 
contained a copy of Ns response above. And Audi said it would also offer £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr A was unhappy with this, so our service began to investigate. Our investigator issued an 
opinion and didnt uphold the complaint. She said, in summary, that the advert Mr A saw said 
errors may occur in the details contained. She said Mr A shouldve known from the 
paperwork at the time he acquired the car that it wasnt new and had a mileage of 3,688. 
And she said she didnt think Mr A had financially lost out because of what happened.
Mr A disagreed. He said Audi normally allows people to return a car within 28 days if they 
arent happy, but this option wasnt given to him. He said he still thought the car was 
misrepresented. And he provided an advert for a car that he said showed a massive price 
difference to what he paid. 
Our investigator said this didnt change her opinion. So, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
regulated consumer credit agreements such as this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, 
Im satisfied I can consider Mr As complaint about Audi.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Audi here  has a responsibility to 
make sure the goods match a description. 
As well as the goods being as described, Ill also consider if the car was misrepresented to 
Mr A as he says. To be misrepresented, this means Mr A wouldve been given a false 
statement of fact about the car, that induced him into entering into the agreement when he 
otherwise would not have. 
Mr A says he was told the car was brand new, and had covered five miles. I think these are 
slightly different issues, so Ill consider these in turn.
New vs used
Mr A says he expected the car to be brand new. So, Ive thought about this along with the 
evidence from the time.
Ive seen a copy of the advert Mr A says he saw for the car. This does say the mileage of the 
car is 5 miles  which Ill come onto below. It says the car was registered in 2021, as 
opposed to being unregistered. Ive also considered, although I appreciate this may not have 
been too obvious, that the cars front registration plate has been replaced with one 
advertising the manufacturers used car scheme. Ive also noted that the advert says:
Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the information above, however, 
errors may occur. Do not rely entirely on this information but check about items which may 
affect your decision to purchase.
Thinking about this, I accept that being advertised with such a low mileage would give Mr A 
the impression this car was new. But, given the disclaimer and the other points above, on its 
own this isnt enough to make me think the car was described as new. So Ive considered 
what else Mr A wouldve seen at the time.
Ive considered here what Mr A saw before he entered into the agreement. Ive seen two 
order forms, both of which describe the car as used. And on the agreement Mr A signed 
the car is also recorded as used.
Theres very little evidence of conversations that took place at the time. But, I think its 
unlikely the car was described to Mr A as brand new by N. 
Thinking about all of this, I think its most likely the car was not described as new. It follows 
that this means I dont think on this point that the car was misrepresented to Mr A, nor that 
the car didnt meet a description given.Mileage
Mr A says he thought the mileage of the car was five. And, as above, I can see that in the 
advert he saw this is what is recorded. But, again, I need to consider the disclaimer on the 
advert as Ive set out. So, I need to think about what else Mr A wouldve seen.
I should say here that N, and Audi, both accept that there were discrepancies in the mileage 
recorded. The key thing I need to consider is when Mr A wouldve been aware of the actual 
mileage of the car. He says this was the day after he acquired it. Audi told our service that N 
explained the true mileage of the car to Mr A before he acquired it.
Ive considered the agreement Mr A signed. This records the mileage as 1,500  which all 
parties accept was incorrect.
But, Ive also seen a document Mr A signed before he entered into the agreement. This was 
a vehicle order form that records the mileage as 3,688. 
It appears Mr A collected the car two days after he signed the finance agreement. Ive also 
seen a used qualifying invoice signed by Mr A on this day that recorded the mileage as 
3,688. And Ive seen a used vehicle supplementary invoice, again signed by Mr A, that also 
records the mileage as 3,688.
So, I accept the car was advertised as having covered five miles  albeit with a disclaimer to 
not rely on the information. And Im satisfied the mileage was recorded as 1,500 on the 
credit agreement  which is incorrect. But, taking everything into account, I think on balance 
its most likely Mr A was made aware of the correct mileage of the car before he acquired it, 
and on the day he collected it. It follows that Im not persuaded that the mileage was 
misrepresented to Mr A or that the car was not as described.
I do appreciate this is somewhat finely balanced. So, it might be worth explaining that even if 
I concluded Mr A was told the wrong mileage, I havent seen enough to make me think hes 
lost out here. Mr A says the car wouldve cost significantly less due to the higher mileage. 
But I havent seen enough to persuade me that this was the case.
I say this as Im satisfied the car was described as used. I havent seen enough evidence to 
show, given the car wasnt new, that the mileages involved here wouldve significantly 
affected the value.
Ive considered the screenshot of another car advert Mr A provided. But, this isnt dated. And 
I cant see what the full specification of the other car is. So, this doesnt change my opinion.
All that being said, I do still think Audi did something wrong here. It isnt in dispute that errors 
were made with how the car was advertised to Mr A and what was recorded on the credit 
agreement. I think this situation wouldve caused Mr A some distress and inconvenience. 
Audi has offered to pay Mr A £300 to reflect this. I think this is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances.
Audi has also confirmed it has updated Mr As credit agreement to reflect the correct mileage 
at the point of supply to make sure he is fairly charged for the mileage used.
Finally, Mr A says he shouldve been given the option to hand the car back within 28 days. 
Hes sent a screenshot of what appears to be Ns website that he says shows this. But, I 
havent been provided with any other evidence here. And I cant see this forms part of the 
agreement with Audi  so Im not going to make any findings about this. That being said, it might be worth pointing out to Mr A that the screenshot explains a car can be exchanged, 
not returned, and only if a demonstrable fault occurred.
My final decision
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  trading as Audi Financial Services has made 
an offer to pay Mr A £300 to reflect what happened.
My final decision is that this offer is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of this 
complaint.
So, I instruct Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  trading as Audi Financial 
Services, if it hasnt already done so, to pay Mr A £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman