DRN-1374190
The complaint
Mr H complains about a text message sent by Nationwide Building Society regarding his 
bank account.
He also complains about the service he received during a phone call with the bank.
What happened
Mr H received a text message at 8.19am on 23 July 2019 advising him that he had 
insufficient funds to cover two outgoing payments. Mr H says this alarmed him as he had a 
regular standing order that went into the account to cover these.
Mr H went on to say that when he called Nationwide to query the text message, the member 
of staff was unable to tell him why the text was sent  and it was only after speaking to 
someone else that he established why the text was sent and that he had enough money to 
cover the payment. 
Mr H complained to Nationwide. In his complaint he said 
The text message was incorrect and misleading. The information was also out of 
date. 
He received poor customer service on the phone call he made to customer services. 
 
Nationwide looked into the complaint and it explained that the text generated shortly after 
midnight on the 23 July and at this point there wasn't enough money to make the two 
scheduled payments due to come out.  The standing order was then received into the 
account and this enabled the two payments to be made. Nationwide went on to say that the 
text wasn't sent at the point the account had insufficient funds, as it deems this as 
unsociable hours. This resulted in the text being sent some hours later with out of date 
information.  
As Mr H remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. He agreed the 
wording of the text sent by Nationwide could have been better, but he was satisfied that 
Nationwide had agreed to review this as part of their complaints process. He went on to say 
that an apology and an explanation of what went wrong were enough in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Mr H didn't agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me to issue 
as final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Nationwide have explained that the two scheduled payments Mr H had on his account could 
not be made as the incoming payment had not been received. As standing orders can enter 
and leave the account at random times, its understandable that if the money 
wasn't available, Nationwide would notify Mr H to stop him getting potentially charged. I'm 
satisfied that the reasoning it has given for the generation of the text message is correct. 
On the phone call Mr H had with the Nationwide advisor on 23 July 2019, the advisor 
explains that there wasn't enough funds in the account to cover both payments at the point 
they were requested. She went on to say that money coming in and out of the account won't 
always be at a set time, but reassured Mr H that the payment will be made when its 
attempted later in the day, as there were now sufficient funds available to cover it. Although 
Mr H may have had issues with the first advisor he spoke to, this was rectified by the second 
advisor.  
I can understand Mr H's frustration at having to call Nationwide following the text message, 
but im also satisfied Nationwide explained the issue and reassured Mr H that one payment 
had gone and the second would be made later in the day  as there were now 
sufficient funds. There was also no further action Mr H needed to take to make this happen. 
Mr H has said that he should be compensated for the error the bank has made. Although a 
text message was sent with partly out of date information, I'm satisfied with Nationwide's 
reasons for sending the text message and also for not sending this at the point it spotted the 
issue, when it waited until a more sensible time to send the message. At the point the 
message was sent, there was also one payment still outstanding, and I don't find this was 
a fault of Nationwide's. This text message was also sent to safe guard Mr H against getting 
potential charges. 
Taking everything into account in the circumstances of this complaint, I'm satisfied the 
apology Nationwide have offered in  light of the inconvenience caused is fair. I haven't seen 
any information that shows Mr H suffered any further detriment other than having to make a 
call into the business. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2020.
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman