DRN-3775249
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc has decided not to refund him, after he says 
money was fraudulently debited from his HSBC account via is e-money account. 
What happened
Ill summarise the facts, as these have already been clearly set out in previous 
correspondence with both parties.
Mr A says several fraudulent transactions were made on his e-money account following a 
phishing email he responded to. Mr As e-money account was linked to his HSBC current 
account debit card and as a result his HSBC account was debited for the disputed 
transactions. 
Mr A reported the fraud to HSBC. Since then HSBC has refunded several of the payments 
that were made after Mr A reported the scam but before it cancelled Mr As card. Mr A says 
the e-money provider concluded the transfers were fraudulent and so HSBC should refund 
all the transactions.
HSBC didnt uphold As complaint in full. In summary it said:
- A refund of £5,840 was applied to Mr As account and this was because the fraud 
team failed to cancel Mr As card, after he reported the fraud and his previous card 
remained active.
- But it wouldnt be refunding the transactions that took place before the incident was 
reported because:
- the e-money account was Mr  As genuine account; 
- Mr A had sent money to some of the payees previously, which didnt seem 
like something a third party fraudster would do;
- Mr A accessed his online banking several times during the period of the 
disputed transactions, including making an undisputed payment on one of the 
days the disputed activity was taking place -  so it was unusual that he didnt 
notice the transactions before he called to stop his card a few days later;
- it didnt think Mr A had been the victim of fraud or that he hadnt made the 
transactions himself, so it declined to refund him.
Mr A was unhappy with HSBCs final response and brought the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into things. He concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
In summary he said:
- Although Mr A said he shared some details via a phishing email he didnt think the 
transactions were made by a third party or opportunistic fraudster.
- The value and pattern of the transactions is not what hed expect to see from a 
fraudster. It was more likely that they would make maximum use of access to any 
account and funds as quickly as possible. Here the transactions were for varying 
amounts some as low as £10 and £20 but ranging up to £500 and £1,000, over the 
course of several days, and left a balance in Mr As HSBC account.
- Although he later disputed this  at the time of raising the dispute with HSBC -  Mr A 
said he made a genuine transaction in between the disputed transactions. The 
investigator thought it seemed unusual that Mr A wouldnt have noticed his depleted 
balance at the time of making this transaction. 
- The IP address log showed Mr A had logged into his HSBC online banking during the 
period of the disputed transactions. So, he thought Mr A would have noticed either; 
the transactions from the account, or the depleted balance. Mr A hadnt said (and 
there wasnt any evidence to suggest) that his HSBC account or details had been 
compromised in anyway. So, he was satisfied that this log in activity was Mr A.
- Credits were made to Mr As account prior to the disputed transactions  from the 
statements these credits appear to be from an account in Mr As name (and he isnt 
disputing making these credits into the account). So, it seemed more likely that he 
made these payments into the account to then fund transfers via the e-money 
provider account.
- The disputed payments were made to existing payees. But Mr A believed the payee 
details were mimicked as he said the funds werent received by these payees. But 
our investigator didnt think this was possible or likely. And he reviewed the 
statements from the recipient e-money account and believed the money was 
received.
- He didnt think the transactions appeared unusual or suspicious or that HSBC ought 
to have intervened or have prevented them.
Mr A responded to say he disagreed with the investigators findings. In summary he said:
- Hes provided evidence of the scam emails he received and the e-money provider 
concluding the transfers were fraudulent.
- The transactions to the e-money provider are all under the £1,500 at which point ID is 
required to authorise a transfer. And thats why the fraudster made several payments 
across three days under this value.
- The IP address and log-in information doesnt prove that he made the transactions 
and rather that he might have been making transfers between his accounts. He 
noticed the fraudulent activity when he saw numerous declined transfers on his e-
money app. And he has evidence that additional attempted transfers were not 
possible on the e-money account because of insufficient funds. 
- Hes provided evidence of the genuine payees account details which he says shows 
the money wasnt received and this evidences that the fraudster mimicked his 
previous genuine transfers. 
- He didnt say that he made a genuine transaction in amongst the disputed ones.
As Mr A didnt agree with the investigators findings, he asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for the same 
reasons. 
The regulations most relevant to this case are the Payments Service Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). Its the PSRs that set out when a customer and when a bank is responsible for 
transactions on an account. A customer will normally be responsible for any transactions 
they authorise. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process transactions 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the PSRs and 
terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. 
Based on all the evidence Ive seen Im persuaded Mr A carried out or consented to (and 
therefore authorised) these transactions and HSBC is entitled to hold him liable for them. Ill 
explain why.
I can see HSBC decided to refund the transactions after the date at which Mr A reported the 
fraud. At which point HSBC ought to have cancelled Mr As cards, as this wasnt done it has 
decided to refund all the disputed transactions after this date. I dont think this impacts its 
decision to hold Mr A liable for the disputed transactions before the card was cancelled. And 
I agree with its decision not to do so. 
The e-money provider has said it reported the matter to Mr As bank as he had said that he 
had divulged information via a phishing email and was the victim of fraud. I havent seen any 
evidence that the e-money provider conducted its own investigation to determine if Mr A was 
the victim of fraud, rather that it relayed the information that Mr A had said this. And even if it 
had that doesnt automatically mean that HSBC is responsible for Mr As losses. 
I agree with the findings made by the investigator. In summary, the main reasons Im not 
upholding Mr As complaint are:
- The statements from one of the recipients (which Mr A has provided) shows 
transactions made to that individual from Mr As e-money account were received. Its 
possible Mr A has misread the statements. I say this because Mr A has said the 
statements evidence that the recipient didnt receive the money and the fraudster had 
mimicked the account. But I dont agree. The statement, in fact, clearly show that the 
money was received by the intended recipient on each occasion. As Im satisfied the 
recipient (someone known to Mr A and someone he genuinely sent to funds to) 
received the funds that Mr A disputes, Im not persuaded the transactions were made 
by someone other than Mr A. And I dont think its likely that a fraudster would send 
funds to one of Mr As existing genuine payees. 
- HSBCs records also show that Mr A logged into his online banking six times across 
the two days that the disputed transactions occurred. So, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr A would have noticed the transactions or seen his depleted account 
balance. The fact that he didnt raise them at the time suggests he was making the 
transactions. 
- Having listened to the calls between HSBC and Mr A, I agree with the investigator, 
that Mr A said he had made genuine transactions using his e-money account during 
the period of the disputed transactions. Whilst Mr A may now not recall this, Im 
satisfied he did relay this on the phone to HSBC. He said he sent two lots of a £1,000 
and a £629 payment, and he had the name of the person these payments were sent 
to  although he didnt go on to share this information during the call. But Im 
persuaded this supports the finding that Mr A was making payments using his e-money account during this time and was, or ought to have been, aware of his 
account activity. And because he didnt raise the disputed transactions at the time, I 
think its more likely than not that its because he carried them out. 
- Its possible Mr A later regretted making those payments, wanted to reverse them or 
something else, along these lines, happened. But that doesnt mean that he didnt 
initially authorise the payments or that that HSBC should refund them. Ultimately, Im 
satisfied that Mr A made or authorised these transactions and as such HSBC is 
entitled to hold him liable for them. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman