DRN-3600025
The complaint
Mr P complains that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance unfairly applied 
adverse information to his credit file in regard to his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr P entered into a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo in October 2017 to acquire a 
car. In March 2020 he contacted MotoNovo to ask for support as his financial situation had 
been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. A reduced payment plan was agreed, and Mr P 
paid £200 per month towards the agreement for May 2020, June 2020, July 2020 and 
August 2020. Mr P contacted MotoNovo about continuing reduced payments and was asked 
to complete an income and expenditure form. Mr P says that he didnt receive the income 
and expenditure form. Mr P sold the car and settled his agreement early in January 2021. He 
later checked his credit file and found four missed payments had been recorded. He didnt 
think this was fair and raised a complaint.
MotoNovo issued its final response in May 2021. It said the information had been reported 
correctly to the credit reference agencies.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought that MotoNovo had acted 
reasonably and in line with the guidance by offering Mr P a reduced payment plan for May to 
August 2020. He then didnt think it unreasonable that it asked Mr P to complete and income 
and expenditure form to assess what further assistance could be provided. This wasnt 
completed before the September 2020 payment fell due and this payment was missed. He 
said MotoNovo had explained it was just the September payment that was missed but as 
this wasnt paid until the agreement was settled in January 2021 this had been recorded for 
four months on Mr Ps credit file.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view. He explained that he settled the agreement 
early to prevent adverse information being recorded on his credit file as this was a particular 
concern to him due to his employment. He reiterated that he hadnt received an income and 
expenditure form. He said he hadnt cancelled his direct debit and there were funds in his 
account and so the payments should have been requested.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint I concluded in summary:
Mr P entered a hire purchase agreement in October 2017 and maintained his 
payments until he experienced financial issues due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The guidance published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in April 2020 set 
out expectations in regard to the support for customers affected by the Covid-19 
pandemic. This said that payment deferrals (partial or full) could be requested for a 
period of three months and these should be provided unless the business believed it 
wasnt in the customers best interest. The guidance released in July extended the 
payment deferral period to six months.
Mr P contacted MotoNovo and a reduced payment plan was agreed for two months 
(May and June 2020) which was then extended for a further two months (July and 
August 2020). MotoNovo confirmed that the payment plan wasnt recorded on Mr Ps 
credit file. Based on Mr Ps request for help, and his circumstances, I thought the 
action taken by MotoNovo at that time was reasonable and in line with the guidance.
In August 2020, Mr P contacted MotoNovo to ask that his reduced payment plan be 
extended by a further two months. At this time Mr P had benefitted from a partial 
payment deferral for four months and so a further two months would have brought 
him to the six months set out in the July 2020 guidance. Had this happened then 
Mr P wouldnt have had a missed payment recorded in September 2020.
Mr Ps partial payment deferral wasnt extended in August and he was instead asked 
to complete an income and expenditure form. The guidance at the time didnt require 
this type of assessment to take place and I didnt think it would have been 
unreasonable for the additional two-month extension to have been applied. However, 
the guidance didnt prevent further information being requested so long as this didnt 
delay the provision of timely support. In this case the information was requested 
before the next payment fell due and the intention was to identify the support best 
suited for Mr P. Therefore, I didnt find I could say MotoNovo was wrong to ask for 
this information.
Unfortunately, Mr P didnt receive the income and expenditure form and he didnt 
contact MotoNovo about this before September 2020. Therefore, when the 
September payment fell due there was no partial payment deferral in place. As 
contact hadnt been received and Mr P had asked for the deferral which was within 
the timeframe set out in the guidance, I thought that MotoNovo could have done 
more at this point to make contact to see what assistance could be provided.
Mr P has said that he had a direct debit instruction in place, and he had funds in his 
account. I understood the point made about not taking these funds due to the request 
for support Mr P had made but I have nothing to suggest further conversations were 
held before the next months direct debit payment was taken and also nothing to 
show that Mr P has said the direct debit should be stopped.
On balance, I thought the fair outcome for this complaint was that any adverse information 
recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of the missed September 2020 payment to be 
removed because:
the support being requested by Mr P fell within the guidance and had his partial 
payment deferral been provided for a further two months the payment wouldnt have 
been missed in September; and
Mr P still had a direct debit in place and so as the deferral hadnt been set up it would 
be reasonable for him to think his payment would be taken, as I understood 
happened the following month.
Neither party provided any further information in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party provided any further evidence in response to my provisional decision, my 
conclusions havent changed. I think that the fair outcome for this complaint is for any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of the missed September 2020 
payment to be removed for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
MotoNovo should remove any adverse information recorded as a result of the missed 
September 2020 payment from Mr Ps credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require FirstRand Bank Limited trading 
as MotoNovo Finance to take the actions set out above in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman