DRN-1513009
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with service they received from Nationwide Building Society in 
respect of their mortgage. They say they were mis-sold a ten-year fixed rate product in 2017 
and are unhappy with the service they received in 2019 when they wanted to discuss their 
options for moving house.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
again here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive 
read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
2017
Weve got two differing accounts of what happened in 2017. Mr and Mrs T say the mortgage 
adviser didnt mention the early repayment charge (ERC) that theyd incur if they came out of 
the ten-year fixed rate product early, whereas the mortgage adviser says she did.
Both parties have provided a copy of their notes from the time, with Nationwide providing a 
copy of the Switcher Advice Capture Form and Mr and Mrs T providing a copy of Mrs Ts 
handwritten notes.
Before I go any further I think I should pick up on some things Mr and Mrs T have said about 
the form/notes provided to this service by Nationwide:
This just goes to illustrate that the documentation provided by Nationwide is a 
complete fabrication, written retrospectively - tailored to their version of the narrative.
We can only tell the truth, not manufacture a tissue of lies, to counter the 
objections.
completely fabricated Nationwide notes
We find it incredible that there is such a readiness to believe that they would not 
retrospectively fabricate notes or a fictitious version of events, to attempt to evade a 
serious complaint from a customer.
In the above notes we have gone some way to highlighting that their notes are a 
work of fiction...
These are very serious allegations on the part of Mr and Mrs T and ones that are tantamount 
to accusing Nationwide of fraud. Having considered everything I can see absolutely nothing 
to support the allegations. The form Nationwide has provided isnt something it needed to 
complete, so had it not provided anything to us it wouldnt have prejudiced its case.
Mr and Mrs T have also alleged the mortgage adviser sold this product to them for financial 
gain. I think, however, that Mr and Mrs T have misunderstood the Nationwide role profiles 
and renumeration details theyve provided to support their claim. Whilst an adviser may be 
paid an extra amount based on performance, that performace pay is in no way tied to 
whether they recommend a longer term fixed rate rather than a shorter term fixed rate. So 
there was absolutely no financial gain to the mortgage adviser in recommending this 
ten-year fixed rate product rather than a two-year fixed rate product.
 
Mr and Mrs T have said they wouldnt have taken out this product if theyd been aware of the 
ERC, saying:
We were soon encouraged to look at extending this to a 5 year fixed rate. We were 
hesitant at first because this is not what we had intended to look at, but were assured 
that although this would feature a slightly higher rate, we would have the security to 
ensure that there would be no sudden rise in our payments, which was ultimately 
what we were trying to achieve.
We were then asked, if you want to secure your payments, why not look at the 10 
year fixed?. This was something that we were not at all comfortable with, as it was 
so much more of a commitment than we had initially come in for.
As previously mentioned, we are both naturally cautious, especially when it comes 
to money, as we are not in a position whereby we can afford to make the incorrect 
financial choices, especialiy if the commitment was over such a length of time
 I am staggered that at no point was it mentioned to us that this product would 
feature an Early Repayment Charge, and indeed the punitive nature of this feature, 
should it become applicable.
But the first three statements Ive listed above dont tie-in with Mr and Mrs T being unaware 
there was an ERC; Ill explain why. If there was no ERC then there was no long-term 
commitment, so no reason for Mr and Mrs T to be hesitent or uncomfortable with it. As if 
rates dropped, or Mr and Mrs T wanted to come out of the mortgage for any other reason, 
within that ten-year period then they would have thought they could simply do so if they were 
unaware of the ERC. So their explanations of feeling hesitent and uncomfortable about a 
longer-term fixed rate dont tally with their statement that they were unaware there was an 
ERC.
Mrs Ts handwritten notes also dont support them being unaware of the ERC as at the top of 
the page shes written 10% per year of £187,00 [sic] overpayment. If there was no ERC 
then there would be no overpayment limit each year as that 10% per year limit relates to 
making overpayments without incurring the ERC.
The possibility of moving house in the future neednt have been a barrier to taking this 
product as the mortgage was portable (subject to a future application being approved) as 
Mr and Mrs T are aware as thats something they were looking into in 2019.The mortgage offer is the contract that Mr and Mrs T were entering into, and that said:
10. What happens if you do not want this product any more? 
Early repayment charges
Early repayment charges are payable on this loan for the first 120 months. The table
below is for illustrative purposes, and assumes a start date of 1st January 2018. 
Please refer to the conditions below for the actual calculation method.
There was then a table setting out the ERCs on a reducing basic from 7% to 1% over the 
ten years the rate would run for, and cash examples of the ERC which ran from £12,345 for 
the first four years reducing to £1,764 in the final year.
Then followed the explanations:
The early repayment charges shown are the maximum charges you could pay if you 
repay the loan, or transfer to another product, or exceed your overpayment allowance as 
detailed in section 11. The maximum charge you could pay is £12,345.00 based on the 
loan amount above, plus a Redemption Charge which is currently £65. If the interest rate 
for your mortgage, or interest rates in general, change then the maximum charge may 
change.
An early repayment charge is payable if you repay the mortgage or transfer to another 
product within the Benefit Period.
If you  move house, and we are able to offer you a new loan, you can keep this mortgage 
product and you will not have to pay an early repayment charge if you transfer the 
balance of this product and the terms of this product to the new loan for the remainder of 
the Benefit Period.
This product may not be available for any additional borrowing above the balance 
transferred when completing your new mortgage. This does not guarantee acceptance of 
any future loan application.
Ive considered the submissions made by both sides and its clear they are in direct conflict 
with each other. When considering any complaint like this, as Mr and Mrs T are the ones 
bringing the complaint against Nationwide, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Ts version 
needs to be more likely than Nationwides version; not just as likely. Having considered 
everything I cant say Mr and Mrs Ts version is anything more than just as likely, which isnt 
enough for me to uphold their complaint the mortgage product was mis-sold to them in 2017.
2019
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with how they were treated in 2019. I wont detail all the concerns 
individually, suffice to say they can all by summarised as customer service issues.
I understand Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that theyve not received all the information they 
requested from Nationwide. Our service doesnt deal with complaints about subject access 
requests; the correct body for such a complaint is the Information Commissioners Office 
(www.ico.org.uk/for-the-public). So if Mr and Mrs T have any concerns about what they have 
and havent been sent then thats the body theyd need to raise it with.
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that they appointment they thought had been booked with a 
mortgage adviser was actually with another member of staff instead. This came to light in the 
days before the appointment when the staff member contacted Mr and Mrs T. Mr and Mrs T have said the mortgage adviser didnt email the staff member answers to the questions they 
wanted to ask as shed promised she would. But thats not correct as we have on file a copy 
of the email the mortgage adviser sent to the other staff member.
I understand Mr and Mrs T had various questions about their existing mortgage and what 
would happen if they wanted to move, but a branch appointment wasnt the best place for 
those questions. As they found, Saturday appointments (which is what Mr and Mrs T 
wanted) are very popular, so its understandable why Nationwide might run a triage system 
whereby customers are booked in with other members of staff when theyre just looking for 
information, keeping the mortgage advisers free for when a customer is ready to proceed 
and needs regulated advice. That clearly didnt work for Mr and Mrs T, but for most 
customers it is an appropriate way for enquires to be dealt with. Here, Mr and Mrs T would 
have been better placed phoning the mortgage servicing team as thats their role, and if Mr T 
wanted Mrs T present as hes said, then they could have phoned the servicing team at a 
time they were both around and placed the call on loud speaker.
After the meeting Mr and Mrs T sent an email to the mortgage adviser with some points they 
wanted answered. Its unfortunate that the mortgage adviser didnt reply to Mr and Mrs T in 
the week they allowed before they raised a complaint and said they didnt want a reply from 
the adviser. Whilst Mr and Mrs T have said it was two weeks that they didnt get a reply 
(taking that time up until their complaint was acknowledged), it was only a week as 
Nationwide received their complaint on 5 March, one week to the day after the mortgage 
adviser would have received Mr and Mrs Ts email.
Mr and Mrs T have said Nationwides final response letter still didnt answer all their 
questions, but I can see the question they say remains outstanding isnt one that was asked 
(in the way it was later phrased) of either the mortgage adviser or of Nationwide when the 
complaint was raised. The final response letter answered the questions that were asked, 
albeit didnt deal with what Mr and Mrs T specifically wanted to know about whether their 
existing product is compatible with the Help-To-Buy scheme.
I can see why Mr and Mrs T were frustrated with the service they received in 2019 in that 
they didnt get the appointment they wanted, their questions werent answered in the way 
they wanted and the mortgage adviser didnt reply to their email within the week in question 
(amongst others). Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a 
mistake, mistakes do happen. Were not the regulator and weve no power to fine or punish 
businesses. Having considered everything Im satisfied whilst Mr and Mrs T were frustrated 
with what happened, Nationwide didnt cause them any notable trouble and upset (over 
and above what one would normally expect when making enquiries such as this) and 
therefore I dont award any compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman