DRN-2599033
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc reduced the promotional interest rate period on 
her credit card.
What happened
Mrs M says she applied for a Sainsburys credit card account in August 2020 which was 
advertised as having a 0% promotional offer for 20 months. She says the account 
application was approved but she found out some days later that Sainsburys promotional 
offer was only for 12 months. Mrs M says that information wasnt in the terms and conditions 
she was sent and says she would like the time period extended to 20 months and 
compensation for whats taken place.
Sainsburys says Mrs M applied for the account on 31 August 2020 and agreed to the terms 
and conditions which made clear the promotional 0% offer was for 12 months. It says it 
makes clear before an application is made that any promotional offer, credit limit or interest 
rate will vary and so hasnt made a mistake.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the terms and conditions Mrs M agreed to made clear the offer was for 
12 months and that information was repeated in the account statements. He also thought 
Mrs M was aware of that before she used the account card. The investigator thought 
Sainsburys made clear that it would consider the exact interest rate, credit limit or any offer 
length after application.
Mrs M doesnt accept that view and questions why Sainsburys would offer her a credit limit 
of £9,000 but reduce the promotional period. She says the information about it wasnt sent to 
her and says she is prepared to meet Sainsburys half way in the dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Sainsburys hasnt made a mistake or 
acted unfairly. I appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I can see Mrs M agreed to on 31 
August 2020. I can see they make clear the promotional interest rate period was to be for 12 
months and that information is prominently displayed within the agreement. I think Mrs M 
would have had to agree to those terms and conditions before the account was opened. I 
accept Mrs M may not have realised the promotional period was not what she was expecting 
but that is not something I can fairly hold Sainsburys responsible for.
Im satisfied that the information was clear, and it was up to Mrs M to read the terms and 
conditions. It follows that I dont think Sainsburys misled Mrs M and I also think it makes 
clear that interest rates, credit limit and promotional offer length may vary after application.
I appreciate Mrs M questions why she was offered a credit limit of £9,000 but an offer period 
of 12 months. I am sorry to disappoint Mrs M but those are not matters I can fairly comment 
on or order Sainsburys to answer. Im satisfied such matters are for a business to decide 
upon when exercising its commercial judgement and are likely to be confidential in any 
event.
I have looked at the account statements Mrs M was sent and can see that they contain 
detaisl of the 12-month promotional offer. And I think Mrs M was aware of that information 
before she used her account for any significant purchases.
Overall, I find Sainsburys hasnt made a mistake and Mrs M agreed to its terms and 
conditions which were visible to her before she agreed to them. For those reasons I cant 
fairly order Sainsburys to increase the length of the promotional offer or pay compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman