DRN-3764687
The complaint
Mr W complains about charges applied by Carole Nash Insurance Consultants Ltd (Carole 
Nash) after he cancelled his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W took out car insurance using Carole Nash as the broker and paid £278.01 for a policy. 
Mr W then bought a new car and, having obtained a revised quote, he decided to cancel this 
policy and insure his car with another insurer. Carole Nash then made deductions and 
refunded the remainder to Mr W. Mr W felt some of the charges were unfair and he wasnt 
told about them when he took his policy out. Mr W complained and Carole Nash responded 
and explained, when the policy started the insurer charged them £290.77 for the insurance. 
They said, they applied their broker fee of £40 and legal cover was added at £39.95  which 
meant the annual price was £370.72. Carole Nash said, to offer a competitive quote, a 
discount of £92.71 was applied  but this was on the basis the policy would be in place for 
the full 12 months. 
Carole Nash explained, on cancellation, the insurer provided them with a pro-rata refund of 
£183.90 for the unused period. And, after making further deductions for other charges, this 
resulted in a cancellation refund of £66.34. Mr W says he reluctantly accepts the insurers 
charge and cancellation fee, but he doesnt accept the other charges. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W. He thought Carole Nash hadnt acted unfairly in 
applying the charges. Mr W disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr W will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.  For ease of reference, 
Ive set out below, the charges which were applied:
Charge Cost
Premium for 99 days cover £78.87
Insurer cancellation fee £28
Legal expenses cover £39.95
Broker fee £40
Broker cancellation fee £50
Mr W paid a premium of £278.01 and the total charges applied were £236.82. A pro-rata 
return discount of £25.15 was then applied which meant the total charges were £211.67. So, 
deducting this from the premium paid leads to a refund of £66.34. I understand Mr W 
disputes a number of the charges, so Ive looked to see whether the charges are fair and 
reasonable. 
My starting point is Carole Nashs Terms of Business which sets out the terms and 
conditions. This says, under the heading, Cancellation of Insurance, If your policy is 
cancelled after the 14 day cooling period we will charge you £50.00. It goes further to say, 
after the 14 day period, Carole Nash wont provide a refund against any additional products 
a customer may have purchased. It then refers to a separate section which lists the 
additional products, and legal expenses is on the list. A separate section refers to Carole 
Nashs charges and notes a fee of £40 for arranging the policy. The policy booklet says, if 
the policy is cancelled after the cooling-off period, the insurer will charge for the period on 
cover as well as a cancellation charge of £25 plus Insurance Premium Tax. The Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) also sets this out.  
Taking this all into account, the charges applied by Carole Nash are set out in the Terms of 
Business, policy booklet and IPID, so I dont think theyve acted unreasonably in applying 
these. 
I understand Mr W believes the charge for legal expenses is unfair as he never requested 
this as he already has legal cover. He says he was given this as an extra for no charge and 
doesnt feel Carole Nash have been clear and transparent. I do acknowledge Mr Ws points 
but I think this charge has been made clear. I can see Carole Nash sent Mr W a welcome 
letter which enclosed the policy documents. The letter provides a breakdown of how the 
premium has been calculated and includes reference to a fee of £39.95 for additional cover. 
It refers to the full details being overleaf, and this section then describes the additional cover 
being for legal expenses. So, I think the breakdown did make it clear that the premium Mr W 
was paying included £39.95 for legal expenses. And, given the Terms of Business say 
Carole Nash wont refund any additional cover if the policy is cancelled after 14 days, I cant 
say theyve acted unreasonably in refusing to refund this. I wish to reassure Mr W that Ive 
carefully considered his points, but the information Ive seen doesnt suggest the legal 
expenses cover was being provided at no additional cost. 
I can see Mr W also raises a concern about the discount applied and this not being brought 
to his attention when he took out the policy. So, he feels its unfair that a proportion of this 
should be deducted from his refund. The welcome letter sent to Mr W sets out the discount 
applied and the Terms of Business say, if the policy is cancelled before the end of the 12 
month term, then Carole Nash will pro-rata any discount that was applied. In any event, I 
cant see Carole Nash have deducted this from the refund paid to Mr W so I cant say 
theyve acted unfairly.  
I note Mr W says the key facts document should be there to provide adequate information 
for a customer to make an informed decision and they shouldnt be expected to read all 
information hidden in the terms and conditions. Mr W appears to be referring to the IPID 
here which is a document providing a summary of the key information relating to the policy. I 
think its important to make the point that the IPID includes key information about the 
insurance policy and not about a brokers responsibilities and charges. In this case, thats set 
out in the Terms of Business and, given that this contains information under key headings, I 
dont think the relevant information about the charges has been hidden. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman