DRN-1516634
The complaint
Mrs A complains that a car she obtained through a conditional sale agreement with 
Hyundai Capital UK Limited, trading as Kia Finance, was not of satisfactory quality. She 
rejected the car towards the end of the agreement and wants compensation.
What happened
Our investigators have set out what happened in detail to both parties, so I will summarise 
very briefly here.
Mrs A obtained a new car through a three year conditional sale agreement with Kia Finance 
in August 2016. In September 2018, Mrs A reported problems with the car and the supplying 
garage carried out repairs under warranty. The following month she reported continuing 
problems and the garage replaced the clutch and flywheel and repaired an oil leak. But in 
April 2019 she returned the car again. On this occasion the garage decided the car needed a 
new engine, but the car remained undrivable after a new engine was fitted. The car 
remained with the garage until the end of the agreement (September 2019) when it was 
collected by the finance company.
Mrs A complained to Kia Finance in July 2019 about the poor quality of the car and that she 
no longer felt it was safe to drive.
Kia Finance said that, because there had been no fault reported within the first six months of 
the agreement, there wasnt evidence to show the faults were present or developing when 
the car was supplied.
Following an investigation by our service, a second investigator reviewed all of the evidence 
and recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that Kia Finance 
should have accepted Mrs As rejection of the car because a reasonable person would not 
expect major components to fail taking into account the age and mileage of the car. She 
recommended that Kia Finance refund Mrs As deposit, plus interest, and pay her £300 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Kia Finance did not agree to refund the deposit. It said it would compensate Mrs A for the 
time she was without her car by refunding five monthly payments and it would pay her £300 
for the distress caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Kia Finance is the supplier of goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have to 
be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
Was the car of satisfactory quality when it was supplied?
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age 
and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault(s) materialised. 
The car in this case was brand new. Mrs A first reported problems with the car in September 
2018  just over two years after the car had been supplied and after shed driven it around 
27,000 miles. After repairs, Mrs A reported continuing problems. In November 2018 the 
garage replaced the clutch and flywheel and around five months later, after Mrs A had been 
able to drive around a further 3,000 miles, the car was returned to the garage for the final 
time.
Mrs A enjoyed just over two years of relatively trouble-free motoring. And, even with a new 
car, its possible some items will require repair or replacement after this time. But in this 
case, the garage decided the car needed a completely new engine and turbocharger unit. 
I dont think a reasonable person would expect a cars engine to fail within three years and 
after it had been driven around 31,000 miles. Considering all the circumstances, I think there 
must have been a problem with the car when it was supplied. For this reason, I dont think 
the car was of satisfactory quality.
Should Kia Finance accept Mrs As rejection of the car?
Whilst Ive decided the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, this doesn't 
automatically mean Mrs A has a right to reject the car. The Consumer Rights Act allows the 
supplier an opportunity to carry out a repair. The garage replaced the clutch and flywheel 
and later it replaced the engine and turbocharger. But these repairs werent successful  the 
car wasnt driveable after the new engine had been fitted.
Mrs A complained to Kia Finance when these repairs had been attempted and failed. At this 
point I think it was reasonable that Kia Finance should have accepted Mrs As rejection of 
the car.
Fair compensation
When an agreement ends following rejection of the car, the agreement should be cancelled 
and all payments refunded. But we will also consider whether the finance company should 
retain any of the payments made to reflect the use the consumer has had of the car.
Here, the agreement has already ended, and Kia Finance has collected the car.
I find Kia Finance should refund the deposit Mrs A paid, plus interest.
Mrs A had full use of the car until around September 2018. After that, she had limited use of 
the car as it was being investigated and repaired by the garage. During this period Mrs A 
was supplied with a courtesy car. Its fair that Mrs A should pay for the use shes had of the 
car, and for the use of the courtesy car and I think the monthly payments fairly reflect this. The courtesy car wasnt the same specification as the car she was paying for, so I think its 
fair that the compensation award reflects this. I think a refund of two months payments is 
fair.
I think that our investigator's recommendation for compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Specialist Motor Finance Limited should:
1. Refund the cash deposit paid of £11,297, plus 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. *
2. Pay Mrs A £233.60 representing two months payments.
3. Pay Mrs A £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Hyundai Capital UK Limited, trading as Kia Finance, to 
take off tax from this interest. Hyundai Capital UK Limited, trading as Kia Finance, must give 
Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Hyundai Capital UK Limited, trading as 
Kia Finance should pay compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman