DRN-2804787
The complaint
Mr P complained to Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited that he was mis-sold a mortgage 
endowment policy in 1991. He complains it was unsuitable due to pre-existing medical 
conditions which meant a successful claim could never be made. There was also no actual 
need for life cover at the time. 
Mr P is being represented in his complaint by Mr M. 
What happened
Mr P took out mortgage borrowing in 1991. To repay that mortgage he took out an 
endowment policy with Friends Life (now Aviva). The policy was set up to achieve £5,000 at 
the end of its ten-year term. I understand the policy was invested into the with profits fund. 
Following a successful payment protection complaint, that had been upheld due to Mr P 
having pre-existing medical conditions, a complaint was subsequently made about the sale 
of this policy. Aviva upheld the complaint but didnt award compensation as it said Mr P 
hadnt suffered a financial loss as a result of the sale of the policy. 
Mr M disagreed that Aviva ought to have included the cost of separate life cover in the 
calculation. Our investigator found that even if we agreed Mr P wouldnt have taken out 
separate life cover, Mr P still hasnt suffered a financial loss.
Mr M has asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Hes unhappy as Aviva 
hasnt apologised despite it upholding the complaint. He also argues that Mr P has lost out 
and the life policy being unsuitable needs to be addressed properly.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An endowment policy is made up of two parts; an investment element which is used to build 
up a lump sum either for savings or some other event, such as repaying an interest-only 
mortgage at the end of the term, and life cover. Life cover is an integral part of endowment 
policy and makes it qualifying for tax purposes  that means, no capital gains tax is payable 
on maturity providing no chargeable events have happened during the term of the policy. It 
isnt possible to have an endowment without life cover. 
I understand that Mr P has brought the complaint about this policy on the basis of another 
complaint being upheld about payment protection insurance. But they operate in different 
ways. Term assurance (whether decreasing or level) and endowments are underwritten at 
the point of sale. This means that if there are any existing medical conditions, these are 
taken account of in the setting of the premium  the higher the risk, the higher the premium. 
But cover is still provided for those conditions. I havent come across such a policy excluding 
pre-existing conditions in the way Mr M complains of. Payment protection insurance, on the 
other hand, isnt underwritten at all, and so to reduce the risk of claims for events insurers 
might not want to cover, a lot of payment protection insurance policies exclude pre-existing 
conditions.  That Mr P has had a payment protection insurance complaint upheld does not 
mean that all the life cover policies he has been sold, in whatever form, are also unsuitable. 
Nevertheless, here, Aviva has agreed the policy wasnt appropriate. Like the investigator, as 
Aviva has already agreed the policy wasnt appropriate for Mr P, it isnt necessary for me to 
carry out an investigation into that  neither party disputes Mr P shouldnt have been sold it. 
So my consideration here is whether Aviva has done enough to put that right. 
As the investigator explained, there is a standard redress calculation that is carried out when 
endowment policies sold for mortgage repayment purposes are inappropriate. That 
calculation assumes the complainant would have had a repayment mortgage rather than an 
interest only mortgage supported by the endowment policy. Mr M hasnt made any 
arguments to suggest that isnt what Mr P would have done. Those calculations can either 
include a decreasing term assurance (which usually decreases in-line with any repayment 
mortgage) or not, depending on whether we determine that such life cover would have been 
appropriate, or taken out. It goes on to compare the position and overall costs of the interest 
only mortgage, including endowment premiums (and taking account of any values received 
in return) and comparing that to the position the complainant would have been in had the 
mortgage been taken on a repayment basis, and the costs associated with that. 
Im satisfied the calculation Aviva has conducted is in-line with industry guidance. And the 
calculation shows that Mr P hasnt lost out financially as a result of the having an interest 
only mortgage supported by an endowment policy. Although a repayment mortgage of 
£5,000 over ten years without life cover would have cost less than the interest-only mortgage 
with the endowment, that was by £339.51. But its right that the maturity value Mr P received 
in 2001 is taken into account when establishing whether he has suffered a loss. I understand 
the policy matured with a value of £6,527. This hasnt been disputed by Mr M or Mr P. 
The policy therefore achieved £1,527 more than it was intended to. This is far higher than 
the additional cost Mr P bore because of the sale of the policy  by £1,187.49. This shows 
that far from incurring a financial loss Mr P has actually gained and therefore benefitted 
financially. Although Mr M has argued Mr P has suffered a loss, he hasnt presented any 
evidence or arguments as to why he believes that. In the absence of such evidence, Im 
satisfied Mr P hasnt suffered a financial loss. It follows that Im not persuaded Aviva needs 
to do anything further in resolution of this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman