DRN-3709475
The complaint
Mr M, a director of a company, which I will refer to as Z, complains on its behalf about the 
sale of the funds in its Select Investment Funds (SIF) Account by HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) in 
December 2020. 
Mr M says he requested a transfer to a new provider and his representative provided all of 
the information required by the date specified, but HSBC failed to complete the transfer 
resulting in Z incurring an additional tax payment. The firm representing Z also says that 
HSBC didnt give it an opportunity to rectify any issues with the paperwork. 
What happened
In September 2020 HSBC wrote to Z, via Mr M, to inform it that HSBC was closing its SIF 
investment platform. HSBC said it was no longer able to offer that account or a similar 
product within HSBC. It set out the options available to Z and asked Mr M to inform HSBC of 
the option he wanted to take before the deadline of 27 November 2020.  
It said if Mr M didnt let it know the option he had chosen by 27 November 2020, it would 
close the account by selling the funds within the investment on 11 December 2020 and hold 
it as cash, unless instructed otherwise. 
On October 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr M again and reminded him of the deadline and the 
options available to him.
Mr M then instructed a firm to handle the transfer of the funds in Zs SIF account to a new 
provider, which was one of the options available to him.
In November 2020 HSBC wrote to Z, via Mr M, for a third time and reiterated what it had 
previously said about closing the platform, his available options, and the deadline for it 
receiving a valid instruction in respect of the account.
On 16 November 2020 Mr M and Zs representative contacted HSBC to ask about the 
requirements for providing authority to deal with the account.
On 26 November 2020 HSBC received a letter from Zs representative dated 18 November 
providing authority for the representative to receive information and act on Zs behalf.  
On 27 November 2020 HSBC received two documents in respect of Zs account. The first 
was dated 25 November 2020 and entitled Request for GIA Investment Information. The 
second was an instruction for an asset transfer signed by Mr M on 23 November 2020.
On 2 December 2020 HSBC wrote to Zs representative acknowledging the letter of 
authority. 
On 9 December 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr M and said it had received an instruction in respect 
of the SIF account but it was unable to action the instruction, as it was already in the process 
of selling the investment holdings and closing his account.  
On 11 December 2020 it sold the funds in Zs account and HSBC then contacted Mr M on 17 
December 2020 confirming it had sold the holdings and asking for details of where he 
wished the cash proceeds to be paid.   
Zs representative complained to HSBC on Mr M and Zs behalf. It said it had provided the 
relevant documents by the deadline and HSBC had agreed, in phone calls leading up to that 
date, that it had received the documentation it required in order to progress the transfer. 
The representative also said he had been informed in a telephone call on 27 November 
2020 that the transfer would go ahead. 
Zs representative said HSBC had then sold the investments without any further contact 
before doing so. So, it said HSBC hadnt given Mr M a chance to rectify any issues with his 
documentation. 
Zs representative said that it had incurred an additional tax liability as a result of the sale of 
the investments. 
HSBC upheld the complaint in part. It didnt agree that it had acted incorrectly in respect of 
the sale of the investments, as it said it hadnt received a valid transfer instruction by the 27 
November deadline. HSBC said the first page of the letter it received on that date stated it 
wasnt an instruction to sell or transfer. 
However, it accepted that incorrect information had been given to Zs representative in the 
phone call of 27 November, which led him to believe the transfer was going through. So, it 
offered £300 for the inconvenience caused to Z as a result of the miscommunication. 
Mr M disagreed with HSBC and his representative referred Zs complaint to our service on 
his behalf. He said that HSBC had chosen to withdraw the SIF platform and it had written to 
Mr M in September 2020, at a time when he was dealing with various matters resulting from 
the global pandemic. So, it said Mr M was not in a position to respond at that time. At the 
end of October 2020, Mr M had instructed their firm to handle the transfer, following receipt 
of a reminder letter from HSBC.
The representative said they had sent the relevant forms to HSBC and in the lead up to the 
27 November deadline, he had been in direct contact with HSBC  to make sure that the 
forms had been received within the time limits set. The representative said HSBC confirmed 
on several occasions during phone conversations, that the forms had been received within 
the set time frames and that notes had been added to the HSBC file and it had confirmed 
that the transfer would take place.
The representative complained that no further contact had been received from HSBC until 
Mr M received correspondence from it informing him the investments had been sold. He said 
HSBC should have contacted him, or Mr M, before the sale took place.   
The representative said it had then been in contact with HSBC and had been informed the 
investments had been sold by mistake. He said HSBC then subsequently informed him the 
sale of the investments was irreversible and that a complaint would need to be made to 
consider any financial loss. 
The representative said a complaint was made to HSBC over the phone and in that call, he 
indicated the loss was about £10,000 of additional tax liability. However, HSBC didnt uphold 
the complaint in full and £300 was offered, which the representative said wasnt fair in the 
circumstances.   
Our investigator considered Zs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
He noted that HSBC had made the decision to withdraw the SIF product which he 
considered it was entitled to do. The investigator said it wasnt disputed that HSBC had sent 
Mr M a letter and reminders informing him that he needed to have provided it with a transfer 
form, by 27 November 2020. He considered the documentation received by HSBC on 27 
November 2020 and noted that while it did contain a transfer form, there was a clear 
statement in bold stating that it wasnt an instruction to sell or transfer assets. So, the 
investigator didnt think it was unreasonable that HSBC hadnt treated this form as a transfer 
request. The investigator took into account the incorrect information provided in the 27 November 
phone call. He noted that HSBC had acknowledged and apologised for that error and he 
considered the £300 compensation offered to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The investigator didnt think that if the correct information had been given out and HSBC had 
indicated that it didnt consider the documents sent to be a valid transfer request, that it 
would have changed the outcome. Because the forms were received on the day of the 
deadline and the phone call also took place on that day. So, he didnt think Zs 
representative could have sent another request in time. 
Z didnt agree with our investigators conclusions. Its representative explained that both 
forms: the initial asset Transfer instruction form and the  transfer form, were sent at the same 
time. 
He said it was the policy of the third -party provider to first send the initial Asset Transfer 
form, to assess what stocks or funds need to be transferred and confirm that they could be 
held on its platform. Zs representative said he already assessed this with the new provider 
and the relevant fund was available, but the new provider still had to complete its processes 
in order to adhere to its internal compliance. 
The representative said that all procedures were followed but the new provider worked with 
them to make the transfer happen immediately, by also sending the transfer request before 
the deadline date.
He said this was fully explained to HSBC before the deadline, on the deadline and after, and 
at all times he was assured by HSBC that all paperwork had been received in time and was 
all in order for the transfer to be completed. So, the representative said HSBC had taken 
away the opportunity for them to rectify any issue.
The representative said, in his view, the misinformation from the phone calls had a much 
greater impact than the investigator had concluded. He acknowledged he had made it clear 
to Mr M that it was going to be very close to achieve all the work within the deadline. 
However, he said they had completed everything HSBC had requested, and HSBC had 
confirmed to them it had received all it needed. 
As no agreement could be reached Zs complaint was referred to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it would have been disappointing for Mr M to be informed by HSBC that it was 
no longer going to provide Zs SIF account. However, I agree with the investigator that 
HSBC was entitled to make the commercial decision to stop providing this particular platform 
to its customers. Having said that, I think it had to manage the administration of this in a fair 
and reasonable way by giving Z plenty of notice and clearly setting out the options open to it. 
I also think the time it gave to its customers to respond had to allow them sufficient time to 
consider their options.  
Was sufficient notice given in the circumstances?
The first letter was sent to Z, via Mr M, in September 2020 and informed it that if Mr M 
wanted to transfer the funds, the deadline for HSBC receiving an instruction to transfer was 
27 November 2020. So, I think that was sufficient notice to enable Mr M to consider what he 
wished to do and to take any actions necessary. I understand that Mr M was under a fair 
amount of pressure at the time because of the impact of the pandemic, but as HSBC was 
giving him months rather than weeks, I dont think this was unreasonable in the 
circumstances.I also note that there were then two further reminder letters sent in October and November to 
prompt Mr M to take action if he hadnt already done so.
Were the letters sent by HSBC to Z clear and not misleading?
The September letter informed Z that HSBC was closing its SIF account and set out the two 
options available to it. In a section entitled  Dates you need to know about it gave the date 
of  27 November 2020 and said:
If you choose option 1, we must have received a request from the new fund provider to 
transfer the investments out of the SIF/IPP account by this date.
If you choose option 2, we must have received your request to close your Account by this 
date. 
If we dont receive your instruction by this date, any request to buy, sell or switch Fund 
Shares including Regular Saving payments may not be accepted.  
So, I am satisfied on balance that HSBC set out clearly in its correspondence to Z the 
options available to Mr M and the relevant deadline, and that the information it provided was 
not therefore misleading in any way. 
I also consider it was implied within that correspondence that a request to transfer would be 
a clear, non-ambiguous, and valid request received by that date. Because, HSBC had a duty 
to administer the account correctly so it couldnt transfer investments unless it was satisfied 
that a valid request had been made. 
Instructions received by HSBC on 27 November 2020
Zs representative has said that in the lead up to the 27 November he was in direct contact 
with the HSBC investment centre, to make sure that the relevant forms had been received 
within the time limits set. 
So, we asked HSBC for any call recordings or call notes during that timeframe. It provided 
recordings for telephone calls made by Zs representative on 16 and 27 November 2020 
which I have carefully considered, together with the forms sent to HSBC and the 
correspondence in this case.
Zs representative contacted HSBC on 16 November 2020 to enquire about the 
requirements and the process for gaining authority to deal with Zs account on Mr Ms behalf. 
It seems from what Mr Zs representative said, that his firm had recently been instructed by 
Mr M.  HSBC explained that it required a letter of authority and confirmed this had to be 
written and sent as a hard copy via the post, rather than in an email.
It appears that a letter was then sent, dated 18 November 2020, providing authority for 
HSBC to communicate with Zs representative but it wasnt received by HSBC until 26 
November 2020, as it was date-stamped on that date. It may be that some of that delay was 
a result of the issues businesses were facing at that time in sending and receiving post 
during the pandemic.  
But, in any event, it wasnt until fairly late in the timeframe that the relevant authority had 
been provided to HSBC to enable it to communicate with Zs representative about Zs 
account. 
Documents relating to the transfer were then sent to HSBC and received on 27 November 
2020, which was the date of the deadline. The first page of the documents dated 25 
November 2020 was asking for information about the investments held and said that it 
enclosed a signed asset transfer instruction which enabled the new provider to act on behalf 
of Z.  The same document then stated in bold Please note this is not an instruction to sell or 
transfer assets.So, I can see why HSBC took the view that it couldnt be satisfied that a valid instruction to 
transfer the holdings in the account had been provided. And I am satisfied that it wouldnt 
have been able to carry out a transfer without a valid instruction. 
Furthermore, HSBC has highlighted that the process for an in specie transfer of investments- 
that is to say where the investments are not sold prior to the transfer- is that the new 
provider would ask for information about what funds were held and the quantity involved. 
That information would be provided together with a valuation so both parties knew what is 
being transferred. I consider that is correct because it is important for the parties involved to 
be clear on what is being transferred and I note this is similar to the process for stocks and 
shares ISAs.  
The new provider would then make the request for those funds to be transferred and a 
transfer date would be agreed. 
I note on the transfer form there is a small note which states Please include a share 
statement or valuation with this instruction which I consider suggests the process requires 
information and a valuation in this type of transfer. And the initial information gathering form 
asks for full details of Zs investments including the full name and type and number of units.  
Although I note that the transfer document did include information about the fund involved 
which would suggest that the new provider already had some of this information. 
In any event, I think the difficulty with sending both documents on the same day and those 
documents arriving on the day of the deadline, was that it didnt allow sufficient time for 
those steps to be taken, or at the very least for what was required to be clarified and 
provided. And HSBC had said that it had to have a valid instruction by that date which, as I 
have said, I think was implied in the information sent to Z, via Mr M. 
I also note the three letters sent by HSBC all explained very clearly what would happen if the 
transfer request from the new provider wasnt received by that date, namely that the 
investments would be sold. So, I think it was made clear that if Mr M didnt want the 
investments in Zs account to be sold, then the transfer process had to be set in motion with 
sufficient time to avoid that outcome. 
I appreciate that Zs representative was acting within a short time frame which may be why 
the two steps were incorporated. But, HSBC, as the existing provider had to ensure it had a 
valid instruction in order to carry out the transfer. And I think there was sufficient ambiguity in 
what was received by HSBC, for it to form the view that it couldnt be satisfied that it had 
received a valid transfer request at that point, which was the day of the deadline it had set. 
Contact from HSBC post 27 November 2020
I understand the point the representative makes, that he feels there was a lack of empathy 
towards Mr M, because HSBC didnt contact Mr M, or Zs representative, before selling the 
funds. But, I take into account that these letters informing customers that these types of 
account were closing would have been sent out to all holders of those accounts, not just to 
Z, as HSBC was closing its platform and so wouldve been dealing with the closure of  a 
number of these types of accounts. 
So, I dont think HSBC was just applying this deadline to Z. I think there was a framework as 
to how this would happen, and a deadline was put in place so that HSBC could be effective 
in dealing with all these types of accounts. 
And while I do appreciate that there were particular demands on consumers such as Mr M at 
that time caused by the pandemic, I think that also wouldve been the case for HSBC and its 
employees.
Information provided in telephone call of 27 November 2020 
HSBC has accepted that it gave incorrect information to Zs representative on that date. So, I 
think the key issue here is the impact of that information. I note the representative was informed by HSBCs operative that HSBC had received the 
documents and the transfer would go through as normal. So, given the tight deadline, I think 
it would have been reassuring for Mr M to have then been informed the transfer was going 
through, via his representative. 
On that basis, I consider it would have been inconvenient for Mr M, acting on behalf of Z, to 
subsequently find out that wasnt the case and that the investments had been sold. 
Particularly, as his representative has explained that the sale of the investments resulted in 
Z incurring an additional tax liability. And I think some compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by the incorrect information it gave in that telephone call should be paid by HSBC. 
HSBC has offered £300 which I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
note HSBC wrote to Mr M on 9 December 2020. So, I think shortly after that, Mr M would 
have been made aware that the transfer wasnt being processed and the investments were 
being sold. And, in any event, Zs representative has said that Mr M received confirmation of 
the sale on around 17 December. I take it account that as a result of the call Mr M was under 
the incorrect impression that Zs transfer was going through for about two weeks. I also note 
that HSBC apologised and offered compensation in its final response letter issued at the 
beginning of February 2021. 
However, I dont think giving incorrect information on 27 November changed the outcome 
because it was the last day for a valid transfer instruction to be given.  And, as I have said, 
the process was to first ask for the details of the funds held in the account. Even if HSBC 
had responded to that information request on the same day, in writing, and/or clarified the 
assets available for transfer, I dont think it is more likely than not that the transfer request 
could then have been re-sent and acknowledged and considered on the same day.  
On that basis I think the compensation offered by HSBC is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Z £300 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Zs complaint against HSBC Bank Plc is upheld in part and HSBC 
should pay compensation of £300 as set out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman