DRN-4250718
Complaint
Mr M has complained about high-cost short-term credit instalment loan he took out with Gain 
Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream). 
He says Lending Stream provided him with a loan that was unaffordable for him.
Background
Lending Stream provided Mr M with a single loan in November 2022. The loan was for £400 
and was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments of £107.79. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Lending Stream had told us. And she 
thought that Lending Stream hadnt treated Mr M unfairly and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about short term lending on our website. And 
Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding Mr Ms
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr M was provided with a high-interest loan, intended for short-term use. So Lending Stream
needed to make sure that it didnt provide it irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr M before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lending Stream says it agreed to Mr Ms application after hed provided details of his
monthly income and expenditure. It says the information Mr M provided on his income and
expenditure showed that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was
committing to. And in its view, these circumstances meant that it was reasonable to lend in 
this instance. 
On the other hand, Mr M says that the loan was unaffordable and should never have been 
provided to him. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Lending Stream have said. The first thing for me
to say is that this was Mr Ms first loan with Lending Stream and while I accept Lending 
Stream wont have known this at the time the loan was repaid early. Indeed the total period 
of time Mr M was indebted to Lending Stream for was for around only 18 days. 
So Mr M was only indebted to Lending Stream for a very short period considering that this 
was supposed to be an instalment loan. And I dont think that there was any established 
pattern in Mr Ms borrowing needs, at least from Lending Stream, at this stage. I think that 
this is important context to keep in mind here.
The information provided does suggest that Mr M was asked to provide details of his income
and expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions
Lending Stream asked Mr M and this was Mr Ms first loan, which was for a low amount, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to rely on the information Mr M was 
providing in this instance.
I accept that Mr M says that his circumstances were not reflected either in the
information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained about him. Im 
sorry to hear that Mr M was struggling financially and that he ended up applying for further 
credit. But Lending Stream could only make its decisions based on the information it had 
available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I think Lending Stream 
was entitled to rely on what it was being told by Mr M.
Equally it's only really fair for me to uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did
something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in
deciding to lend to Mr M - it carried out reasonable checks even though its looks like the
information it mightve been provided with was inaccurate.
Lending Stream reasonably relied on the information provided with and given the amount of
the repayments involved and the overall circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Lending Stream to lend  especially as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it 
had, to suggest Mr M wouldnt be able to sustainably repay this loan.
I appreciate that Mr M has said that the fees and charges for the loan were not clearly set 
out to him. However, Ive looked at a copy of the credit agreement which Mr M had to sign 
before Lending Stream released the funds from this loan to him. And I can clearly see that 
the agreement states Mr M has to pay six monthly instalments of £107.79. 
So I think that   Mr M ought to have known how much this loan was going to cost him in total, 
particularly as Lending Stream is unlikely to have released the loan funds before it received 
a signature from Mr M confirming his agreement to the terms, at the time he agreed to it. 
  
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lending Stream acted unfairly 
when providing Mr M with his loan. The checks that it carried out were unreasonable in this 
instance and it let Mr M know how much hed have to repay. Im therefore not upholding     
Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman