DRN-3963371
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined a claim under 
a home insurance policy.
Mrs C is represented by Mr N, who I will also refer to in my decision.
What happened
Mrs C contacted Ageas to make a claim when a wall in her garden came down during a 
storm. Ageas sent a surveyor to assess the damage. It then declined the claim because it 
said the wall collapsed due to wear and tear.
Mr N complained to Ageas. He said he had received a copy of the surveyors report and that 
it was inaccurate and the surveyor had lied or provided misleading information in a number 
of places. When Ageas replied it said the condition of the wall would affect its stability. There 
was evidence of split or crumbling brickwork. There were also signs of lichen and moss, 
which absorb moisture and weakened walls. It said pre-existing issues werent covered by 
the policy. It accepted that the wall was 32 years old, not 40 years old as stated in the report. 
It also confirmed that the disclaimer on the report was standard. Ageas said it had also 
looked at Mr Ns concerns about the surveyor, including other work he might undertake. It 
confirmed that the surveyor was qualified to carry out the survey and said it was unable to 
comment on his personal life. Ageas said the surveyor had no reason to decline the claim 
other than based on his findings.
So, Mr N complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said there was 
evidence of pre-existing issues with the wall and that it was reasonable for Ageas to 
conclude that was the main cause of the damage. She said Ageas had confirmed the 
surveyor was appropriately qualified and that overall the report showed the issues identified. 
She also said she hadnt seen anything that showed Ageas hadnt properly investigated Mr 
Ns complaint or responded to the issues raised.
As Mr N didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 13 February 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time of the damage. There were 
windspeeds of about 60mph, which would be considered storm strength winds. I also think a 
storm could cause a wall to fall. So, I think the answer to the first two question is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question. When the surveyor visited, the wall that had 
collapsed was on the pavement and a fence had been put up in its place. The surveyor 
assessed the wall, including other parts of the wall that remained standing. He found 
evidence of wear and tear to the top part of the wall and said the freeze/ thaw effect over a 
number of cycles had also affected the wall. He said the wall had reached the end of its 
serviceable life.
Im aware Mr N has disputed the contents of the report and the ability of the surveyor. So, 
Ive thought about this. Mr N said the surveyor had lied when he marked an online aerial 
image, as he had drawn arrows on a photo and said neighbouring fences had remained 
standing. Mr N said the use of the image was misleading and that he had helped neighbours 
fix their fences following the storm. He was also concerned the surveyor had said the wall 
was 40 years old, when it was 32 years old. 
I dont think its unusual for surveyors or insurers to use pre-existing online images as part of 
considering a claim. Mr N has said the labelling was inaccurate. So, Ive thought about 
whether this made a difference to the claim. Ageas has said it didnt put weight on this image 
when it considered the claim. It is also my understanding that the fence in Mr Ns garden 
remained standing, as did the one on the opposite side of the road, which was clearly 
highlighted in the report. 
In terms of the age of the wall, Ageas told the surveyor that Mr N had said the wall was 32 
years old. From what Ive seen, the surveyor said Mr N had told him the wall was about 40 
years old, but didnt attempt to dispute it was actually 32 years old. Regardless, I havent 
currently seen anything that shows this information made a difference to the claim itself.
Having considered this carefully. Im not currently persuaded that the surveyor more likely 
than not deliberately lied. Even if the surveyors markings on the photo were misleading and 
the wall was 32, rather than 40, years old, Im also not currently persuaded this made a 
difference to the claim decision. 
Mr N has also said he didnt think the surveyor was an appropriate person to carry out the 
survey. He said he had searched for the surveyor online and found that the surveyor had 
another occupation that showed he didnt base his decisions on evidence or facts. Ive 
thought about this, but I havent seen anything that persuades me the surveyor wasnt 
qualified to carry out the survey. Even if the surveyor currently or in the past had another 
particular line of work, this doesnt change my view on this.
Ive also thought about the damage to the wall. Mr N doesnt seem to dispute there was 
some pre-existing damage at the top of the wall. However, he has said that if this was the 
cause of the damage, only the top part of the wall would have collapsed, whereas the wall 
collapsed from close to the base. 
When Mr N complained, Ageas asked the surveyor for his comments on this. The surveyor 
said:
Although only the top section of wall shows signs of age-related mortar breakdown it is 
within this section that the top bracket for a pair of heavy gates is housed. In our opinion the 
weakened mortar has led to excess movement with this bracket and its unstable housing, 
resulting in a torsion effect by the exertion of forces through the longitudinal axis while the 
lower brackets are held fast, this has directed excessivetorsion stress to the lower section of the wall bringing about its inevitable failure.
Could this collapse have been prevented by the repair or replacement of the top section of 
wall prior to the recent storms? Most likely, before the wall had deteriorated to its present 
level it had survived stronger winds and storms during its lifespan
I think this provides a credible reason for why the whole wall collapsed and not just the top 
section and is consistent with the surveyors findings as shown in the report. Im also aware 
that when Mr N provided information to this service, he said he thought the gates attached to 
the wall likely created a sail effect, intensifying the pressure on the wall and pulling it over. I 
think this also supports that the gates were likely to be a significant contribution to the wall 
collapsing. Based on this, I currently think the evidence shows that a combination of wear 
and tear and a design issue were the main cause of the wall collapsing, rather than the 
storm. As a result, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim.
Mr N has also said Ageas didnt fully respond to his complaint. Ive seen evidence that after 
Ageas issued its final response letter, Mr N listed some points he said hadnt been 
addressed. Ageas then looked at these and provided a further response. However, he has 
also said Ageas didnt provide him with a transcript of the call Mrs C made to Ageas when 
she first reported the claim and that during this call she had been told Ageas would pay for 
temporary repairs to the wall. Ive looked at all the details weve been provided by both 
parties about this complaint and havent seen anything that showed me this was part of the 
complaint. As a result, I dont currently intend to comment on this issue in my decision, as I 
havent seen evidence that it formed part of the complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 13 March 2023.
Mr N replied with a number of comments. In summary, these were:
The surveyor had misled or lied about the age of the wall and the kind of plant growth on 
the still standing wall. He had also provided inaccurate information about fences still 
standing when they had been blown down. He had also said the wall wasnt tied to the 
property when it was.
In Mr Ns opinion, there was no mortar deterioration and so the surveyor had also misled 
or lied about this.
Mr N said even if these issues had no influence on the claim, the surveyors findings in 
other claims should be investigated to ensure no claim was wrongly declined.
Mr N said he didnt contest there were split bricks at the top of the wall that was still 
standing. He provided some photos and said there were no signs of frost damage both in 
a photo of the blown over wall or in a photo taken a few years previously. Mr N said the 
condition of the wall was based on a small part that was still standing. He also thought 
the split bricks could be explained by it being covered by an apple tree that had then 
been pruned back, which would have aided moisture retention and therefore been liable 
to frost damage.
Mr N said the photos showed half the gate was still attached to the pillar on the 
remaining wall. He said there was no validity to Ageas claim about torsion.
Mr N said he had spoken to a surveyor who had said that rather than the gate acting as 
a sail the inherent gaps in wooden gates would have lessened the impact as they would 
have worked as wind breaks. 
Fences would also have acted as wind breaks, which was why some of the fences were 
still standing.Mr N said the only reason the wall could have blown over was due to a tunnel/ funnel 
effect of the wind gust. He said a tunnel/ funnel effect was where wind gets into a narrow 
space and speeds up exponentially.
Ageas didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive considered the points raised by Mr N, but this 
doesnt change my view.
Mr N has summarised his concerns about the surveyor. I was aware of all of these points 
when I made my provisional decision. As part of that, I considered whether Mr Ns concerns 
had an impact on the overall claim decision and was of the view that it didnt. I should also 
note that it is my role to look at individual complaints. I dont have the ability to require an 
insurer to review other claims it has assessed.
Following my provisional decision, Mr N disagreed that the gates were a factor. I note Mr N 
had previously said he thought the gates might have created a sail effect. Ive also looked at 
the photos again and saw the gate that was attached to a remaining section of the wall, 
which I was already aware of. I dont think that means the gate and wall that both fell werent 
affected in the way described.
I was also aware the condition of the top of the parts of the wall that remained standing were 
used as an indication of the likely condition of the wall that had collapsed. I dont think this 
was unreasonable. As I noted in my provisional decision, by the time the surveyor visited, 
the wall had been replaced by a fence. When the wall collapsed it was blocking a pavement. 
The wall had, understandably, been moved when the surveyor visited, although was still 
available to be inspected, which the surveyor did. 
Ive looked at the photos Mr N re-sent, which I had already considered. One of the photos 
showed the recently collapsed wall from one end, with the part of the wall that seemed to 
have been more significantly affected further away in the photo. I think its difficult to see the 
full condition of the wall from that photo. But I dont think this showed there wasnt an issue 
with the top of the wall at the time of the collapse. Having looked at this again, Im not 
persuaded to change my view on whether the wall was fairly assessed as part of the claim.
Mr N also said he thought the wall had collapsed due to a tunnel/ funnel effect. I accept that 
in some circumstances such an effect might cause a wall to collapse. But, I havent seen 
evidence that persuades me this was more likely the cause of the collapse for this particular 
wall. 
Having thought about all of the evidence, I remain of the view that it was reasonable to 
decide a combination of wear and tear and a design issue were the main cause of the wall 
collapsing, rather than the storm. As a result, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to decline 
the claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman