DRN-3581858
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs S complain because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a claim for 
a cancelled trip under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to IPA include the agents appointed to administer claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr G and Mrs S held an annual travel insurance policy provided by IPA over several years.
The first policy ran from August 2019 to July 2020, and the second policy ran from August
2020 to July 2021.
In November 2019, Mr G and Mrs S paid for a trip which was originally due to take place in
June 2020. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office
(FCDO) advised against all but essential international travel due to the circumstances
surrounding Covid-19. As a result, in May 2020, Mr G and Mrs Ss trip was rescheduled to
January 2021.
When Mr G telephoned IPA to renew his policy in 2020, he was told he would be covered for
the cancellation of any trips booked before 17 March 2020 if the FCDO advised against
travel due to Covid-19. Mr G subsequently contacted IPA again and said it was unlikely that
hed be able to travel in January 2021, but he could reschedule for January 2022. IPA again
told Mr G that hed be covered if he cancelled his trip as it had been booked before the
Covid-19 pandemic.
In November 2020, Mr G and Mrs S cancelled their trip because the FCDO was advising
against all but essential travel to their intended destination. This advice remained in place on
their planned departure date in January 2021. Mr G and Mrs S made a claim with IPA for
their non-refundable accommodation and permit costs.
IPA initially said Mr G and Mrs Ss claim wasnt covered because theyd rebooked their trip 
after the Covid-19 pandemic had been declared. IPA later said the claim wasnt covered
because Mr G and Mrs S had booked a package holiday and, so, their costs were 
recoverable from elsewhere. When Mr G and Mrs S complained, IPA acknowledged that
they werent eligible for a refund from their travel provider but said, as it hadnt advised Mr G
to cancel the January 2021 trip, it hadnt caused Mr G and Mrs S any financial loss and
therefore, couldnt settle the claim. But IPA offered to pay Mr G and Mrs S £50 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience they experienced in respect of how their 
complaint was handled.
Unhappy, Mr G and Mrs S brought the matter to the attention of our service. One of our
investigators looked into what had happened but didnt uphold Mr G and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Mr G and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so their complaint was referred 
to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr G and Mrs Ss complaint in June 2022. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when making my decision about Mr G and Mrs Ss complaint.
I dont intend to make any finding about whether I think the cancellation of a trip due to the
FCDO advising against travel is an insured event under Mr G and Mrs Ss policy. IPA
doesnt seem to dispute that it is. But Ive considered the reasons which IPA gave for
declining Mr G and Mrs Ss claim and I dont think any of these reasons were correct, or fair
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr G and Mrs Ss trip was booked in November 2019, before Covid-19 was declared as a
pandemic. The trip wasnt subsequently cancelled and rebooked for January 2021  the
November 2019 booking was rescheduled from June 2020 to January 2021. So, when
considering Mr and Mrs Ss claim, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the
circumstances for IPA to consider November 2019 as the booking date of this holiday.
IPA then said Mr G and Mrs Ss claim wasnt covered as their trip was a package and,
therefore, was ATOL protected. ATOL (Air Travel Organisers Licence) protects booking with
travel businesses who cease trading and isnt relevant to Mr G and Mr Ss situation.
The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) provide
protection to customers who have booked a package holiday with a travel provider if the
travel provider cancels the holiday. Mr G and Mrs Ss travel provider didnt cancel their
holiday  Mr G and Mrs S did. So, Mr G and Mrs S have no right to a refund for the costs
they are claiming for under the PTR.
Our investigator made conclusions about the travel providers likely actions and 
responsibilities under the PTR which I dont think were accurate. In particular, I dont agree
with the conclusion that, if Mr G and Mrs S hadnt cancelled when they did, the January 2021
trip would most likely have been cancelled by the travel provider. Mr G and Mrs S have
provided evidence to show, as of November 2020, the borders of their intended destination
were open and accepting international travellers, and that all the components of their holiday
were fully operational. Mr G and Mrs S were instead offered the option of rescheduling the
trip again to January 2022, which they didnt wish to and werent obliged to accept. So,
based on the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think its fair or reasonable to
conclude that Mr G and Mrs S disadvantaged IPA by cancelling the holiday when they did.
In any event, Ive listened to two telephone calls between Mr G and IPA before he cancelled
the January 2021 trip, during which I think IPA clearly stated that the circumstances of Mr G
and Mrs Ss claim would be covered. While IPA may not have specifically advised Mr G to
cancel the January 2021 trip, I think the information he was given by IPA led  in part  to his
decision to cancel the trip in November 2020 before the outstanding balance for his holiday
was due.
In summary therefore, I dont think its fair or reasonable for IPA to rely on any of the above
reasons to decline Mr G and Mrs Ss claim and I currently intend to direct IPA to reassess
their claim.
I also think IPA should pay Mr G and Mrs S additional compensation for the distress and
inconvenience they experienced because of the incorrect information provided about why
their claim was being declined. I think an award of £150  in addition to the £50 which IPA
has already offered  would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances to reflect the impact
of IPAs actions on Mr G and Mrs S.Mr G and Mrs S said they agreed with my provisional decision and that they had no further 
comments to make. IPA didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any additional comments or provided any new evidence, I see no 
reason to change my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Inter Partner Assistance SA should put things right and do the following;
reassess Mr G and Mrs Ss claim, subject to the remaining policy terms and 
conditions;
pay Mr G and Mrs S a total of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they experienced. This includes the £50 previously offered.
Inter Partner Assistance SA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it that Mr G and Mrs S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr G and Mrs Ss complaint and I direct Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman