DRN-2550975
The complaint
Mr T complains that V12 Retail Finance Limited trading as V12 Finance unfairly rejected his 
claim brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He wants compensation 
for damage resulting from the supply of goods he says werent fit for purpose.
What happened
Mr T tells us that in November 2018, he purchased some alloy wheels and tyres for his 
vehicle from an online business Ill refer to as W. And that he used a fixed sum loan 
financed by V12 to pay for these. He says that the tyres supplied were low profile. Also that 
the wheels were supplied with the wrong size wheel nuts. Mr T says his vehicle suffered 
suspension damage. And that hes provided a report from his garage, a business Ill refer to 
as A. He wants the cost of repairs to be refunded and to be provided with replacement 
wheels with the correct tyre specification.
V12 told us that W had supplied the items that Mr T had selected from the online site. And 
that Mr T had confirmed that it was the tyres as opposed to the wheels which had caused 
the problem. It said that the report provided by A, stated that the suspension shouldve been 
calibrated prior to the fitting of the wheels. And not that the goods sold were unsuitable. V12 
said it couldnt identify any breach of contract by W so it was unable to uphold Mr Ts claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr T 
had been provided with the option of purchasing either a 20 or 22 wheel size. And that hed 
chosen the larger size. She found that the report provided by A had confirmed that the wheel 
supplied fitted the type of vehicle driven by Mr T. But that it needed the suspension to be 
calibrated. As the wheels had been fitted by a third party  not by W  she didnt think it fair 
to hold W responsible (and by extension V12) for the third party fitter not calibrating the 
suspension before fitting the wheels.
Mr T didnt agree with this outcome. He said that there was nothing on Ws website to show 
the suspension required altering. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr T experienced damage to his vehicles suspension which led to unwanted 
expense. And I can understand hed be upset if he thought this was due to being misled 
about the suitability of the wheels and tyres he purchased.
Mr Ts complaint is about being supplied with the wrong wheels and / or tyres for his vehicle. 
And he says this caused it to incur damage to the suspension. He feels W should have been 
clearer in the information it provided.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer a like claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. A misrepresentation is a false 
statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter an agreement. And as a consequence 
of the misrepresentation to suffer a loss.
In order to find that V12 was liable Id have to be satisfied that W had either misrepresented 
the items it supplied or alternatively hadnt supplied the items which Mr T ordered.
Im not an expert in tyres and wheels but I understand that the term low profile indicates 
that the sidewall of the tyre is shallower than normal. And its often the case that the tyre is 
fitted to a larger diameter wheel. The intention being to improve the appearance of the 
vehicle and possibly also the handling. Mr T provided a guide to the pros and cons of low 
profile tyres. And this indicates they may be less able to protect against impact from such as 
uneven surfaces.
Our investigator confirmed that Ws website allows a consumer to choose from a number of 
available options for each different vehicle type. And that after the wheel has been selected 
an option is provided which allows a tyre to be purchased either separately or as a package 
with the selected wheel. Another option to purchase wheel nuts and other accessories is 
also provided. In short, the consumer is able to purchase items individually or as a package.
Ive seen the report from A which confirms it had serviced Mr Ts vehicle for over a year.
The report accepted that vehicles of the type driven by Mr T can and do take larger wheel 
but the suspension should be calibrated. In order to safely accommodate a different ride 
height and handling.
In other words, A confirms that the wheel size selected by Mr T fits his vehicle. It goes on to 
say that it wouldnt advise the fitting of low profile tyres to a vehicle of this type. This opinion 
is couched in terms of advice, so its still for the consumer to decide.
The information that Ive seen doesnt contain anything that makes me believe that W 
misrepresented the goods. Or that it supplied items that Mr T didnt order. I dont find that W 
stated anything other than the type of wheel it supplied fitted Mr Ts vehicle. And that the tyre 
supplied fitted the wheel. And Ive seen nothing to show that either statement was untrue. 
Theres nothing in the information which Ive seen to indicate that W was making any further 
claims or offering advice.
Ive also to consider that W didnt fit the wheels. I cant see that it should be held responsible 
if a third party fitter didnt make the necessary adjustments. As Im only looking at any liability 
that V12 may have incurred as a result of Ws actions, it follows that if W isnt liable then 
neither is V12.In summary, I find that it was fair and reasonable for V12 to conclude that thered been no 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by W for which it (V12) was liable. And in the light of 
that finding, not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I shant be asking it to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman