DRN-3927303
The complaint
Mrs B complains about a number of charges Ald Automotive Limited trading as Kia Contract
Hire (KCH) invoiced her for after her hire agreement with it came to an end and the vehicle
subject to that agreement had been returned.
Mrs B is represented in her complaint by a representative. But for ease I will simply refer to
Mrs B in this decision rather than Mrs B and her representative.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs B entered into hire agreement with KCH for a new vehicle. Under the
terms of the agreement Mrs B undertook to pay KCH 36 monthly hire payments of £357.32.
In August 2022, and after Mrs B had returned the vehicle at the end of the hire period, KCH
sent her a vehicle appraisal invoice for £775 broken down as follows:
Wheel LHF Corroded £90
Wheel LHR Corroded £90
Door LHF Scratched £120
C post LH Dented £155
Qtr Panel LHR Dented £40
Door RHF Paint Chips £120
Incomplete Service History £160
Total £775
In August 2022, and unhappy with the above invoice, Mrs B raised a complaint with KCH.
KCH issued Mrs B with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL KCH said
that it had waived the following charges:
Door LHF Scratched £120
Door RHF Paint Chips £120
but the other charges totalling £535 (£90/£90/£155/£40/£160) stood.
In October 2022, and unhappy with the content of KCHs FRL, Mrs B referred matters to our
service for investigation.
In October 2022 Mrs B paid KCH £375 of the reduced sum being sought from her of £535,
leaving a sum of £160 for an incomplete service history unpaid.
Mrs Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that
KCH should:
waive the incomplete service history charge of £160
pay Mrs B £100 for the distress and inconvenience she had been caused
remove any adverse information it may have recorded with third party credit
reference agencies in respect of Mrs Bs hire agreement
but it need do nothing further.
Mrs B responded to say she accepted the investigators view and KCH responded to say it
didnt. And because of the latter Mrs Bs complaint was passed to me for review and
decision.
In January 2023 I issued a provisional decision on this case. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her initial complaint to KCH Mrs B complained that the hire agreement had been 
mis-sold or misrepresented to her. But she has since confirmed to our service that 
although this was a matter addressed by KCH under cover of its FRL she doesnt 
want, or need, this matter considered by me. And for this reason, I make no finding 
on this particular matter in this decision.
Its my understanding that Mrs B accepts that she is liable to KCH for the damage 
charges totalling £375 because she has paid this sum to it. But for the avoidance of 
doubt I can confirm that having considered the inspection report undertaken by a 
company that I will call B Im satisfied that damage to both wheels, the left hand C 
post and the left hand rear quarter panel is damage that is beyond fair wear and tear 
(as defined by the British Vehicle rental and Leasing Association) and the sum of 
£375 charged by KCH in this respect is both fair and reasonable.
I will now turn to the charge for the incomplete service history of £160 that Mrs B 
says she shouldnt have to pay.
Its not in dispute that Mrs B had the necessary two services undertaken on the 
vehicle, one in September 2020 and one in August 2021. But the £160 charge isnt 
for a missed service but for a missing stamp in the service history booklet. And its 
not in dispute that Mrs B didnt get the vehicle service history booklet stamped in 
respect of the August 2021 service.
Now I appreciate Mrs B feels the charge of £160 is unfair, but I note that she agreed 
to the following contractual terms when she entered into her hire agreement:
If you do not service the Vehicle promptly as required with the 
Manufacturers service schedule you must pay any costs that results from this 
(such as devaluation of the Vehicle). See clause 2.11 of the attached terms 
and conditions.2.11 states:
In the event that the Vehicle is not serviced promptly at the correct servicing 
intervals and in accordance with the instructions contained in the Vehicles 
handbook and/or if the Vehicles service booklet is not stamped by the 
servicing agent, the Customer agrees to pay any costs borne by [KCH] in the 
event that the incorrect servicing or non-recording of the service devalues the 
Vehicle or invalidates the Manufacturers warranty.
Given what 2.11 states I think that KCH is entitled, in principle, to charge Mrs B for 
the missing stamp in the vehicle service history booklet. But I need to be satisfied 
that the missing stamp devalued the vehicle.
Now KCH has been able to demonstrate that the vehicle sold for less than the 
expected auction price. But the difficulty I have is deciding to what extent this 
shortfall is down to the missing stamp rather than the other damage for which Mrs B 
has been charged for and paid.
But having regard to this shortfall in the round, what Mrs B paid for the August 2021 
service, and what I understand the effect on a vehicles price a missing stamp has, 
Im satisfied that £160 is a fair and reasonable sum for KCH to be able to seek (from 
Mrs B) the payment of.
For the avoidance of doubt, I would like to confirm that Ive considered whether KCH 
should have brought to Mrs Bs attention (before the car was sold) that there was a 
missing stamp in the vehicles service booklet. But I dont think it should have done. I 
say this having considered how quickly the vehicle was sold after it had been 
inspected and appraised by B and the fact that KCH disposes of a substantial 
number of cars every month.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs B. But it follows that 
having found KCH has done nothing wrong in seeking (from Mrs B) the sum of £160 
in respect of an incomplete service history (a missing stamp) it need not pay her 
anything for distress and inconvenience, as recommended by the investigator.
KCH responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs B responded to say she disagreed with my provisional decision and to say, in summary:
Although she accepts KCH might not have done anything wrong, neither had she.
Would she be able to peruse the servicing garage for the £160 given it didnt stamp 
the vehicles service booklet?
She understood that all services undertaken were held on computer and vehicle 
service booklets werent a thing now.
KCH benefited financially by the vehicle being returned with substantially less 
mileage than the hire agreement contracted mileage.
KCH had initially sought more by way of damage charges than was fair and the two 
charges that were waived by KCH were only waived when she disputed them along 
with the other five that werent waived by KCH.
Its unfair to have expected her to have read all the terms of the hire agreement.
The ombudsman service process appears to be biased towards businesses rather 
than consumers.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that I see no good reason to change my provisional findings 
and I now confirm them as final. However, for the sake of completeness, I would like to make 
the following comments on Mrs Bs response to my provisional findings.
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party and we look at things independently 
without taking sides. Its also open to either party to a complaint (or both) to disagree with an 
investigators view and to ask for matters to be considered afresh by an ombudsman and a 
decision issued. I would also add that although our service is free to consumers it isnt free 
to businesses. Its also the case that more often than not a decision issued by an 
ombudsman is one that concurs with the investigators view rather than not and whereas a 
business is bound by an ombudsmans decision, if accepted by the consumer, a consumer 
isnt bound by it if they dont accept it.
I accept that Mrs B might not have read all the hire agreement terms, but this was her 
choice. And the fact remains she signed the hire agreement to say that she was prepared to 
be legally bound by its terms.
Mrs B says that although she accepts KCH did nothing wrong, neither did she. Now I can 
understand why Mrs B holds this view, but I never said she didnt get the second service 
undertaken only that she didnt get the vehicle service booklet in respect of that service 
stamped and this was a requirement under the hire agreement terms. And this requirement 
stands regardless of whether services might now be recorded by garages electronically on 
one or more databases. I would also add that if Mrs B is of the view that she didnt need to 
get the vehicles service booklet stamped in respect of services undertaken, I dont 
understand why she got it stamped in respect of the first service.
I can see that Mrs B returned the vehicle with just over 13,000 miles on the odometer and 
the agreement had a contracted mileage of 21,000. Now Mrs B suggests this would have 
been to KCHs financial advantage and I dont disagree. But unfortunately, this scenario isnt 
uncommon and there is no provision under Mrs Bs hire agreement for her to be 
compensated for this.
I accept that KCH initially sought from Mrs B £615 in damage charges (excluding the £160 
charge for an incomplete service history) and it was only when she disputed these charges 
did KCH reduce them to £375 charges (excluding the £160 charge for an incomplete service 
history). But I dont think KCH did anything wrong in this respect and Im certainly satisfied 
that what KCH did in this respect doesnt warrant the making by me of any financial award in 
favour of Mrs B.
Finally, I would add that its not my role to comment on whether Mrs B has grounds for 
recovery of the £160 levied by KCH for an incomplete service history against the servicing 
garage. But I would say that if this is something Mrs B wants to do that she should seek 
appropriate advice before doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman