DRN-3991651
The complaint
Miss H complains about how the Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited trading 
as the Insurance Emporium (IE) settled her insurance claim.
What happened
In May 2021 Miss H took out an insurance policy for her horse Ill call D. From June 2021 
D showed signs of lameness and was treated by Miss Hs vet. Miss H made several claims 
for Ds treatment which were settled by IE. But sadly in February 2022 as D had a 
neurological condition Miss H agreed D should be euthanised.  Miss H claimed under her 
policy for the cost of treatment and the euthanising of her horse, as well as for Ds loss.  IE 
declined Miss Hs claim as they said that the euthanasia hadnt been performed on 
immediate humane grounds. But after further evidence was provided by Miss H, IE settled 
her claim for the cost of treatment and euthanasia and paid her £500 for the loss of D.  
Miss H complained to IE as she said D was valued at £7,500 and their handling of her 
claim had added to her distress over the loss of her beloved horse. Miss H referred her 
complaint to us.
IE said Miss H had first called them about an insurance quote for D in October 2020. At 
that time she was looking to insure D for £4,750. Miss H was asked to provide Ds medical 
history, but she didnt take up the quote, so the policy wasnt incepted. In May 2021 Miss H 
again called IE for a quote for both of her horses, including D. When setting up the policy 
IE made some administrative errors as Miss Hs details were incorrectly captured, but these 
were corrected. They said in the call Miss H told them shed purchased D for a £1, she was 
told the minimum value they could insure D for was £500. IE said Miss H didnt ask for the 
sum insured to be increased at any time in the call and the policy was set up with D  
insured for £500. 
They accepted they shouldnt have declined Miss Hs claim under the policy exclusion for 
death (euthanasia performed that wasnt on immediate humane  grounds). And should have 
accepted her claim under the policy term Loss of Use. IE accepted there had been services 
issues and offered to settle the complaint by paying Miss H £4750 less the difference in the 
premium amount shed have had to pay if shed insured D for that sum at the policys 
inception, an offer of £4,290.70 which included the £500 that had already been paid to her. 
But Miss H had rejected their offer.
Our investigator said IE had applied the terms of the policy correctly in offering the sum D 
was insured for £500. And that IE had settled Miss Hs other claims for the cost of treatment 
for D. But he said there had been service issues which had added to Miss Hs distress and 
inconvenience at this difficult time and asked IE to pay Miss H £250 to compensate her for 
this.
Miss H didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H made a number of claims for veterinary care for D from June 2021 until February 
2022. What remains in dispute is the amount IE has paid her in settlement for the loss of D,  
I wont be commenting on the other claims Miss H has made as these have been settled.
I can appreciate this has been a very difficult and distressing time for Miss H with the loss of 
a much-loved horse. When reaching my decision for this complaint Im required to consider 
whats covered by the policy as its written, and whether IE has acted fairly and reasonably in 
their actions with Miss H. This may appear matter of fact, but I dont mean any offence by 
taking this approach its simply my role in determining the outcome. Having done so, I 
partially uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why
Ive listened to the call Miss H made in May 2021 when she took out insurance cover with IE  
for her two horses D and B. Miss H is asked several questions about her horses, name, 
passport numbers, whether theyre both geldings, height, colour, date of birth, whether 
microchipped and how the horses will be used. Miss H is also asked about the purchase 
price of both D and B and she explains that D was purchased for one pound. At this 
point Miss H is told that D couldnt be insured for the purchase price as there was a  
minimum sum D could be insured for which was £500. Miss H doesnt ask for the sum 
insured amount to be increased or ask any questions about what this meant. The call goes 
on to explain what the policy will cover, and optional benefits are also discussed, Miss H 
adds additional cover including Loss of Use. Miss H also when asked about Ds  medical 
history explains that D has had eye issues in the past and its agreed that any issues with 
his eyes would be excluded from cover.
Miss H was sent in the first week of May 2021, a welcome letter with the policy schedule, the 
Insurance Product Information and the policy wording documents. I can see that the policy 
schedule shows D was insured for the sum of £500 and that the policy covered as standard 
death, theft and straying but also had the optional benefits of vets fees up to £5,000 per 
incident, saddlery and tack, loss of use and personal accident. The policy also provides 
detail of what each covered. 
Under the standard benefit cover for Death, Theft and Straying the policy says:
Sum insured or market value (if less); if your horse dies or is put to sleep on immediate 
humane grounds or is not found within 28 days of straying or being stolen from the stabling 
address {no excess}.
Miss H had also taken the optional benefit of Loss of Use (permanent incapacity) . This 
additional benefit meant if her horse was destroyed, she would receive 100% of the sum 
insured or market value if less.  When Miss H claimed for the treatment and loss of her 
horse in February 2022 IE considered her claim under the standard benefit cover for Death 
which was incorrect. This is why they at first declined the claim because there wasnt an 
immediate need for D to be put to sleep on humane grounds.  As a result, Miss H was 
asked additional questions and to provide further information about D which 
understandably caused Miss H unnecessary distress and inconvenience. But IE did go onto 
correctly settle her claim under the policys optional benefit of Loss of Use -  "100% sum 
insured or market value (if less) if destroyed". They paid Miss H £500 in settlement.Putting things right
Miss Hs policy for her horse provided cover in the event of the horses death up to lesser of
the sum insured, in this case £500, or the horses market value. Miss H has told us that her
horses market value was £7,500 and that when she first contacted IE about insurance cover 
for D, shed asked for the sum insured to be £4,750. But I cant say IE has acted unfairly as 
Miss H when the policy was incepted didnt ask for D to be insured for more than £500, and 
her premiums in respect of her policy reflected the sum insured. The policy covered her for 
the sum insured or market value, but only if less. As the sum insured was the lesser amount 
£500, I cant say IE has acted unfairly or unreasonably in settling Miss Hs loss claim for this 
amount. 
But the way IE handled Miss Hs loss claim as I outlined above has caused her unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience at what was already an upsetting time. So, I agree with our 
investigator that IE should pay Miss H £250 to compensate her for this.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask the Equine and Livestock Insurance Company 
Limited trading as the Insurance Emporium to pay Miss H £250 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman