DRN-3327776
The complaint
Mr W complains that QIC Europe Limited mishandled his claim on his specialist motor
vehicle insurance policy.
Where I refer to QIC, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold QIC responsible
for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of Mr Ws claim and complaint is a luxury four-wheel drive vehicle, made
in the year 2000 as a bespoke vehicle with a very high specification.
Through a broker, Mr W had the vehicle insured on a specialist vehicle policy under which
QIC was responsible for dealing with claims. He renewed the policy for the year from
February 2021. At that time, Mr W estimated the value of the vehicle as £3,000.00. Any
claim for damage was subject to an excess of £100.00.
By late June 2021, the vehicle had a recorded milage of about 123,000. Unfortunately, the
vehicle was damaged by fire. QIC treated it as a total loss.
In early July 2021, QIC offered £3,000.00 less the excess of £100.00, a total of £2,900.00.
Mr W complained that the vehicle had been worth more. By an email dated 6 July 2021, QIC
acknowledged his complaint. By a final response dated 7 July 2021, QIC turned down the
complaint.
Mr W first contacted us on 13 July 2021. By an email to QIC dated the same day, Mr W 
restated his complaint to QIC about the valuation of his vehicle.
Mr W signed a QIC form and dated it 14 July 2021.
In mid-September 2021, Mr W made a further complaint to us that QIC shouldnt have
written the vehicle off or at least not in category C, which meant that it would never again
appear on the road.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the
policy terms werent on an agreed value basis. He said that QICs engineers report
appears to suggest an estimated pre-accident value of £5,950.00. The investigator referred
to a price of £5,500.00 for a vehicle sold from a private seller that had done around 10,000
miles more than Mr Ws vehicle.
The investigator recommended that QIC should increase the settlement offer to between
£5,500.00 and £5,950.00  less the excess applicable on the policy.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to QIC on 26 January 2022. I summarise my findings:
It was clear that QIC wouldnt pay any more than the value stated in the policy 
schedule. And the policy schedule stated the value of £3,000.00.
Cazana listed a value of about £3,000.00. And the advertisements show a wide 
range of asking prices, all of which may be negotiated downwards. So I didnt 
consider that the advertisements were strong enough evidence to show that the 
Cazana valuation was wrong.
Mr W agreed to settle his claim and his complaint about the valuation.
Subject to any further information from Mr W or from QIC, my provisional decision was not to 
uphold this complaint . I didnt intend to direct QIC Europe Limited to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
QIC had nothing to add in response to the provisional decision. 
Mr W disagreed with the provisional decision. He said, in summary, that: 
When he took the insurance policy out, he specifically asked for a classic policy due 
to the type of vehicle he had and the age of it. He knew at that time he was going to 
carry out a lot of restoration work on his vehicle. And the value would obviously 
increase with the restoration carried out.
At the point when his vehicle was written off, he had carried out 90% of the 
restoration. The only thing left was to fit a new front bumper which he had, and this 
went with the vehicle when the recovery company collected it, along with all the 
service history and extensive receipts for work carried out in his ownership.
The insurance company assessor valued his vehicle at £6.000.00. 
The condition of his vehicle was also remarked upon by the recovery driver who 
deals with collecting vehicles day in day out and took the vehicle away. He couldn't 
believe how good it was and couldn't understand why it had been written off. There is 
video evidence to back up the condition of his vehicle held by the insurance 
company. The video was taken by the salvage company at their request and this is 
done with every vehicle they collect to make sure it is in the same condition as it was 
when assessed.
The insurance company was well aware that he wasn't happy with £3,000.00 pay-out 
and he would be challenging their decision and taking it to the ombudsman. This is 
all recorded by the insurance company as their phone calls are recorded. So the fact 
that he missed the box he had to tick to say he was only accepting this as an interim 
payment is neither here nor there as they have this from him verbally.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys disputeresolution rules (DISP). The effect of one of those rules is that  before we can deal with a
complaint - the consumer mustve first complained to the financial firm and waited up to
eight weeks for a final response.
Mr W says he used to work as a mechanic. But he didnt keep the damaged vehicle. And I
havent seen enough evidence to show that  before he brought his complaint to us - he
complained to QIC that the vehicle should be repairable. So  under DISP - I dont consider
that my decision should deal with the complaint that QIC shouldnt have treated his vehicle
as a total loss in category C.
Insofar as Mr W is complaining that the policy wasnt suitable for him and his vehicle, thats 
not a complaint I can uphold against QIC because of the involvement of the broker.
From a statement of fact document, I see that  before the renewal in February 2021  the
broker had recoded that Mr W had bought the car in July 2019 for £3,000.00. The broker
also recorded that Mr W still estimated its value at £3,000.00. Incidentally, the statement of
fact also recoded that the vehicle had a conversion to LPG (liquid petroleum gas).
The policy wasnt an agreed value policy that fixed the amount to be paid in the event of a
total loss. Rather, the policy provided that cover was limited to the lower of either market
value or the value declared on the policy schedule. This was reflected in the policy definition
of market value as follows:
Market value  the cost of replacing your vehicle with another of a similar make,
model, age, mileage and condition as at the time of the loss or damage, up to the
value stated in your policy schedule.
Moreover, the policy terms excluded the following:
Costs which exceed the market value of your vehicle or the value declared on your
policy schedule if the market value is more, if your vehicle is insured on a market
value basis.
And the Insurance Policy Information Document highlighted that exclusion as follows:
What is not insured?
Costs which exceed the market value of your vehicle or the value declared on your
policy schedule if the market value is more.
So Im satisfied that it was clear that QIC wouldnt pay any more than the value stated in the
policy schedule. And the policy schedule stated the value of £3,000.00. Thats one reason
why I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct QIC to pay any more.
For a vehicle like Mr Ws at the time of the fire, most of the trade guides dont list a value.
I have no reason to doubt that Mr W had spent time and money on restoring his vehicle. I 
accept that it was in good condition.
Ive noted that QICs independent assessor mentioned a valued of about £5,950.00. 
But Cazana lists a value of about £3,000.00. And the advertisements show a wide range of
asking prices, all of which may be negotiated downwards. So I dont consider that the
advertisements are strong enough evidence to show that the Cazana valuation is wrong.
Thats another reason why I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct QIC to pay
any more.In the QIC form signed by Mr W dated 14 July 2021, he ticked the option as follows:
Yes, I accept the proposed NET offer of £2,900.00 and would like a payment as
soon as possible. My bank details are
Mr W didnt tick the alternative option as follows:
No, I dont accept the valuation of my vehicle and I have contacted you to discuss
the matter. I am sending back the list of documents requested and request an interim
payment in the meantime.
If he had chosen not to accept the offer of £2,900.00 but to ask for an interim payment, then
I wouldve expected QIC to send him the £2,900.00 as an interim payment.
But the form gave Mr W only two choices. I dont accept that he missed ticking the box to 
request an interim payment. Rather I find that he chose to tick the box to accept the offer of 
£2,900.00. Notwithstanding the absence of the words full and final settlement, I consider 
that he agreed to settle his claim and his complaint about the valuation. Thats another 
reason why I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct QIC to pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct QIC Europe Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman