DRN-1307132
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service Metro Bank PLC has provided. He says it gave him 
incorrect advice regarding safeguarding a payment.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr B visited one of the branches of Metro Bank to discuss safeguarding a 
large payment he wished to make to a third party. He says he told the cashier at Metro Bank 
he wanted to ensure his money was as secure as possible and he was advised that a 
straight forward bank transfer would be the safest method. So, Mr B went ahead with that 
advice and completed a bank transfer to a third party for £12,500. The payment was for 
renovation work on Mr Bs garden. 
Since then Mr B has spoken to the third party who has explained to him that he is unlikely to 
receive the goods he paid for as they are entering administration. Mr B wants to recover the 
funds, so he asked Metro to raise a chargeback. 
Metro bank looked into Mr Bs concerns, but it said chargebacks apply to a card transaction 
but Mr B made a faster payment, so it couldn't raise a chargeback. Mr B remained unhappy 
as he says he was given the wrong advice and as a result, his money wasnt protected. He 
says he made Metro aware it was a large payment which needed to be safeguarded.  Due to 
Metros incorrect advice he is now left out-of-pocket and without the work being completed 
on his garden. So, Mr B complained to Metro Bank.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. He said Mr 
B made a faster payment on 17 November 2018 for the amount of £12,500. Therefore, this 
was a payment from one sort code and account number to another and therefore he said 
Metro couldn't have raised a chargeback. He went on to say that the advice Mr B was given 
was over the counter and therefore he couldn't comment on the conversation that took 
place. But form the evidence he had seen Mr B had signed for a faster payment to take 
place and therefore he couldn't hold Metro responsible for any loss Mr B has suffered.
Mr B didn't agree. He says as the investigator wasnt able to listen to the conversation that 
took place and that he could have simply carried out an account transfer himself, so he 
believed him attending the branch shows he was seeking assurance and guidance on the 
safest way to complete the transfer. So, as he didn't agree he asked for the case to be 
passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. 
Mr B says the cashier at Metro bank told him a faster payment was the best way to make a 
payment in order to protect his money. And while I dont dispute Mr Bs version of events, as this conversation happened face to face, I cant be certain what was discussed. So I have 
gone on to consider the events that took place.
Metro has provided a payment instruction confirmation which shows that Mr B authorised the 
payment to be made by faster payment. I have also reviewed Mr Bs account statements 
which shows he has made several payments using this method before (albeit, I cant see 
any for this amount). With that in mind, it's reasonable to suggest on balance Mr B was 
aware of how faster payments work.
Mr B has said he wouldn't have gone into branch if it wasn't to ask which method was the 
safest way to make the transfer. And on balance I think that is likely Mr B did go into branch 
to ask for advice, as I say, Mr B was familiar with these payments and as he has competed 
them previously without going into branch. But Metro Bank has explained it doesn't provide 
an advised service. At most, the advisor would provide the customer with the available 
options for them to make an informed decision. And given Mr B has provided authorisation 
and used faster payments regularly before, on balance I don't think he acted on incorrect 
advice provided by Metro Bank.
Mr B was asked what other payment methods were available to him in order to make that 
payment. As usually payments relating to construction or building work are often made by 
faster payments. Mr B hasn't provided any evidence to show he could have made this 
payment by an alternative method. So with that in mind, I think it is likely Mr B would have 
always made the payment in this way. He wanted the service he was paying for and this was 
one of few methods available to him.
With this in mind, I can't hold Metro responsible for the potential losses Mr B may be faced 
with. So I won't be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My Final decision is that i don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman