DRN-3458479
The complaint
Miss B complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc have misallocated her repayments.
What happened
Miss B had a credit card with Sainsburys which had a promotional offer on balance transfers 
which incurred no interest, but any purchases would incur interest. Miss B says that to help 
her limit the interest she paid, she would check her account and make payments to cover the 
purchase repayments, as these would be prioritised in terms of how Sainsburys allocate 
repayments with the highest interest incurring balances being paid before outstanding 
balances on promotional interest rates. 
Miss B says that Sainsburys did not do this as she noticed her promotional outstanding 
balance was reduced, which meant they had allocated some of her repayment to her 
promotional interest rate as opposed to her higher interest purchase rate. Miss B made a 
complaint to Sainsburys. 
Sainsburys did not uphold Miss Bs complaint, although they agreed as a gesture of goodwill 
that they would refund interest totalling £31.08 to her credit card. Sainsburys said that Miss 
B was purchasing items and paying for them before she had been billed for them. Due to 
this, some of the repayments had been allocated to her outstanding promotional balance, in 
line with the terms and conditions of her account. Miss B brought her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. She said that Sainsburys had acted in 
line with their terms and conditions. Our investigator explained that Miss Bs payment did 
first pay off the purchase transactions on her statement, which charged a higher rate of 
interest, but the purchases that Miss B referred to had not yet shown on her statement for 
that monthly period, therefore the payment was allocated to the balance transfer amount (the 
promotional interest rate). Miss B asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She 
also detailed the impact that the events had on her mental and physical health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at how Sainsburys should be allocating payments to Miss Bs account and if they 
have been clear with how this would happen. Im persuaded that Sainsburys have been 
clear about this and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account as this is something that Miss B would 
have needed to agree to before Sainsburys opened the account for her. The terms and 
conditions (section 2.3) show that If you do not pay off the full outstanding balance each 
month, we will use any payments that you make to us to pay off the transactions that appear 
on your statements starting with those transactions on which we charge the highest rate of 
interest.  We'll then pay off transactions charged at the next highest rate and so on down to 
the lowest rate of interest.  If the payment you make is not enough to pay off all of the 
transactions at a particular interest rate then we'll pay off the transactions in the following 
order: 
a. cash advances; 
b. purchases; 
c. money transfers; 
d. balance transfers; and 
e. default sums.
So Im persuaded this is clear. I say this as Miss B did not pay the full outstanding balance 
each month. It also says they would use any payments that she would make to them to pay 
off the transactions that appear on her statements. But as Sainsburys and our investigator 
have already explained, Miss B had been making repayments before some of the purchases 
appeared on her statements and this is why the payments have been allocated differently to 
how Miss B expected them to be.
Miss Bs credit card statements have a section titled allocation of payments. This also 
refers her to her terms and conditions for full details. So if Miss B had forgotten the section in 
the terms in conditions from when she originally read it and agreed to this as part of the 
acceptance of the account, she would have been able to refer back to the terms and 
conditions if she was unsure how the repayments would be allocated to her account. 
Ive looked at how the payments were allocated here. A statement was issued to Miss B on 9 
August 2021. Page four of the statement shows that the outstanding balance was made up 
of £2,673.01 for her promotional rate balance transfer and £876.67 made up of purchases. 
Between the statement being produced and the payment due date of 3 September 2021, 
Miss B made purchases totalling £186.89 on her account. But in the same period she made 
repayments totalling £1,070.09 towards her account.
As Ive previously mentioned regarding the terms and conditions of the account, if the 
account balance is not paid in full each month, payments are used to pay off transactions 
with the highest amounts of interest first. So as the new purchases had not been billed at the 
time of Miss Bs payments, once the outstanding balance of £876.67 had been cleared, this 
is why the promotional balance transfer outstanding balance was reduced after the 
purchases, as this was the only thing on her statement left unpaid once the purchases from 
the statement had been paid.
So Im satisfied that Sainsburys allocated Miss Bs payments in line with her terms and 
conditions and Im satisfied that there is no Sainsburys system issue causing an incorrect 
allocation of repayments here. Sainsburys also made a gesture of goodwill to refund some 
of the interest which they charged her and Ive seen no evidence she was provided any 
correspondence from Sainsburys showing her payments would be allocated in another way.
Ive read what Miss B has said about how the situation has affected her mental health and 
that stress can exasperate her medical conditions and Im truly sorry to hear this. But in 
order to uphold this complaint, I would need to see that Sainsburys had not followed their 
terms and conditions that Miss B would have needed to agree with in order to open the 
account. As they have followed the terms and conditions with how they allocated Miss Bs 
repayments, it follows that I dont require Sainsburys to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman