DRN-4049129
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as R complains that Covea Insurance Plc unfairly declined its claim 
following an accident, under its commercial motor insurance policy.  
What happened
R says its mechanic drove his daughter and son-in-law to a restaurant. His son-in-law asked 
him to drive his car as it was making a noise. The mechanic did so and noticed a noise 
coming from the rear. After dropping off at the restaurant he took the car to Rs garage and 
found a minor issue with the brakes that was simple to fix. On picking up his daughter and 
son-in-law in the same car, the mechanic was then involved in a collision. 
R made a claim to Covea, which it declined. It says Covea told it the car being driven 
belonged to a family member, which is excluded under its policy terms. R says the policy 
doesnt define family member and it doesnt consider a son-in-law to be a direct member of 
a family. It says other insurers dont include son-in-law under a definition of family and 
some dont have this restriction at all. R thinks Covea should pay the claim. 
In its response to Rs complaint Covea says its policy terms define what an insured vehicle 
is. The terms say this must not be a vehicle owned by a family member. Covea maintains 
that a son-in-law is considered a family member. As a result, it says there is no cover for Rs 
loss.   
R disagreed with this outcome and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold its complaint. She says in its ordinary everyday use, son-in-law reasonably indicates 
a family member. When R first notified Covea of its claim, it stated its mechanic was driving 
his daughter and son-in-law to a restaurant. She didnt think R had shown the car had been 
taken in the custody of the business. So, she didnt think Rs mechanic was driving the car in 
a business capacity. This meant there was no cover provided under Rs policy. 
R didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider its complaint.
The matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Let me explain. 
The circumstances of who was driving and when the accident occurred are not in dispute. 
Cover is provided by Rs policy in the event of a damage resulting from an accident. My 
focus here is whether Covea has fairly relied on its policy terms in order to decline Rs claim. 
Ive read Rs policy terms and conditions and copied the relevant excerpts below:
Insured Vehicle 
Any motor vehicle, which is: 
1. Your property; 2. the property of Your Spouse, if he or she is declared as a driver on this 
policy; 3. held in trust by You or in Your custody or control for Your motor trade Business; 4. 
a vehicle leased to the Policyholder on a lease agreement with a minimum initial duration of 
12 months.
It must not be:
e) a borrowed, lent or loaned vehicle, a courtesy vehicle, a vehicle owned by a family 
member (vehicles owned by Your Spouse are covered if they are declared as a driver on this 
policy) or a vehicle hired or leased to the Policyholder on a short-term agreement of less 
than 12 months
In its decline response Covea says the vehicle involved in the claim is owned by a family 
member of its mechanic. Its policy doesnt provide cover where a vehicle is owned by a 
family member. The policy terms dont provide any further information as to the definition of 
a family member.  
Our approach in these cases is to consider what the ordinary everyday use of son-in-law is. 
Having thought about this, I cant reasonably disagree with Covea that this refers to a family 
member. I understand R disagrees with this point. But this is an established approach we 
think is fair where a specific term or word isnt defined in the policy terms and conditions. So, 
in these circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for Covea to consider the car 
belonged to a family member of its mechanic.
Ive thought about Rs comments that, the insured can no longer as the family mechanic 
work on any family members cars. I understand Rs concern here. But I dont think the 
terms prevent its mechanic working on a family members car. The terms say an insured 
vehicle is one that is held in trust by R or in Rs custody for Rs motor trade business. I think 
this reasonably means that if R can show the use of the vehicle was in connection with the 
business, then cover is provided by the policy.
Ive read Rs letter in which it confirms what happened on the evening of the accident. This 
says the mechanic drove to pick up his daughter and son-in-law. He then drove the son-in-
laws car. After dropping off, he inspected the car at Rs garage and repaired an issue with 
the brakes. It says this was a minor issue, with no invoice issued. R says it was on the 
drive home from the restaurant, after the daughter and son-in-law had been dropped off, that 
the accident occurred. 
I dont dispute what R says in its statement. But there is no other evidence to show that the 
car was held in trust, or in Rs custody or control, for its motor trade business. This is 
required by the policy terms for cover to be in place. Based on this evidence Rs mechanic 
was driving a family members car at the time of the accident. Im satisfied that there is no 
cover provided under Coveas policy terms in these circumstances. 
Im sorry that R has suffered a loss that isnt covered by its policy. But I dont think Covea 
acted unfairly when relying on its policy terms to decline its claim for the reasons it gave. So, 
I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman