DRN-2526024
The complaint
Mr M complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs delay in handling the complaint and the 
amount it offered him in settlement for his claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms family home suffered an escape of water which entered his basement in July 2018 
and damaged his possessions. He said he used laundry and items of clothing to reduce the 
impact of the flooding and foul water and put footwear (at least forty pairs) in a sack. His 
claim to AXA was accepted and it appointed a loss adjuster to validate the losses.
AXAs loss adjuster visited Mr Ms home in August 2018 and Mr M said the loss adjuster 
photographed the damp footwear in the sack, outerwear and affected furniture. He said the 
loss adjuster noted damage to his items and described conditions in the basement as very 
wet and mouldy and accepted liability for the claim on AXAs behalf. Mr M said he told the 
loss adjuster he would need to throw affected items away due to health and safety concerns. 
He said the loss adjuster agreed and suggested he list all items claimed including clothing, 
linen and towels.  
Mr M said despite providing photos of shoes that were beyond repair the loss adjuster 
described his footwear as a small amount and didnt mention the brand names of footwear, 
towels or videotapes. Mr M said hed retained all damaged electrical items and sent AXA an 
engineers report. He said AXA knowingly disposed of photos and other evidence about his 
claim to avoid making a full settlement. He said AXA had wrongfully and neglectfully handled 
his claim and failed to indemnify his losses, which he put at around £28,000.
AXA had concerns about Mr Ms claim and sent an investigator to inspect the loss in January 
2019. Mr M said the investigator gave permission to dispose of all electrical items and told 
Mr M he was more than satisfied there was no wrongdoing on his part. Mr M said he said his 
family has suffered harassment and discrimination on the grounds of race and postcode by 
AXA and its agents. He said they feel helpless and have been extremely stressed by AXAs 
handling of the claim, affecting their health, with his son being hospitalised.
AXA rejected Mr Ms accusations about harassment and said its investigator hadnt told him 
he was satisfied about any aspect of the claim or to dispose of any item. AXA said 44 items 
of footwear valued at almost £8,000 were claimed but despite requests Mr M hadnt provided 
the 20 photos he said hed sent to its loss adjusters and they hadnt seen the sack with the 
footwear. AXA said Mr M sent three photos via email and 31 poor quality black and white 
photos that didnt show the make, value or number of footwear claimed or the damage. AXA 
said the policy required Mr M not to dispose of anything without its permission.
AXA said Mr M claimed a similar amount for nine items of outerwear, but the nature of the 
damage was unclear, other than wear and tear. AXA said Mr M claimed over £7,000 of 
computer and electrical goods but these too were disposed of without permission. AXA said 
electronic gadgets have to be specified on the policy. AXA thought Mr Ms claim for eight 
sets of bedding, 36 pillow cases and 18 towels was unusually high for a four-person home 
and the loss hadnt been evidenced. AXA offered Mr M £5,000 in full settlement of his claim. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the offer and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Mr M had disposed 
of the contents that he was claiming for before AXA had the opportunity to inspect the items. 
He said AXA is entitled to validate a claim before making a payment and its offer of £5,000 
was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr M disagreed. He said the investigators decision was based on incorrect, false and 
misleading information. He said all claimed items were sent (sic) during the loss adjusters 
visit in August 2018 and the loss adjuster had taken many photos and gave permission to 
Mr M to dispose of all items. Mr M requested an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent considered the loss of every item claimed by Mr M. However, I have looked closely 
at AXAs handling and decisions about Mr Ms claim to see if it has treated him in 
accordance with the policy and fairly.
I understand the building part of Mr Ms claim has been resolved. His complaint to our 
service concerns the possessions he has claimed for on behalf of his family. Mr M says that 
AXA has unfairly and dishonestly limited his claim when his basement flooded. I have looked 
carefully at Mr Ms and AXAs records and in particular AXAs agents involvement with Mr 
Ms claim.
Mr M said that with the exception of the towels and bed linen all items were present to be 
inspected by AXAs loss adjuster. However, the records dont show that all items claimed 
were available. Outerwear was inspected and the loss adjuster said wear and tear was 
evident but there was no obvious damage from an escape of water though attempts at 
cleaning were evident. These items were hanging up and so the damage appeared to be 
due to dampness. 
AXAs investigator said there was little wrong with the sofa and on his return visit the 
electrical items had been disposed of despite his telling Mr M the items would need to be re-
inspected. Mr M had most of the electrical items inspected himself and water damage had 
been handwritten on to the reports. AXAs investigator said the writer of the report didnt 
respond to his questions. 
The loss adjuster said the only footwear discussed with Mr M was kept in a small cubby hole 
in the basement and said there wasnt enough storage for the footwear claimed. He said he 
was not shown a green sack full of shoes. Mr Ms wife said shed sent photos of the shoes to 
the insurer. She later said she hadnt sent all of the photos as the file was too big, but still 
had the photos and would send them.  
Unfortunately, despite several requests from AXA the photos of the footwear havent been 
sent by Mr M or his wife to AXA. Given that its loss adjuster states that he hasnt seen 
anything like the number of shoes claimed for and they werent available for the investigator 
to see, I can understand why AXA has concerns about the claim.
Mr M sent a statement about his claim in which he said there were no inconsistencies in the 
information hes given. In this he said hed disposed of some shoes before the loss 
adjusters visit. Mr M and his wife said AXAs investigator told them he was completely satisfied about their claim. The investigator said this was not correct. Ive seen several 
requests for information from AXA and its agents to Mr M that demonstrate that at no point 
was it satisfied with his claim and it needed to verify his loss. Mr M refused permission for his 
interview with AXAs investigator to be recorded and so theres no evidence that the 
investigator stated he was satisfied with the claim. 
It is common practice for insurers to verify contents claims, particularly high value claims 
such as Mr Ms. This involves seeing all of the items that are damaged and checking proof of 
damage and ownership. Mr Ms policy with AXA states that he should retain all evidence of a 
claim and must not dispose of anything without getting permission from Us first. I think AXA 
and its agents requests for information were in accordance with the policy and were 
reasonable. 
From what Ive seen I dont think Mr M responded adequately to AXAs requests for 
information in support of his claim and what he has provided isnt sufficient for AXA to have 
validated the extent of his claim. Even without the policy requirement I think it makes sense 
for a policyholder to keep hold of items that are subject of a claim until full liability for that 
claim has been accepted by the insurer, particularly a claim for items in a basement valued 
at around £28,000.
 
I also think it would have helped if AXAs loss adjuster had made a precise record of all of 
the items he had seen at Mr Ms home and their condition as this may have resolved some 
of the issues that emerged. However, even if the loss adjuster had done so he wouldnt have 
seen the linen and shoes that Mr M says hed already disposed of. Having said this, its clear 
that Mr Ms claim was well in excess of that anticipated by the loss adjuster who estimated 
contents of less than £5,000.
 
Mr M says liability for all of his claim was accepted by AXA, but theres no acknowledgement 
of this from Mr Ms or AXAs records. Mr M also made assertions about AXA and its loss 
adjusters staffs agreement to the disposal of items and agreement that theres been no 
wrongdoing on his part. Unfortunately, there isnt any evidence in support of these 
statements and since they run counter to the communications and actions of AXA and its 
agents during the claim I cant base any decisions on them.  
In fact, AXA has made a number of requests for the photos that Mr M and his wife say that 
they provided to its loss adjuster. I havent seen any photos of footwear from the loss 
adjuster and only one with three pairs of shoes from Mr M. AXA requested the host emails 
that Mr M said contained the photos, but these havent been received. I dont think AXA has 
good records of the claim, but I dont think it has deliberately removed information about the 
claim from its records. I think it could have handled the claim better, but I havent seen 
anything to suggest it has caused unreasonable delays in its handling of Mr Ms claim or 
complaint. 
I think Mr M should have done much more to assist AXA in the validation of his claim and I 
think AXAs concerns about it were reasonable. Mr M hasnt provided anything in support of 
his assertion that he and his family have been harassed and discriminated against and I 
havent seen anything to suggest that AXA or its agents have treated Mr M and his family in 
this way.
In the circumstances of the damage suffered by Mr M and the loss adjusters listing and 
estimation of possessions of less than £5,000, I think the offer of £5,000 settlement of the 
claim from AXA is fair and reasonable.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman