DRN-3574155
The complaint
Mr P in unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc decided not to refund him after he was the
victim of scam. He made payments totalling £14,429.34 to scammers for farm machinery
that never arrived.
What happened
Below are my provisional findings on this complaint.
My provisional decision
Mr P thought he was making two payments for farm machinery hed found online. But it
turned out he was scammed. He made two separate transfers of £9,309.25 and £5,120.09 to
an overseas bank account.
Bank of Ireland looked into things but didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said:
-The payments were initially screened by the fraud team but werent deemed
suspicious, due to the nature of the purchase/business and the type of account Mr P
held. As a result of these checks, no follow up call was made with Mr P as the funds
were going to a farm machinery business and Mr Ps account is listed as Agri 
agriculture
-It contacted the recipient bank account the same day the scam claim was raised but
had since received notification that no funds remained in the account.
-As the transactions were authorised by Mr P and there was no manual intervention
from the bank, it cannot be held liable for Mr Ps losses.
During the course of our investigation Mr P has confirmed:
-He found the farm machinery online and the price was good in comparison to others
but wasnt too good to be true. At the time of making the payment the seller had a
website which provided details of various farm machinery for sale. 
-Hed carried out a lot of research for tractors in the UK and Europe and decided to
purchase overseas, as the warmer weather conditions meant less wear and tear on
he machinery. And hed found machinery from Europe was generally a bit cheaper.
-He received an invoice and says he also saw the logbooks for the farm machinery
and it all looked legitimate.
-He was told the shipping would be £1,500 but the seller would cover the cost of this.
The seller said as Mr P had been looking to purchase other items they wanted to
establish a good relationship with him and gain his repeat custom.
-He spoke to his solicitor before making the purchase. He said he told the solicitor the
people on the phone and email seemed genuine but he was aware of scams and
wanted to be 100% sure. He said the solicitor checked the company out and said it
was a legitimate company and did a company check but advised, before sending
the money, Mr P should go to his bank to check the account details. He said this was
a conversation with the solicitor over the phone.
-He went to the bank branch to the check the IBAN number and said the bank
confirmed it was a genuine account  and later hes told us he knew the bank could
only check the account number and not anything else  he thought this was sufficient
to proceed with the payment.
-He was in branch when he made the payment, using his online banking. He said a
bank representative helped him set up the international payee and explained hed
need to make two separate payments as the daily limit was £10,000.
One of our investigators looked into things. He upheld the complaint. In summary he said:
-The payments were unusual and out of character and Bank of Ireland ought to have 
intervened with them.
-The payments flagged the banks systems but the search it did was limited and
insufficient in the circumstances.
-The bank ought to have called Mr P to discuss the payments. And, if it had, Mr P
would have explained what he was doing and this would have caused the bank
concerns. He said this because they were international payments, Mr P hadnt seen
the goods, and the seller was offering to pay the shipping fees all which sounded
unusual and could be a sign this was a scam.
-The bank ought to have warned Mr P that he could be at risk of being scammed. He
said if it had, he thought this would have prevented the scam as Mr P was already
cautious about the payment.
-The investigator recommended that Bank of Ireland refund Mr P the full amount of his losses
 plus interest from the date of the transactions.
Bank of Ireland didnt accept the investigators findings. It said:
-Mr P carried out his own research into the company/seller he thought he was
purchasing the farm machinery from. And, he was aware of scams in the
marketplace and thats why he made the enquiries that he did:
o he had seen the logbooks and they appeared to be genuine; and
o he approached his solicitor for advice
-The bank could not have identified that this was a scam any more than Mr P could have, 
especially given the extensive enquiries Mr P had already made. Its clear Mr P was aware of 
the risk and its not fair to hold the bank responsible for this.
- Theres no evidence to support that the bank offered him any guarantees about the purchase 
and payments he was making.
- The bank could not and would not offer an indemnity that the payment was protected at the 
time he made it.
-It didnt think any intervention by the bank would have stopped Mr P from making the
purchase and at the time as there was no reason to doubt the integrity of the seller.
-The bank cannot stop Mr P from making transactions.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to a different conclusion to the investigator. I dont think Bank of
Ireland is responsible for Mr Ps losses and it doesnt need to refund him. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute the transfers Mr P made were authorised payments even though he
was the victim of a scam. He made the payments himself and under the
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mr P is
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
As such I think Bank of Ireland should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive gone on to think about whether Bank of Ireland ought fairly and reasonably to have
done more here whether it ought to have suspected the payments may have been at risk or
not.
Bank of Irelands actions
Having considered Mr Ps bank statements I can see that there is limited use of the account
in the months leading up to the scam. Generally, the account has been used for low value
transactions and a low balance is maintained on the account and the overdraft used.
However, there are larger credits into the account the few weeks before the scam payments
and large credits the day before and day of the first transaction.
The account balance was healthy  over £9,000 was left in the account after the first
transaction and the account had an additional credit prior to the second transaction leaving
the account balance over £22,000.
And, although after the scam payments, there are also similar large debits on the account for
£10,000 and £8,000 a few days later, for point of sale transactions.
The account is listed as an agricultural account and the details of the scam payments
indicated the purchase was for farm machinery. And, the account was a business account,
which is expected to (on occasion) to accept large credits and make large debits or
payments. It also had sufficient funds to make the payment which on the face of it was linked
to the purchase being made.
Bank of Ireland has said that the transactions flagged on its fraud systems and it carried out
a check before releasing the payments. This appears to have included a check on the type
of account Mr P held and the details of the purchase/payment being made. Bank of Ireland
didnt go on to make any additional checks or speak to Mr P about the payment. Taking all of
the above into account I think this was a proportionate check. And I dont think Bank of
Ireland needed to make further enquiries with Mr P or that it ought to have been concerned
that Mr P might be at risk of financial harm, after completing those initial checks.Would different intervention have made a difference?
But, in any event, I have gone to consider whether different intervention  i.e. a phone call,
from Bank of Ireland would have made a difference. And, having so, I dont think it would
have. Ill explain why.
Ive considered on balance what I think would have most likely happened if Bank of Ireland
had spoken to Mr P before releasing the payment.
-The bank cant check the account holders details and I dont think it would have
promised or assured this with Mr P, even if hed asked.
-The bank would have had access to the same information about the seller as Mr P- it
didnt have the facility here to make different or additional checks.
-The information in the public domain at the time didnt appear to indicate there was
anything suspicious about this seller or the purchase. And Mr P didnt flag or raise
anything suspicious about the seller at the time either.
-I have considered that the seller offered to pay for the shipping costs and that this is
a feature of some scams. But it can also occur with genuine sales and the reason for
the costs being covered here sounded plausible.
-Mr P says the bank checked the IBAN when he enquired with the bank and thats the
extent to which it could have reassured Mr P about the payment.
-I think the bank could have provided Mr P with a warning about goods not received
type scams. But I think Mr P was already of these  hes said the reason he spoke to
his solicitor in the first instance was because he was aware of people being
scammed. So Im not persuaded a warning would have been anything new or
unexpected for Mr P.
-His solicitor had said the purchase and seller looked genuine so Im not sure what
else the bank could have said or done here. He said his solicitor carried out a
company check. Im not sure what he thinks this included or what it did include but
even if the bank had suggested Mr P carry out checks I dont think it could have
specified anything beyond what he had already done or that Mr P would have done
more than he already did.
-Im not persuaded the bank would have been able to expose the scam here any
more than Mr P was able to. The only additional step it might have suggested was that Mr P 
physically see the item he was purchasing. But hes said he was looking to purchase farm 
machinery from Europe as this impacted the condition. So, I think, in any event, Mr P wasnt 
likely to view the piece of machinery even if he bought from a genuine seller in Europe.
So overall I dont think the bank could or would have been able to expose the scam here. I
dont think a warning would have made a difference to Mr Ps decision process here given
what he already knew and the research hed conducted and reassurances hed already
received. So, whilst Im sorry to hear that hes been the victim of a scam I dont think it would
be fair and reasonable to hold Bank of Ireland responsible for his losses.
Mr P has also said that hes unhappy that the international account shouldnt have been
opened in the first instance. Thats not something we can consider as part of this complaint
or something Mr P an bring a complaint about to our service.
My provisional decision
Im not currently minded to uphold this complaint.Responses to my provisional decision
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc responded to say it had nothing further to add. Mr P responded to 
say he didnt accept my findings. Mr P emailed and called our service and I have reviewed 
the content of both, before reaching my final decision on this complaint. In summary 
disagrees with my findings because:
- He thinks I have taken Bank of Irelands side and havent considered it from his 
perspective and this seems unfair.
- He asked the bank teller to check the IBAN and to let him know that it wasnt a scam. 
- If he thought it was a scam or the teller had said it didnt sound right would have 
prevented the scam
- The bank should have done further checks on the account and when the IBAN was 
checked it should have been red flagged.
- It wasnt fair for me to conclude that he couldnt have been talked out of making the 
payments. I couldnt know what he would have done. 
- The banks have insurance for this but dont think its their fault
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so I have carefully considered Mr Ps additional points and concerns but Im not 
persuaded that I need to change my findings. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate that Mr P is unhappy with the outcome and feels strongly that Bank of Ireland is 
responsible for his losses here. Im sorry to hear that he feels my decision is unfair. I have 
carefully considered his evidence alongside Bank of Irelands evidence when reaching my 
decision. But I appreciate that he will be disappointed with the outcome nonetheless.
Its my role, when deciding this case, to weigh up and consider all the evidence from both 
parties, as well as taking into account the relevant legislation and industry guidance. This is 
the basis for deciding if Bank of Ireland should refund Mr P.
As I set out in my provisional decision there are obligations on the bank to be on the look out 
for and to protect customers from scams. But banks cant prevent every scam and arent 
responsible to refund every customer when they have been the victim of a scam. So, I have 
carefully considered the individual facts and events here to decide whether it is fair and 
reasonable to say Bank of Ireland should refund Mr P for his losses in these particular 
circumstances. 
With the benefit of hindsight we now know that Mr P was scammed. But I have to make my 
decision based on what all parties knew at the time Mr P made the payments. And, as Ive 
already set out, I dont think the bank could have exposed that this was a scam, any more 
than Mr P was able to, and Ive explained all the reasons for that in the provisional decision. I 
dont propose to repeat those here.
In response to Mr Ps comments that I dont know if he could have been talked out of making 
the payments, again I have to base my findings on what I think would have most likely happened at the time. And I dont think Bank of Ireland would or ought reasonably to have 
known this was a scam, so I dont think it could have done or said anything to have 
prevented Mr Ps losses.
Mr P feels that the bank could have done more checks on the account and the merchant but 
as Ive said my provisional decision, I dont agree that it could. 
Mr P has my sympathies. Hes paid a substantial amount of money for an item that hasnt 
materialised. And I understand the whole experience will have been upsetting. But overall, 
for reasons explained I cannot fairly or reasonably hold Bank of Ireland responsible for Mr 
Ps loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman