DRN-4322177
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Miss A used to hold with Bank of Scotland PLC trading 
as Birmingham Midshires (BM). 
Following an ombudsmans jurisdiction dated 12 July 2023, this decision is limited to 
considering the merits of the following complaint point: 
Before a court hearing took place Miss A says BM had promised to call her back, but failed 
to do so. Miss A also said that BM had promised to call her about the sale of the property, 
but did not do so.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. 
Furthermore, an ombudsman has already decided that most of Miss As complaints do not 
fall within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. I therefore cannot comment 
on those matters.
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Miss A being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the sake of completeness, I am required to consider jurisdiction at every stage of the 
complaint. Ive read the ombudsmans jurisdiction dated 12 July 2023 and I agree with the 
conclusions reached in that decision about which parts of the complaint we are able to 
consider.
Miss As mortgage with BM was in arrears and BM had begun legal action to take 
possession of the property, with a hearing due to take place on 23 November 2016. Miss A 
says that in 2016 her case manager at BM had promised to call her after she told him that 
the Department for Work & Pensions (DWP) had reinstated her payments towards the 
mortgage interest, but that he didnt call her. Miss A also says that the case manager (who I 
will refer to as MB) promised to call her about the sale of the property, but failed to do so.
In a letter dated 3 November 2016 BM explained that MB had been through multiple income 
and expenditure assessments with Miss A over the phone. BM explained that the arrears 
were around £17,500 and that in order to prevent the eviction from going ahead, Miss A 
would need to bring the account up to date.
In addition, the contact notes from 2016 shows that MB called Miss A the day before the 
eviction, on 23 November 2016. The call note says:
1 day check call made to customer to advise re situation, customer stated that has 
provided all the evidence requested and has no more information to send. explained 
that the information provided advises of ESA payments not DWP mortgage 
payments. Advised ILA and advised Shelter customer refused to take this information 
down. Cust kept saying I wasnt the judge and kept repeating that not allowing to pay. 
Call terminated with prior warning to customer as customer kept repeating same 
things. (sic)
Im satisfied, therefore, that BM did call Miss A before the eviction.
But even if, as Miss A says, MB was meant to call her again after hed spoken to her on 
23 November 2016 (and there is no evidence of this), I cant see that she has been in any 
way put at a disadvantage. I note Miss A spoke to BM on 24 November 2016, the day of the 
eviction, to say that she was unaware it was going to happen. But I think thats unlikely, 
given that Miss A had made an application to the court the day before to stop the eviction,  
and the court dismissed the application. 
I therefore do not uphold this part of the complaint.
Miss A also says that MB had promised to call her before the property was sold. I think that 
is unlikely, because once the property was taken into possession, BMs property in 
possession and asset management team took over, and MB had no further involvement in 
the matter.
I therefore do not uphold this part of the complaint.
I fully appreciate that losing the property was very upsetting for Miss A, and I have no doubt 
this was a very stressful experience for her. But Im unable to find BM has done anything 
wrong in relation to Miss As complaints that she wasnt called back by BM.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman