DRN-2546476
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W has complained about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has 
dealt with a claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
  
What happened
Despite several requests, Shawbrook hasnt provided our Service with any evidence relating 
to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. So, its been necessary for me to base my understanding of 
what happened upon their recollections and what I know about similar complaints to this.
In September 2016 Mr and Mrs W entered into an agreement with a company called 
SolarKing UK for the supply and installation of a solar panel system.  Mr W says that initially 
the salesperson pressed for a cash payment for the system  but that wasnt possible as Mr 
and Mrs W were already working with a charity to help manage and reduce their debt.
Mr W says the salesperson assured them that it was appropriate to pay for the solar panel 
system using a fixed term loan  as the financial benefits itd would generate would cover the 
cost of the loan payments.  So, the salesperson arranged the loan with Shawbrook and the 
system was installed.
The solar panels have never performed as Mr W says they were told, and the benefits have 
never covered the cost of the loan  meaning that they had to find the funds each month to 
maintain it.
Under s.75 a finance provider is liable to the same extent as the supplier of goods or 
services for a breach of contract or misrepresentation.  So, Mr and Mrs W made a claim to 
Shawbrook and when they didnt get a satisfactory response, they referred his complaint to 
our Service.
One of our investigators looked into things and requested evidence from Shawbrook.  As no 
response was received, she issued an assessment based upon what information she did 
have.
In summary, the investigator concluded it was likely the benefits of the solar panel system 
had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs W  and said that given their personal 
circumstances she didnt think they would have entered the agreement otherwise.  To put 
things right she suggested it would disproportionate to ask Shawbrook to arrange for the 
removal of the solar panels. Instead, she said it should compensate Mr and Mrs W to put 
them in the position they would be in if the system was self-funding and covered the loan 
costs.
Mr and Mrs W accepted the investigators view.
Shawbrook didnt reply initially, but more recently Shawbrook did respond.  It said the 
business that supplied the panels (SolarKing UK) is still trading and it reserved the right to 
provide evidence and respond if the supplier provided it.  But Shawbrook did ask for the 
complaint to be passed for an ombudsman to review.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has now been passed to me to review 
everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator.
For there to be a valid claim under s.75, an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
must exist.  Based upon what information is available, Im satisfied that exists here. The key 
issue for me to decide is whether Shawbrook has acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with 
Mr and Mrs Ws s.75 claim.  
Its been difficult for me to review Mr and Mrs Ws complaint without any information 
provided by Shawbrook  but its important that they arent disadvantaged by the fact 
Shawbrook hasnt fully responded.
Im aware that at the time Mr and Mrs W purchased the solar panels, it was a common sales 
tactic to present a solar panel system as self-funding over a loan term. This supports the 
recollections of Mr W.  But Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs W were in a difficult financial 
situation at the time and consider it unlikely they would have accepted the additional monthly 
cost of solar panel system unless they believed it wouldnt cost them anything.
So overall, I consider it fair and reasonable to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  as on 
balance Im satisfied the benefits of the system were misrepresented to them.
  
Putting things right
Given that Mr and Mrs W have had the solar panel system installed for some time, and they 
clearly wanted it on the basis it would pay for itself, I dont think it would be proportionate to 
remove the panels.  Instead, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to ask Shawbrook to 
compensate Mr and Mrs W for the difference between what the system will cost over the 
loan term, and the benefits it will generate over the same period.
So, to achieve this, Shawbrook should estimate the total benefits Mr and Mrs W are likely to 
receive from the panels over the term of his loan (using the actual benefits generated to 
date).  It should then restructure the loan so that Mr and Mrs W will not pay more for the 
solar panels than the estimated benefits calculated.
If, once the calculation is completed, Mr and Mrs W have made an overpayment in 
maintaining the loan to date, they should be given the option to be paid a refund of that 
overpayment, or to offset it against the loan.  Shawbrook should pay 8% simple interest per 
annum on any overpayment from the dates the respective amounts were paid.
I also agree with the investigator that it is appropriate for Shawbrook to pay Mr and Mrs W 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience theyve experienced for the time taken and 
challenges theyve faced in getting Shawbrook to address their concerns.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited 
 and to put things right it should pay the compensation set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman