DRN-3242184
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is about the administration of a further advance they applied for on 
their Nationwide Building Society mortgage.
What happened
In 2004 Mr and Mrs L arranged a mortgage with Nationwide to buy a residential property to 
live in.
 
In August 2020 Mr and Mrs L wanted to move home. They have explained that they were 
aware that the sale of their existing home and the purchase of the new one was unlikely to 
be simultaneous  the purchase would happen before the sale. In order to facilitate the 
purchase, they decided to release £100,000 equity from their existing home, via their 
Nationwide mortgage. As the existing mortgage was on a variable rate of interest, they also 
decided to have a fixed interest rate product added to the entire amount of the mortgage 
borrowing. The start of the fixed rate was delayed until the beginning of October 2020, so 
that if the further advance application was refused and Mr and Mrs L needed to change their 
plans, the fixed rate could be cancelled so they didnt incur an ERC.
At the end of August 2020 Mr and Mrs L were told the further advance application had been 
accepted. Unfortunately, that notification didnt include the information that the acceptance 
was subject to a satisfactory valuation being received. Mr and Mrs L told us that they werent 
aware, when they made their application, that a valuation would be needed as the loan-to-
value was very low. 
Mr and Mrs L had already exchanged contracts for the purchase of their new property by the 
time they were told the further advance had been approved at the end of August. They 
confirmed at that time they were hoping to complete on the purchase around four weeks 
later. They also confirmed that the valuation of their existing property had been done the 
week before, so the sale was progressing.
The valuation for Mr and Mrs Ls purchase had been commissioned by Nationwide, but at 
the time valuers were very busy because of the stamp duty holiday. The valuation was 
received at the end of September and the further advance was approved. However, there 
was a system problem at Nationwide, and this meant that the mortgage offer for the further 
advance wasnt issued until 13 October 2020.
Mr and Mrs L completed on their purchase the following day. They have explained that in 
order to facilitate the purchase they sold a second property they owned and because they 
needed the sale process quickly, they auctioned the property, incurring fees and legal costs. 
As Mr and Mrs L no longer needed the additional borrowing on their existing property to be 
able to purchase their new home, they didnt accept the further advance offer. 
Nine days later Mr and Mrs Ls existing property sale completed, and the mortgage was paid 
off. As they didnt at that time have a Nationwide mortgage to port the interest rate product 
to, they were charged an ERC. This was later refunded when they took out a re-mortgage on 
the new property and ported the interest rate product to the re-mortgage.
Mr and Mrs L complained about what they were told about the process by Nationwide and 
the time it took for their application to be processed. They said that had Nationwide not 
delayed the further application they wouldnt have needed to sell their other property at 
auction and wouldnt incurred the associated costs and fees. In addition, they didnt believe 
they would have needed to appoint solicitors but for Nationwides delay, and had incurred 
unnecessary fees due to that too.
Nationwide accepted there had been a delay in processing the further advance application, 
for which it paid Mr and Mrs L £200 as way of an apology. However, it didnt consider it was 
responsible for any other losses theyd suffered, as Mr and Mrs L had already exchanged 
contracts on their new house before it had accepted the further advance application or 
confirmed it would be accepted. Mr and Mrs L taking that actin would always have involved 
the risk that timings wouldnt work perfectly. Nationwide also confirmed that if a non-
simultaneous port was to be done, Mr and Mrs L would always have had to appoint 
solicitors, so the legal costs theyd incurred would always have been incurred. 
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with Nationwides response and referred their complaint to this 
service. They asked that Nationwide reimburse them for the auction costs and additional 
legal fees they uncured.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They highlighted that theyd 
suffered a great deal of stress and felt they were due more compensation. Our investigator 
considered what Mr and Mrs L said, but didnt change her conclusions. They asked that the 
complaint be moved to the next stage of our process. They also asked the investigator to 
ensure that I understood the property they had needed to sell at auction was not their main 
residence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L had committed to purchase their new home before Nationwide confirmed that 
it would lend them the money they needed to do so. This was a risk, as Nationwide might not 
have agreed to the lending or, as happened, the money they needed might not have come 
through in time. While Mr and Mrs L may have made assumptions that it would all work out, 
it was never guaranteed to. There was always the possibility they would have needed to find 
the additional £100,000 they needed for the purchase from elsewhere. It was Mr and Mrs Ls 
decision to move forward with their purchase in these circumstances. 
Our investigator pointed out that Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs L timescales for an offer 
being made and the money they wanted advanced. However, the email of 28 August 2020 
may well have led them to believe the application was further through the process than it 
was. The mistake at this point didnt delay the progress of the application, if theyd been told 
the acceptance was subject to the valuation, Nationwide would still have only been able to 
progress the application to offer at the beginning of October 2020 and after it did its final 
checks. It was during these checks that the system error was identified. This caused around a week 
of delay, but Im not persuaded that this caused Mr and Mrs L to decide to auction their other 
property. While auctioning a property means that the sale is agreed on the day, there is still 
a 28-day window for the buyer to pay for the property. So it would seem likely that the 
decision to auction the property happened before the system issues caused any problems in 
the process. 
I dont consider that it would be reasonable to find Nationwide responsible for the auction 
and legal costs Mr and Mrs L incurred because they decided to progress their purchase 
before having an offer for the borrowing they needed in place. 
That said, the poor communication would have raised Mr and Mrs Ls expectations and it is 
appropriate for them to receive some compensation for that. I note that Mr and Mrs L have 
said that the £200 they were offered was insufficient to compensate them for all the stress 
they were put through. When considering compensation for non-financial losses we only 
consider the effect of the error made by the financial business. 
In this case, that would be any added stress caused by Nationwides poor communication, 
not that associated with the house move or the decision to move forward before having an 
offer for the money needed. I am satisfied the £200 Nationwide offered is sufficient in this 
regard. If Mr and Mrs L havent received the payment and they now want to accept it, they 
should contact Nationwide directly.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject my decision 
before 2 March 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman