DRN-4337633
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt do more to help stop him losing money to 
gambling via payments made from his current account.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr S complained to this service that the bank has known for many years that he had a 
gambling addiction. But it didnt do anything to help with this and it loaned him £15,000 in 
April 2022, which he then gambled away. 
Santander said Mr S hadnt told it about his addiction until 2022 and the decision to grant 
Mr Ss request for a home improvement loan was agreed after undertaking appropriate 
affordability checks.
Mr Ss concerns about the mis-sold loan were dealt with under a separate complaint. 
The adjudicator who looked into Mr Ss concerns about the support hed received for his 
gambling addiction didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt 
think the bank had treated Mr S unfairly. Mr S disagreed, so the complaint has come to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, Ive 
reached the same outcome as the adjudicator, for much the same reasons. I note, in 
particular that:
As above, Mr Ss complaint about the banks decision to give him a loan in April 2022 
has been considered separately. But, when making my decision on this complaint, Ive 
taken into account what he said and provided on the loan complaint about his gambling 
addiction and related interactions with the bank.
Santander has shared Mr Ss account activity from January 2022 to July 2023 and I can 
see he spent a lot of money on gambling in that time. Im also willing to accept his 
gambling and addiction might go back further than that. But hes provided no evidence to 
support his assertion that he complained to, or sought help from, Santander about this 
prior to 2022. And the bank has shared its notes and related correspondence about all 
the complaints hes made going back to 2017. None of the complaints made prior to 
2022 refer in any way to Mr Ss gambling or his addiction. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (the financial services industry regulator) has published 
a number of guidance notes, occasional and consultation papers about vulnerable 
customers and the need to treat them fairly. And its arguable that the addiction Mr S 
describes made him vulnerable. But there are no industry-agreed definitions for 
problematic or harmful gambling and no specific rules in place which say what a bank 
must do, either when it realises a consumer might have a gambling addiction or when 
the consumer tells them this specifically. Furthermore, most banks dont manually 
monitor accounts or have specific mechanisms to look for gambling activity beyond 
identifying debit card payments made to gambling merchants using standardised 
Merchant Category Codes (MCCs). So, a bank is only likely to become aware of a 
potential gambling problem if the consumer has told them about it, or if the account 
activity has flagged up for some other reason. That could be because the pattern of 
spending had triggered fraud detection algorithms. Or there are signs of financial 
difficulty on the account, such as regular use of an unplanned overdraft, returned 
direct debits, being over a credit limit or missing expected repayments. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that any of Mr Ss payments to gambling merchants triggered 
Santanders fraud detection systems. And the account activity Ive seen shows that 
Mr S maintained a very healthy credit balance in his account. 
Mr S suggests his outgoings (including gambling) exceed his income and he wants 
Santander to refund all of the money he lost to gambling. But I note there have been 
many occasions where money has been credited back from the same gambling 
merchants to which he previously made payments. And Mr S has also sent large sums of 
money out of his account with Santander to other accounts. This included, in mid-April 
2022  soon after he took the £15,000 loan from Santander  a £72,000 payment to a 
Building Society. And, cross-referencing this with the information hes provided from his 
credit file suggest this money was used to repay his mortgage early. I also note from Mr 
Ss credit file that although hes held a number of loans and credit cards over the years 
these have all been well-serviced and, often, repaid early. And, although Ive only seen 
Mr Ss specific account activity going back to January 2022, his credit file record for the 
current account goes back to April 2019 and suggests Mr S hasnt had to use his £3,400 
overdraft limit in that time. 
Santander is expected to process payments and withdrawals that Mr S authorises it to 
make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and 
conditions of his account. And Mr S is, ultimately entitled, to spend his money as he sees 
fit. As noted above, from the evidence Ive seen, it looks like all the money that Mr S 
spent from his Santander account on gambling was his own. And, overall, given the way 
Mr S was operating the account, I dont think the bank ought to have proactively 
identified that he might need additional support.
Mr S says the bank should have told him sooner that he could put a block on debit card 
transactions made to identifiable gambling merchants. But, given what Ive already said 
about the banks awareness of Mr Ss situation, I cant agree with him about this. Hes 
also unhappy with the way the block has worked since he has been aware of it as its 
only fairly recently that Santander has introduced a 48-hour time delay after the block is 
turned off to give the consumer time to reflect on their decision. But, as Ive already said, 
there is no rule or regulation that says when or how these blocks should be made 
available. This is something that a lot of banks have been introducing over the past few 
years and I consider that to be a positive step, but one which still has limitations. For 
example, if a gambling merchant chooses not to use the correct MCC then the payment 
will not be identified and blocked. And, of course, there are also other ways that 
consumers can gamble using less direct payment routes such as sending money to e-
money institutions, or payment gateways, before sending it on to a gambling website. 
And I cannot rule out the possibility that Mr S might have employed this sort of tactic 
even if the bank had stepped in at some point. I say this, not as a criticism, but simply to acknowledge that this type of addiction will often drive individuals to behave in ways that 
end up being harmful to themselves. 
I appreciate Mr S likely feels remorseful about the amount of money hes spent on 
gambling. But hes continued to spend money in that way even now he knows how to 
block debit card payments and despite the advice and offers of support Santander gave 
in its 11 May 2022 final response letter, which was sent after Mr S told the bank he had a 
gambling addiction in early 2022. At that point Mr S suggested he might get a family 
member to help him manage his money, but the account activity since then suggest that 
little has changed.
With all of the above in mind, I cant fairly instruct Santander to refund any of the money 
Mr S has spent on gambling or make any other award of compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman