DRN-4072081
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) who declined her claim and poor 
service, under her commercial insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a named storm Mrs W contacted Ageas and made a claim, as the gable end and 
the front elevation of her property was damaged. A few days later Mrs W contacted Ageas 
again, for an update, to be told that there was no record of her claim. This went on for a few 
days until Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to assess the damage.  
Whilst Mrs W was waiting for the loss adjusters assessment of the damage, she maintained 
contact with Ageas, as she was concerned about the state of the property and that it wasnt 
watertight.  Ageas attempted to get a contractor to carry out a temporary repair. But there 
was a delay before the contractor could come and provide a quote for the repair. So, Mrs W 
asked Ageas if she could use a contractor that she had found to carry out the repairs. Ageas 
agreed to this and paid for the temporary repairs. 
Once the building was structurally safe, Ageas instructed another surveyor to attend to carry 
out a further inspection. Mrs W was present at that inspection and was advised by the 
surveyor that it was unlikely that Ageas would pay for any storm related damage as there 
was evidence of wear and tear externally, which wasnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy.  
He also said that as Mrs W had accidental damage cover, the internal damage (apart from 
the ceiling, as it said that Mrs W advised them that the ceiling had fallen down before the 
storm) would be covered. Ageas made a settlement payment for the internal damage only 
under the accidental damage cover of Mrs Ws policy. Mrs W was unhappy about this 
outcome and raised a complaint. 
In its final response, Ageas said that although there were storm conditions present, the main 
cause of the damage was wear and tear. It relied upon its expert reports and that the policy 
didnt provide cover for wear and tear. It said that it had acted in accordance with the policy 
terms and conditions. And although Mrs W was unhappy with her claim having been 
declined, it felt it was the right decision. Mrs W was given her referral rights and referred a 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should partially be upheld. 
He said that there was evidence of wear and tear which contributed to the external damage 
and there was no cover for this. He also said that the cost of the damage ceiling should be 
met by Ageas, as the ceiling came down as a result of the storm. 
Both Ageas and Mrs W did not agree with the view. Ageas maintained that Mrs W had told 
both the surveyor and loss adjuster that the ceiling had already fallen down before the storm, 
so this was evidence that this damage wasnt as a result of the storm. 
Mrs W didnt agree that the external damage wasnt caused by the storm and instructed an 
independent structural engineer to assess the property. That engineer found that there was 
no evidence of wear and tear and that the property appeared to be in good condition prior to 
the storm. He said that the notably high winds of the storm were the cause of the damage to 
the property. 
So, both parties asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 1 March 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 29 
March 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint. I hope my provisional findings explain 
why I think this is fair.
The main issue of this complaint is whether Ageas fairly declined the claim under the policy 
exclusion of wear and tear. 
Our approach when assessing complaints where storms are said to be the cause of the 
damage, is that we take into consideration three questions, when determining whether an 
event can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline 
a claim. 
Both parties accept that there were storm conditions, namely strong winds, at the time of the 
event. So, the first answer to the first question is yes. And this leads to question two, is the 
damage claimed, consistent with damage a storm typically causes. 
Ageas noted that the damage caused was the gable end which had collapsed, with the cable 
ties having corroded and snapped. It also said that Mrs W had told them that the internal 
ceiling had collapsed pre-loss. 
Mrs W said that the gable end was damaged, and an internal ceiling had also collapsed 
because of the storm. She did not accept that she had told Ageas that the ceiling had 
collapsed prior to the storm. Mrs W obtained a report from a chartered building surveyor, 
who has 35 years experience within the field, 20 of which as a chartered surveyor and 10 of 
which as an independent surveyor. The report was sent to Ageas for its comments. Mrs Ws expert concluded that the damage to the gable wall, was consistent with storm 
damage. And the fact that the position of the house faced north, wouldve taken the brunt of 
the strong winds. The report also said that the internal ceiling damage was caused by the 
storm and was reasonably considered as a direct result of falling masonry.  
Finally, the expert also said: I would not consider the weathering/deterioration noted to the 
gable wall brickwork and pointing as likely to have significantly affected its structural 
integrity, and with pre-existing defects such as deteriorated cavity wall ties not apparent.
Ageas did not comment on Mr Ws experts opinion and in the absence of any other 
evidence that refutes the conclusions reached by Mrs Ws expert, I am persuaded by his 
opinion that the damage caused both internally and externally were due to the storm and not 
due to wear and tear. So, the answer to question two is yes. 
Consequently, answering question three, I think that the main cause of damage to the 
property was a storm. And I think Ageas was unreasonable to have declined Mrs Ws claim. 
So, I intend to ask it to put matters right as I direct below. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W had nothing further to add to my provisional decision. Ageas accepted my provisional 
decision. 
As both parties have no further comments, the recommendations in my provisional decision 
will now be the same, in my final decision, as outlined below. 
Putting things right
I direct Ageas to put matters right as below.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
To put matters right, Ageas Insurance Limited to pay:
Mrs Ws costs incurred for both the internal and external damage caused by the storm, on 
production of an invoice. 
If the works have not yet been carried out, Ageas to carry out the repair works or make a 
cash settlement to Mrs W.
To reimburse Mrs Ws experts invoice of £325
Compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mrs W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest at 
8% a year simple on the above amounts, from the date Mrs W paid for the repairs to the 
date of settlement to reflect that she has been deprived of these funds.
If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs W a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman