DRN-4369537
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that The Funding Corporation (1) Limited failed to remove a charge 
over their property after theyd paid off a second charge mortgage (secured loan). This 
meant that Mr and Mrs G were unable to re-finance their first charge mortgage and lost out 
on a better interest rate. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a secured loan with The Funding Corporation in around 2005, paying 
it off in 2020. They had and continue to have a first charge mortgage secured over the same 
property.
In late 2022 Mr and Mrs G decided to shop around for a new rate of interest. They 
discovered that The Funding Corporation had not removed its charge when they paid their 
loan off in 2020  and the continued existence of the charge was preventing them 
re-financing their first charge mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs G contacted The Funding Corporation. It agreed to remove the charge, but that 
didnt happen in time for Mr and Mrs G to complete their re-mortgage. So they complained 
that theyd lost out on the interest rate theyd applied for and would end up paying more.
The Funding Corporation said it had first been contacted by Mr and Mrs G about the 
outstanding charge on 15 November 2022. It confirmed their loan had been repaid in full and 
told them it would arrange for its solicitors to remove the charge. But it couldnt confirm how 
long that process would take.
Mr and Mrs G planned to complete their new mortgage on 17 November 2022. But this 
wasnt possible. In the meantime, they continued on their existing lenders standard variable 
rate, which increased regularly as the Bank of England base rate increased  meaning 
Mr and Mrs G were paying more each month. 
Their new lender agreed to extend the mortgage offer until May 2023. The charge was finally 
removed in April 2023 and Mr and Mrs G were able to complete their re-mortgage.
Our investigator said that The Funding Corporation should refund the additional amounts 
Mr and Mrs G had to pay to their previous lender because of the delay in completing on their 
new mortgage. And it should pay them £750 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that The Funding Corporation is at fault here. It accepts that the charge should 
have been removed in 2020 when the loan was paid off. It was aware that it hadnt been, 
and the problems that was causing Mr and Mrs G, in November 2022. But it didnt actually 
remove the charge until April 2023.
Weve asked The Funding Corporation why the charge wasnt removed in 2020. And weve 
asked why it took from November 2022 to April 2023 to remove it. It hasnt answered that or 
given any explanation.
I see no good reason for the delay. The charge should have been removed in 2020. And it 
should have been removed in November 2022 when the failure to do so first came to light. 
The Funding Corporations failure to remove the charge caused Mr and Mrs G loss, because 
it delayed their re-mortgage and meant that had to pay more interest to their previous lender. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied The Funding Corporation should pay Mr and Mrs G the difference between what 
they had to pay to their old lender, and what they ought to have paid to their new lender. It 
should add simple annual interest of 8% to each refund amount running from the date of 
each payment to the date of refund.
Payment to old 
lenderPayment to new 
lenderDifference to be 
refundedDate payment 
made / date 8% 
interest 
calculation 
should start
£895.15 £697.48 £197.67 1 December 
2022
£976.00 £697.48 £278.52 5 January 2023
£975.06 £697.48 £277.58 1 February 2023
£1,050.32 £697.48 £352.84 4 March 2023
£1,093.71 £697.48 £396.23 31 March 2023
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs G would have been able to obtain a lower 
interest rate than the one they took with the new lender. The charge only came to light as 
part of the legal work to process their new mortgage, after the new lender had made an 
offer. 
The existence of the charge wouldnt have prevented Mr and Mrs G from applying for and 
being offered a new mortgage  it would only prevent a new mortgage offer from completing. 
Mr and Mrs G have given us copies of their credit files and Ive not seen anything 
inappropriate that The Funding Corporation has placed on their credit files, so I dont think 
there is further compensation due for that. A charge over a property doesnt appear on a 
credit file, and The Funding Corporation correctly reported on their credit files that the loan 
was paid off in 2020.
However, I do think The Funding Corporation should compensate Mr and Mrs G for the 
inconvenience and the upset it caused. Their new mortgage was delayed for several 
months, with Mr and Mrs G having to do much chasing and getting no clear explanation or 
timescale from The Funding Corporation. They were having to find increasing amounts to 
pay their old lender because of interest rate rises. And they were very worried that their new 
mortgage offer would expire and any new application would be at a higher rate, and more 
expensive, than the one they might lose. All of that caused them substantial worry and upset over several months and in the circumstances I agree £750 is fair compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct The Funding Corporation (1) 
Limited to:
Refund the additional mortgage payments as Ive set out in the table above, adding 
simple annual interest of 8% from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
refund. The Funding Corporation (1) Limited may deduct income tax from the 8% 
interest element of my award, as required by HMRC, but should tell Mr and Mrs G 
what it has deducted so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if theyre entitled to do 
so.
Pay Mr and Mrs G £750 compensation. If payment is not made within 28 days of the 
date we tell The Funding Corporation (1) Limited that Mr and Mrs G have accepted 
this decision  if they do  it should add simple annual interest of 8% running from 
the date of acceptance to date of payment. Again, it may deduct income tax from the 
8% interest element of my award, if applicable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman