DRN-3516813
The complaint
Miss R complains about National Savings and Investments (NSI) and their failure to locate 
and transfer funds from an old premium bond into a newer account.
What happened
In February 2021, Miss R contacted NSI after she discovered an old premium bond holders 
card relating to a premium bond that was taken out more than 50 years ago. Miss R asked 
that NSI find this bond and the funds contained within and transfer it to a newer account that 
she could manage online.
But NSI were unable to locate the account. And so, they thought it was most likely that the 
bond had been paid out previously. So, they explained they wouldnt be able to transfer any 
funds from the old premium bond into a newer account. Miss R was unhappy about this, so 
she raised a complaint.
Miss R explained the bond has not been paid out to her previously. So, she didnt think NSI 
were fair to suggest this, or refuse to pay her the value of the bond. She thought if the bond 
had been paid out, it had been paid out to someone other than herself and so, she had been 
the victim of fraud. So, she thought NSI should continue to transfer the value of her old bond 
to a newer account as shed requested. Miss R was also unhappy with the service NSI had 
provided, including the length of time the issue had remained outstanding and the conflicting 
information shed been provided by NSI.
NSI responded and upheld Miss Rs complaint. They explained they didnt keep records for 
accounts for longer than six years. So, they were unable to locate Miss Rs account on their 
system. But they explained all of their active accounts were migrated onto their newest 
system in 2004 and as Miss Rs old premium bond account wasnt able to be found on this, 
they thought it was most likely the bond had been paid out before this time. So, they didnt 
think they were unfair not to transfer the bond funds onto Miss Rs newer account. But they 
recognised theyd provided Miss R with misinformation on multiple occasions and that their 
service had fallen below the standards theyd expect. So, they paid Miss R a total of £100 to 
recognise this. Miss R remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought it was most 
likely, based on the evidence available to them, that the premium bond had been paid out 
before April 2004. So, they didnt think NSI acted unfairly when not being able to locate the 
account or transfer any funds into a newer account. They also thought the £100 NSI paid 
Miss R was a fair amount to recognise the upset and confusion she wouldve been caused 
when she received conflicting information. So, they didnt think NSI needed to do anything 
more.
Miss R didnt agree. And she provided extensive comments explaining why this was, all of 
which have been noted and considered. But in summary, Miss R didnt think NSI were able 
to guarantee the funds contained within the bond were paid to her. And she maintained if the 
account couldnt be located, then she felt it was clear she had been the victim of fraud which 
she didnt think was fair to hold her responsible for. Miss R also though the misinformation 
provided by NSI should impact the legitimacy of their claims that the account had been paid 
before 2004 and she wanted this to be given more serious thought and consideration. As 
Miss R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss R. I appreciate Miss R 
has very strong feelings regarding the situation and I dont dispute Miss Rs testimony that 
she has no recollection of cashing out the bond. So, I can understand why Miss R would be 
left feeling upset and frustrated when NSI informed her they had no record of her account 
and explained their belief that the premium bond had been paid before April 2004. I can also 
understand why Miss R would feel as though shes been a victim of fraud due to this.
I can also appreciate how NSIs service failures, which they have already admitted, would 
make an already upsetting situation for Miss R worse. And why these failures would lead 
Miss R to question the information shes been given by NSI, due to a breakdown in her 
relationship with them.
But for me to say NSI should pay Miss R what she believes to be the value of the bond, Id 
need to be satisfied that NSI have failed to make reasonable attempts to locate the account. 
And that this has meant Miss R has been prevented access to funds that she should be 
entitled to. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached by decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I recognise that throughout our services process, 
and in particular after our investigators view, Miss R has expressed her belief that shes 
been the victim of fraud. And that she wants to be provided with evidence and assurances 
that NSI have considered this. But fraud is a criminal activity. So, our service is unable to 
comment on, or investigate, any allegations of fraud either involving or against a business 
such as NSI. So, Im unable to answer Miss Rs specific questions or comments regarding 
this. Nor am I able to speculate on whether I think Miss R may have been a victim of this. If 
Miss R wishes to pursue these allegations further, she will need to speak to the relevant 
authorities.
Instead, my decision focuses on NSIs inability to locate Miss Rs account and the 
assumption the bond was paid out previously and whether I think NSI have acted fairly in 
relation to this.
Im aware Miss R contacted NSI regarding the old premium bond after finding its associated 
holders card. And Im aware it had been several years since this card had been seen or 
used and the only information available was the date of the bonds inception, which was in 
the 1950s. So, I think its reasonable for me to assume there hadnt been any activity on the 
account for several years.
Businesses such as NSI are obligated to follow GDPR guidelines surrounding data 
protection and in particular, the type of data they store and for how long. Part of these guidelines explain businesses such as NSI must ensure they keep records for no longer than 
necessary. So, NSI have explained they only retain records of transactions, such as the 
cashing out of a premium bond, for six years after the end of the relationship with the 
customer. I think this is reasonable.
And NSI have also explained if Miss Rs premium bond remained active, with an outstanding 
balance, this wouldve been migrated onto their online system in April 2004. And NSI have 
provided me with screenshots that show they searched their internal systems using all three 
of Miss Rs addresses they were provided. And none of these found the account Miss R is 
complaining about. 
I can see they also sent Miss R a tracing form to search their systems again, as well as 
speaking to their technical team to see if any further information could be found. And no 
open account was able to be sourced. Based on this information, NSI have said they think 
its most likely that Miss Rs bond was paid out before April 2004, although they cant say 
when. 
So, Ive thought about whether I think this was a fair assumption. And I think it was. Im 
satisfied NSI took reasonable steps to try and locate the premium bond account in question. 
And when this account couldnt be located on their most recent system, where all open 
accounts were migrated in 2004, I think NSI were reasonable to assume this meant at the 
point of migration, Miss Rs account was closed. And so, I think NSI were fair to say this 
meant the account was most likely been paid out some time before 2004. Because of this, I 
dont think I can say NSI have done something wrong for this aspect of the complaint.
But I recognise NSI have already accepted the service they provided when reaching this 
conclusion was unreasonable. And theyve accepted Miss R was providing with misleading 
information, caused in part by another account Miss R held and the confusion surrounding 
which account they were referring to. I dont doubt this wouldve been upsetting and 
frustrating for Miss R. And I completely understand why this misinformation, and lack of 
clarity, would lead Miss R to question the accuracy of NSIs conclusions leading her to raise 
a complaint and then refer it to our service.
NSI have offered Miss R a total of £100 to recognise any upset and inconvenience this 
caused. I think this offer is a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve directed had it not 
already been made. I think it fairly addresses the unnecessary confusion and inconvenience 
Miss R was caused, while also taking into account the fact NSI did make reasonable checks 
to locate Miss Rs account, which ultimately were unsuccessful. So, I dont think they need to 
do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss R was hoping for. And I appreciate this decision 
wont help address the financial loss she feels shes suffered. I want to reassure Miss R that 
Ive considered all of the information shes provided and the comments shes made, and Ive 
thought at length about the clear impact this complaint has had. But for me to say NSI 
should do something more than what they have already, I need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong. And Im unable to say thats the case on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint about National Savings 
and Investments. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman