DRN-2016582
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs D says NatWest Markets Plc (trading at the time as RBS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs Ds application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. There was a box 
which could be ticked if she wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt want it. The 
box was ticked and Mrs D signed the form to confirm her choices. And Ive not seen any 
wider problems with RBSs sales process from the time. So I think its most likely that RBS 
made it clear Mrs D didnt have to take out PPI and that she chose to take it  though I can 
understand if she no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether RBS recommended the PPI to Mrs D, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on RBS if it did recommend it  so to be as fair as possible to Mrs D, Ill assess 
things as if it did. That would mean RBS had to check that the policy was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, it 
looks like Mrs D was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions 
or limitations. The policy would have paid out on top of Mrs Ds work benefits and offered her 
more comprehensive cover, such as for when her benefits reduced to just a fraction of her 
normal pay. So it looks like the policy could have been useful for Mrs D in case shed 
needed to claim.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But that, on its own, does not necessarily mean the policy was mis-sold. Instead, the 
question is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind. Here, it 
looks like Mrs D chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted this type of cover. 
As I said above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI, and it could have been useful for Mrs D in case something went wrong. And the PPI 
was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs D could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off buying it.
This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mrs D about that. Because RBS didnt tell her, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so NatWest Markets Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But NatWest Markets Plc does have to pay back to Mrs D any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman