DRN-3678643
The complaint
Miss D complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd did not give her clear information about the 
charges which would be applied to her policy, which she thinks were excessive.
She also complains about the way Zurich handled her request to transfer her pension to 
another pension provider.
What happened
Miss D had been making monthly contributions into her Zurich pension plan since November 
1991.
In September 2021, she received a statement from Zurich which showed that over 50% of 
her annual contributions that period had been used to pay charges. The September 2021 
statement showed for the first time, the Total charges in statement period.
Zurich said the terms and conditions of the plan, including the charges payable, would have 
been sent to Miss D when she set up the policy.
Upon receiving the September 2021 statement, Miss D phoned Zurich twice that month to 
clarify the charges. As Zurichs representative was unable to answer her queries, it treated 
her concerns about the charges as a formal complaint.
On 30 September 2021 Miss D received a response from Zurich explaining the charges that 
had been applied to her plan. The response, however, did not provide an explanation on her 
specific enquiry about why in 2017, capital units were converted into accumulation units.
Miss D called Zurich again on 7 October 2021 querying this point, including why the units did 
not tally. She chased a response again on 20 October 2021. However, the response she 
received on 11 November 2021, still did not explain why the units had been converted in 
2017 and why they did not tally.
 
This led to Miss D personally looking through the terms and conditions of the policy to work 
out why this had happened. She called Zurich on 18 November 2021 to clarify her 
understanding. Zurich sent her a letter on 19 November 2021, to explain what had been 
discussed between them the previous day.   
Miss D decided to transfer her pension to another provider due to her experience trying to 
clarify the charges and because she considered the charges to be excessive.
On 19 November 2021 she discussed with Zurich what needed to happen to transfer her 
pension to AJ Bell. Zurich explained this during the phone call and sent Miss D a transfer 
pack that same day.
On 29 November 2021, Zurich received a request from AJ Bell via Origo, the online transfer
service used by businesses to complete transfers. The transfer was completed on the 7 
December 2021 using the unit value as at 29 November 2021, the date the request to 
transfer was received.
Prior to Zurich receiving Miss Ds signed transfer form from the transfer pack, she received 
an email from Zurich confirming that the transfer had been completed. She complained to 
Zurich about this because she felt the transfer had been processed without her written 
consent. Also, she pointed out that the transfer had been completed on a date when unit 
values were lower.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ds complaint and recommended that it should not be 
upheld. She found that the charges had been made in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. She acknowledged that whilst it must have been frustrating for 
Miss D not to have been given information about the capital and accumulation units earlier, 
customer service staff cannot be trained in every aspect. The investigator concluded that 
Zurich had fairly explained to Miss D on the phone that if AJ Bell used Origo, the transfer 
would go ahead via the online system and the transfer pack she had been sent would not be 
required.
Miss D did not accept our investigators recommendation. She said in summary, she:
did not recall whether she had been sent a copy of the terms and conditions of the 
policy at the outset. Her complaint was about the excessive nature of the charges 
that had been applied and the lack of transparency.
did not have a problem with the capital units being converted into accumulation units 
but wanted to know why the number of units converted did not tally. No-one could 
explain this to her. She had to work this out for herself. It took 2 purported experts 
within Zurich and 3 months for a response to be provided, which indicated a flawed 
approach to customer service.
was misled about when the transfer would go ahead.
considered that regulatory bodies should be concerned about the issues raised here.
As agreement couldnt be reached Miss Ds complaint comes to me for a decision.
What I have decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should perhaps first explain the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulatory body. 
The Financial Conduct Authority regulates financial services firms and financial markets in 
the UK. Here, what I am considering, is whether Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably in 
the way it has applied charges to Miss Ds policy and in how it handled her pensions 
transfer. This service considers each case on its own facts and merits.
Was Miss D told about the charges that applied to her Zurich policy?
Miss D took out her pensions policy in 1991. As our investigator explained, the reason why 
Miss D received a statement in September 2021 showing charges in a different format was 
because new regulations had been introduced requiring businesses to present charges 
information in a different way.
The markets in financial instruments directive II (MiFID II), which led to regulatory changes, 
required businesses to calculate and disclose transaction costs. These costs included those 
from buying and selling underlying assets in an investment product.
The rules aimed to improve transparency by requiring firms to disclose costs and charges as 
cash amounts on top of the long-standing industry practice of quoting percentage figures. Looking at the terms and conditions of Miss Ds policy and comparing them to the 
breakdown of charges included in her September 2021 statement, I cant see that Zurich 
applied the charges wrongly. I think because the information was presented more 
transparently (which was the objective of the new regulations) Miss D probably had a clearer 
idea about the amount of charges she was paying. As the costs were the same as Miss D 
was told they would be in the terms and conditions, I cant reasonably conclude that Zurich 
acted unfairly in the way it applied the costs.
I think it likely that Miss D would have been given details of Zurichs terms and conditions 
when she took out her policy in 1991. Overall, therefore, I think Zurich did what it was 
required to do both pre and post MFID II to inform her of the charges she was paying.
Explanation about Capital Units being transferred into Accumulation Units
The policy terms, which I have concluded that Miss D was likely sent by Zurich when she 
took out the policy, did explain about cancellation of capital units and conversion into 
accumulation units. Miss D said she was not concerned about the conversion, but more that 
the amount of units converted did not tally.
I think Zurich could have responded to Miss Ds enquiry about this sooner. However, I do not 
consider that it is necessary or appropriate to make an award for compensation. I cant see 
that Miss D has lost out because of this. Fortunately, she was able to work out for herself by 
reading through the policy terms the reason for the cancellation and the difference in 
converted units. I think Zurich provided her with sufficient information to work this out.
I acknowledge, however, Miss Ds frustration, when she asked a question about this and 
didnt get a complete response initially. I also accept that it took some time to provide a full 
response. Like our investigator explained, customer services staff cannot always be trained 
on every aspect of each policy offered by a business and it is therefore necessary at times 
for queries to be referred to more technical areas.
How the transfer was handled
Having heard the phone call between Zurich and Miss D on 19 November 2021, I think it 
was made clear to her that if the transfer could go ahead via Origo, then transfer forms may 
not be needed. Zurichs representative said transfer forms would be sent out in case AJ Bell, 
the new pension provider, did not use Origo. The representative Miss D spoke with, 
however, said they thought AJ Bell did use Origo and therefore Zurich would not need the 
transfer forms.
During the call, Miss D was concerned that the Origo request may be cancelled if a transfer 
pack was ordered and sent to her. The representative confirmed that the Origo request 
would still be accepted and processed via Origo if AJ Bell sent the transfer request through 
to Zurich that way. Miss D was also told that she would receive the fund value on the day the 
transfer was requested.
Zurich received a transfer request from AJ Bell via Origo and processed Miss Ds transfer 
application via Origo using the transfer value on the day the transfer was requested for 
valuation purposes. 
Zurich did also send Miss D the transfer pack, which said the transfer would take place on 
receipt of the transfer form. However, the transfer pack did also explain that where the 
selected provider was also a member of Origo, that Origo would be used to complete the 
transfer.Miss D felt that she had been misled by Zurich and that it was fair for her to place greater 
reliance on the written transfer pack information, rather than the information she was given 
on the phone by Zurichs representative. In support of this position, she said that the 
information she had been given by Zurich by phone at earlier times, could not be relied 
upon.  
When considering both the written and oral information provided, I think Miss D was given 
enough clear information during the phone call and in the transfer pack paperwork to 
understand that the application would be dealt with by Origo if both businesses used that 
service, which they did.  So, I cant see that Zurich mishandled Miss Ds transfer application 
on that basis, or that Miss D has lost out financially as a result of Zurichs actions. It 
happened to be the case that due to market fluctuations, Miss Ds transfer value would have 
been with more if not dealt with via Origo, but markets regularly go up and down and I cant 
see that Zurich acted unfairly towards Miss D when processing her transfer request.
My final decision
Overall, therefore, for the reasons given, I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint and Zurich does 
not need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman