DRN-4304305
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about Covea Insurance plcs (Covea) handling of a flood claim 
against her buildings insurance policy which occurred in 2012. 
What happened
This complaint relates to flood damage reported by Mrs R to Covea in 2012. Given the 
background to the complaint is well known to both Mrs R and Covea I dont intend to repeat 
it here. In this decision Ill focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
I issued a provisional decision on 25 July 2023 which set out the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
A number of issues have been raised in relation to this matter  Ive not addressed each one 
individually. Rather, Ive focused on what I consider to be the pertinent points. That isnt 
meant as a discourtesy to either party, it simply reflects our Services informal nature. 
An ombudsman decided in 2014 that Covea should deal with Mrs Rs flood claim because 
water samples had determined it was mains water. Following this, Covea say they tried to 
reach Mrs R to progress the claim by cash settling it, but as they couldnt reach her, they 
closed the file. Mrs R then complained around 2019 and things began to progress. Mrs R 
instructed her own surveyor to oversee the repairs. They put together a scope of works that 
went out for tender, and the surveyor then recommended contractors to Covea, and the cost 
of repairs were said to be roughly £35,000 (including a contingency sum). Unfortunately, 
Covid-19 halted works in 2020, and nothing in terms of progress has really happened since. 
Mrs R says her health has been impacted by the condition of her property thats deteriorated 
over this significant period. 
Mrs R said she didnt want the cash settlement offered by Covea. And Mrs R, in 2023, told 
the investigator she still has these funds available. But the claim notes also suggest Mrs R 
didnt want Covea to undertake the repairs, and she didnt want the hassle of appointing her 
own contractors to undertake the works either. This puts matters in a very difficult position. 
The policy says Covea are entitled to settle a claim by cash settling it. Thats ultimately what 
happened here  Mrs R instructed a surveyor to oversee the claim, set out the scope of 
works, and provide Covea with detailed costings for these works. Following the tender 
process, the surveyor recommended the contractors who provided the most competitive 
quote, and Covea accepted this. Covea werent responsible for overseeing the surveyor 
appointed by Mrs R  or importantly  the contractors that were selected following the tender 
process. Coveas liability for the claim was limited to cash settling it. The claim notes show 
once repairs started, they paid an initial settlement figure. I understand Mrs R was also in 
alternative accommodation before repairs were halted. Then, later, following many email 
exchanges between Covea and Mrs R where Covea were telling Mrs R to re-engage her 
surveyor and contractors to recommence with works, they completed the settlement by 
paying Mrs R a further £32,000, in 2022. 
As mentioned above, Coveas liability for the claim was limited to cash settling it. Theyve 
paid Mrs R the amount given by Mrs Rs contractors that they considered  at that time  to 
be the required funds to complete a lasting and effective repair to the claim-related damage. 
This was based on the scope of works listed by her own surveyor. 
Covea werent responsible for the scope of works, nor were they responsible for the actions 
of the surveyor and contractors. I acknowledge Mrs R says she didnt think the repairs were 
costed correctly or included everything. For example, she says the quote allowed for £3,500 
for a kitchen thats worth £10,000. But her concerns with scope and costings were the 
responsibility for her own surveyor to resolve  not Coveas. 
Therefore, its my opinion Covea has dealt with the claim in line with the policy. It follows, I 
dont find Covea made an error here. Im satisfied they took very reasonable steps to try to 
direct Mrs R to re-engage her own surveyor and appointed contractors. And they settled the 
claim fairly by cash settling it in line with the outcome of the tender process Mrs Rs own 
surveyor was responsible for. 
As a result of the delays, I acknowledge Mrs Rs property has suffered further damage and 
deterioration. Its also known that the costings provided during the 2019 tender process will 
now be outdated due to inflation. But I cant hold Covea responsible for these concerns or 
causing avoidable delays. I say this because, as mentioned above, their liability here was 
limited to cash settling the claim only based on the costings provided following the tender 
process. the onus was on Mrs Rs own surveyor to ensure all claim-related works were 
included within the scope of works used during the tender process. 
I acknowledge the time the claim has ran on for, and have no doubt this has been a very 
difficult time for Mrs R. Shes endured many years living in a water damaged property with 
incomplete repairs. Shes only the use of one room in her property and has said its unsafe 
to walk to the kitchen given the level of damage. And Im aware of the further works required 
to put her property back into a liveable condition. But, based on what Ive seen so far, Im not 
satisfied Covea are responsible for this. 
Covea does have an outstanding liability for the claim which is to cash settle any reasonable 
alternative accommodation costs while repairs to Mrs Rs property commence and complete. 
Thats something all parties are already aware of. 
I accept this wont be the outcome Mrs R was expecting nor hoping for following the 
investigators assessment. But I must consider whether Im satisfied Covea made an error 
here or failed to settle the claim in line with the policy terms. And  for the reasons Ive 
mentioned above  Im not satisfied they did. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my provisional decision is I dont uphold the 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mrs R responded to my decision and said, broadly, that: - Covea should have repaired her property following an ombudsman issuing a final 
decision in 2014 directing them to do so. 
- Her address and telephone number hasnt changed, and its unfair for Covea to rely 
on not being able to reach her to handle the claim in the way they did. 
- Covea told her to get contractors to provide quotes for repairs. She told Covea she 
didnt know any contractors that could do this and was therefore told to use previous 
contractors she had used to provide a quote. The other two quotes were provided by 
contractors she didnt know and doesnt know who appointed them. 
- The local water company say water is entering Mrs Rs property as the result of a 
water table. And no matter how much money Covea pay her, the property cannot be 
repaired until the water has been removed. 
Ive carefully considered Mrs Rs comments and will now set out my final decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R says her property is covered for any water damage, but thats not necessarily the 
case. The policy terms set out a list of perils which are the insured events Mrs R is required 
to demonstrate occurred that resulted in her property suffering loss or damage. With respect 
to water damage, the policy says it covers damage following a storm, flood, escape of water, 
or issues with underground pipes  subject to policy exclusions. An ombudsman decided in 
2014 that water tested was found to be mains water  so they directed Covea to deal with 
the claim, amongst other things. 
Given an ombudsman decided previously on the claim outcome, I wont give further 
comment on the cause of damage that gave rise to the original claim, or the further issues 
Mrs R says a water company stated was the result of a rising water table. Im considering 
whether Im satisfied Covea settled the claim in line with the policy terms. Covea cash 
settled the claim in 2022 but Mrs R says the amount wasnt enough and didnt cover 
everything that was damaged. 
It's important I refer back to the policy terms, which say under Section A: Buildings, that: 
As long as the loss or damage is covered under this policy, we will decide whether to settle 
a claim by either rebuilding, repairing or replacing or by making a payment in respect of the 
damaged part of the buildings.... 
In this case, its my opinion Covea acted in line with the policy terms cited above. Mrs R had 
her own surveyor who was responsible for providing a scope of works to put right the claim-
related issues, the tender process, and overseeing the claim. Mrs Rs surveyor provided 
Covea with their opinion that the contractors who provided the most competitive quote were 
appropriate to carry out repairs. And, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Covea to rely on this 
when settling the claim. 
Im satisfied Coveas cash settlement wasnt based on preferential rates only they could 
obtain  they paid Mrs R the amount the surveyor had considered adequate and reasonable 
to undertake and complete the claim-related repairs. The scope of works shows this included 
levelling the solum and installing a damp-proof membrane which, as I understand it, its 
purpose is to waterproof a building to protect it. I acknowledge Mrs R says this scope of 
works didnt include everything, but as mentioned previously, that was the responsibility for 
her own surveyor to manage, and Coveas liability was cash settling the claim. In summary, the policy entitled Covea to cash settle the claim. That cash settlement amount 
was based on Mrs Rs own surveyors scope of works and tender process Covea werent 
responsible for. As mentioned above, Coveas liability was limited to cash settling the claim 
and Im satisfied they carried this out fairly and in line with the policy. Therefore, it follows, I 
dont require Covea to take further action here. 
As mentioned within my provisional decision, Covea has an outstanding liability for the claim 
which is to cash settle any reasonable alternative accommodation costs while repairs take 
place. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs R. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to informally resolve her dispute with Covea  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman