DRN-1419591
 
The complaint
Miss S has complained about a loan granted to her by Provident Personal Credit Limited 
trading as Satsuma Loans (Satsuma or the lender). Miss S says that she could not afford 
the repayments on her loan and that Satsuma should have known this and not agreed to 
lend to her.
What happened
Satsuma agreed one loan for Miss S for £500 in September 2016. It was to be repaid over 
13 weeks with a weekly repayment of about £55. I understand from the information Satsuma 
provided that the loan was repaid in full the following month.
Our adjudicator already looked into Miss Ss complaint and didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She explained that Satsuma had gathered enough information to reasonably assess 
whether Miss S could meet her repayments in a sustainable manner. She found that 
Satsuma hadnt irresponsibly lent on this occasion because it seemed from the information 
gathered that Miss S would be able to repay her loan without difficulty. 
Miss S didnt agree with this recommendation and so the complaint has come to me, as an 
ombudsman, for review and final decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that approach here. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Miss S took out her loan. The 
relevant rules and guidance said that before lending Satsuma needed to take reasonable 
steps to check that she could afford to meet her repayments in a sustainable manner. This 
meant Miss S being able to meet her repayments out of her normal income without having to 
go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Satsuma needed to carry out but 
were clear that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the same 
checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same consumer 
in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint. Having done so, I am not upholding 
her complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Miss S and I hope the following 
explanation helps her to understand why I have come to this conclusion.
Satsuma says it asked Miss S for information about her regular income and expenses when 
she applied for a loan. The lender recorded her monthly income as £900 and her monthly 
expenses as £50, which included £15 towards repaying existing credit. It also recorded that 
she lived with her parents.
Satsuma said that it gathered some information about Miss Ss existing credit commitments 
through a third-party credit reference agency. It found Miss S was paying more than shed 
said towards existing debts each month and so it included an increased amount for this 
expense in its affordability assessment. The lender also included an estimated amount for 
other costs based on the information it gathered via the credit reference agency and its 
internal lending models. Satsuma subsequently concluded that Miss S could afford her loan 
repayments. 
I think the assessment Satsuma carried out here was in proportion to the circumstances. In
Miss Ss case, she took out one loan to be repaid over three months. She didnt have a 
previous borrowing relationship with Satsuma that the lender ought to have taken into 
account. The loan repayments didnt take up such a significant proportion of her monthly 
income that this alone might render the lending irresponsible. And it seems from the 
information Miss S gave Satsuma that she had enough disposable income to meet her loan 
repayments over the length of the agreement. 
I have borne in mind that Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure Miss S could 
not just meet her loan repayments but be able to do so in a sustainable manner, in other 
words without borrowing from elsewhere. The information Miss S gave suggested she would 
have £850 a month left to meet her loan repayments. Satsumas affordability calculations 
reduced this considerably, such that she would have less than £50 remaining after making 
her repayments each month. However, given what Miss S told the lender about her 
circumstances, I dont think this alone means Satsuma should have declined to lend to her.
Satsuma said that it didnt find anything in its checks to suggest that it ought to have looked 
further into Miss Ss financial situation before agreeing to lend and, from what Ive seen, that 
seems to be the case. So I cant say that Satsuma ought to have done more to assess the 
affordability of the loan for her.
Miss S said that she was not in a good position financially when she applied to Satsuma for 
a loan - she had an existing long-term loan, and shed recently lost her job, had no income 
and was in receipt of Job Seekers Allowance. She also said that she needed to borrow from 
elsewhere in order to repay her Satsuma loan and that her financial situation then got more 
difficult. The information Miss S has provided to this Service supports what shes said about 
her circumstances at the time.I am sure that things have not been easy for Miss S and Im sorry to hear of her financial 
difficulties. I can understand why she feels Satsuma shouldnt have agreed to lend to her at 
this time. However, the view Satsuma had of her circumstances didnt show that she would 
have struggled to meet her repayments. As Ive said, in some cases I might think that a 
lender ought to have taken further steps in order to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment. But there wasnt anything in the information Satsuma had or the circumstances 
in which the loan was agreed that makes me think it should have done more. So I dont think 
it lent irresponsibly on this occasion and I cant uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Miss Ss complaint and I dont make any 
award against Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman