DRN-2656118
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly charged an 
administration fee when he changed the car insured on his policy.
What happened
Mr M bought a car insurance policy which was underwritten by Advantage. He later changed 
the car to be insured under the policy and Advantage charged him an administration fee of 
£20. Mr M complained as he believed the charge to be disproportionate and unfair.
Advantage has explained that it is upfront about the fees it charges customers for its 
services. It says they are clearly shown during the online sales process and that theyre also 
clearly set out in the policy documentation. It says Mr M wouldve been aware that it would 
charge for a mid-term adjustment when he bought his policy.
Advantage says the fee is charged to cover the costs it incurs for administering the change, 
such as producing and sending documentation and/or updating the motor insurance 
databases.
Mr M says that he carried out the change online which means Advantage didnt incur these 
costs. Hes also highlighted that the new car was the same make and model as his old car. 
He says hes been struggling financially due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, so he 
would like Advantage to waive the fee as a gesture of goodwill. He also says his son had a 
similar fee waived by a different insurer in similar circumstances. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said Advantage had made the charges clear to Mr M and acted in line with its terms and 
conditions when applying the charge.
Mr M didnt agree. He says the fact that the same fee is applied to changes made either 
online or by phone shows that Advantages fees are not in line with its true costs. He says 
many insurers charge different amounts in these circumstances and that some do not 
charge for changes made online. He says the new charges and documentation were 
available instantly online, so he doesnt agree with the explanation about staffing costs 
offered by Advantage.
Because no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ms arguments about the fairness of the charges and about his 
individual circumstances. I should point out that Im not able to consider what Mr M has said 
about his sons insurer and its decision to offer a gesture of goodwill. Im only considering 
Mr Ms complaint about Advantage here, and we decide each complaint based on its 
individual facts. 
That means Ill consider the actions of Advantage, including whether the amount charged 
was in line with what the policy says and whether Advantage has treated Mr M the same as 
it would treat other customers in similar situations. Ill also consider whether the amount 
charged by Advantage is in line with what the industry charges generally and whether the 
amount seems fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M bought his car insurance policy, he agreed to accept Advantages terms and 
conditions  including the fees it would charge for making mid-term adjustments. Ive seen 
screenshots of the online sales process which demonstrate that the charge for changing the 
car insured is clearly outlined at £20. This charge is also clearly set-out in the policy 
documents. So, I think Mr M had the opportunity to decide not to take out the policy, or to 
cancel it within the cooling off period, if he didnt agree with the fees Advantage said it would 
charge for this.
Advantage has explained that the charge covers a variety of costs such as staffing, 
document production, software licenses, reporting changes to the relevant databases and 
more. And it says it charges the same flat fee of £20 to all customers regardless of the 
medium they use to make the mid-term change
I accept that an insurer will incur costs when updating policies, irrespective of how the 
change request was made or how similar the new car is to the old car. So, taking everything 
into account, I dont think Advantage has treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably. 
I say this because the charge was clearly outlined when Mr M was deciding to buy the 
policy, as well as in the policy documentation Advantage sent to him, and I dont think its out 
of line with what the industry typically charges for changes of this nature. I also havent seen 
anything to suggest that Advantage has treated Mr M differently than it would treat other 
customers, in similar positions.
I understand Mr M has experienced some financial difficulties and I sympathise. But I dont 
have any power to compel Advantage to make a gesture of goodwill. I only have the power 
to make an award against Advantage where I believe it has done something wrong. And 
while I appreciate Mr M will likely be disappointed with my decision, I dont think Advantage 
has done anything wrong in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman