DRN-4118983
The complaint
Miss C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In July 2021 Miss C applied for a credit card with Virgin Money, Virgin Money approved the 
application and gave Miss C a credit card with an initial credit limit of £10,000.
Miss C complained that Virgin Money had lent to her irresponsibly to her. She said she 
already had significant borrowing with other lenders at the time she applied for the credit 
card.
Virgin Money didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. It said it had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before lending to Miss C.
Miss C remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that the checks carried out by Virgin Money 
showed that Miss C was unlikely to be able to repay the loan sustainably.
Virgin Money didnt agree. It said it had considered the full household income when 
assessing affordability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss Cs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that Virgin Money had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss C could repay the debt in a sustainable way. These 
checks needed to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of whats 
considered reasonable and proportionate will vary but should take into account things such 
as the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, the cost of 
credit and the consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Virgin Money says it looked at the information Miss C had provided about her employment 
status, residential status and income. Miss C declared an annual income of £45,000.
Virgin Money carried out a credit search against Miss Cs credit file and, on the basis of the 
information it had gathered, decided to approve the application for a credit card.
Ive reviewed the information that was revealed by the credit search. This shows that Miss C 
had existing consumer credit commitments of around £18,476. She was making monthly 
credit repayments of around £752.
Virgin Moneys checks also showed that Miss C was paying rent of £1000 per month.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Virgin Money were reasonable 
and proportionate. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair.
Miss C was approved for the credit card with an initial credit limit of £10,000. At the same 
time, she was approved for a balance transfer £9500. The minimum repayment on the credit 
cards first monthly statement was £98.80. Taking Mis Cs total existing credit commitments 
into account, including the Virgin Money card, Miss C was making credit repayments of 
around £850 per month. This is a significant amount when compared to her monthly income 
of around £3000. Its generally the case that consumers who are using more than 25% of 
their monthly income to repay debt are more likely to struggle to repay that debt in the future.
Taking this into account and having regard to the amount of the credit limit, I dont think the 
lending decision was fair. I think Virgin Money shouldve realised that Miss C was unlikely to 
be able to sustainably repay the borrowing, taking her financial circumstances into account.
Virgin Money has said that it assessed the loan as affordable based on Miss Cs declared 
household income of £75,000. Our approach to household income is that it can be relied on 
to assess affordability in circumstances where the business has also considered household 
expenditure, and where the business has checked that the consumer has access to the 
household income and if so, how much.
In tis case, Miss C has told this service that she didnt have any access to her partners 
income. Shes also explained that she was solely responsible for paying the rent because 
her partner had significant debts at the time. 
Based on all the information Ive seen, I dont think the decision to lend was fair.
Putting things right
To put things right, Virgin Money should:
1.Refund all the interest and charges paid by Miss C
2.If the borrowing is still in place, reduce the outstanding capital balance by the amount at 
(1)
3.If, after (2) there is an outstanding balance, Virgin Money should ensure that this isnt 
subject to any future interest or charges. However, if after (2) there is a positive balance, this 
should be refunded to Miss C together with 8% simple interest *
4.Virgin Money should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file as a 
result of interest and charges
*HMRC may require Virgin Money to deduct tax from the refund of interest. Virgin Money 
must give Miss C a certificate showing how much has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman