DRN-3290248
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding payments he made as a 
result of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here in relation to the funds Mr S hasnt been 
able to retrieve by way of chargeback. Mr S was contacted by a merchant in 2017 and 
started to make payments to the merchant in May 2017. In August 2017 he made two 
payments of £10,000 on 30 & 31 August 2017. 
Mr S started to become suspicious of the merchant when he was unable to withdraw his 
funds. So, he contacted HSBC about the scam and raised a chargeback for some further 
transactions that he made in February 2018. 
HSBC was successful in getting Mr Ss money back via the chargebacks except for the two 
£10,000 payments in August 2017. Mr S was unhappy he couldnt get all his money back, so 
he raised a complaint. HSBC said it was unsuccessful with the two payments because the 
merchant challenged the chargeback and said the payments werent covered via 
chargeback for binary options because they took place prior to 14 October 2017. But it 
agreed to pay £75 compensation for errors in the way it handled the chargeback and 
complaint. 
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said he had 
successfully raised chargeback claims on transactions he had made before the two in 
dispute here. And he was unhappy with how HSBC had dealt with this matter. 
HSBC has said it shouldve advised Mr S at the outset that it wouldnt be able to raise a 
chargeback in relation to these two transactions because they were made to fund a trading 
account. Instead it continued with the chargeback under reason code 13.5, but this was 
refused by the merchant due to no chargeback rights as the transactions were made before 
14 October 2017. HSBC added that any delays it caused in raising the chargeback werent 
detrimental to its outcome because there were no rights to raise a chargeback in the 
circumstances. 
HSBC added that the reason the delay in raising the chargeback wasnt detrimental here 
was because the card schemes rules were expanded in 2017 to cover certain 
circumstances involving binary options/investments but this was only for transactions made 
from 14 October 2017. 
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr S didnt have 
the necessary evidence to make a successful chargeback under the card schemes rules and 
the two transactions were made before the 14 October 2017. The investigator said that he 
didnt think the two transactions were unusual or suspicious to HSBC and there were no 
active warnings about the merchant when the payments were made, so he didnt think it had 
treated Mr S unfairly by not doing more to stop the payments at the time.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said HSBC had delayed raising 
the chargeback which had led to it being unsuccessful and said it isnt fair that the 
chargeback wasnt pursued further with the merchant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr S has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive firstly considered whether HSBC shouldve done more to stop all the payments Mr S 
made towards this scam. It is common ground that Mr S authorised the scam payments 
totalling around £60,000. I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr S 
was the victim of a scam. So, although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the scammers, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his account, Mr S is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for HSBC to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions by Mr S given to HSBC (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity. Ive 
reviewed the account statements for nine months before Mr S made the payments towards 
the scam. The account typically maintained a healthy balance which ranged between around 
£1,000 and on occasions more than £20,000. And there were genuine transactions of 
£10,000 and around £8,600 in March 2017 before the scam took place. 
As a result, Im not satisfied Mr Ss payments ought to have stood out to HSBC as unusual 
or suspicious because he had recently made similar payments. So, I dont think HSBC 
treated Mr S unfairly by not stepping in here and asking questions of him.
Because the payments that havent been refunded were made on a debit card, chargeback 
was the only option for HSBC to potentially pursue a refund for Mr S. Whilst there are some 
protections under the relevant chargeback scheme, this isnt a guarantee of a refund. 
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr S.HSBC said some of the previous chargebacks that Mr S made were successful because 
they werent contested by the merchant. But the chargeback in relation to the two 
transactions Mr S has complained about here were contested. And as the investigator has 
explained, the card scheme that runs the chargeback service changed its rules in 2017 to 
include payments made towards binary options/investments. But only for payments made on 
or after 14 October 2017  which is the defence the merchant successfully used. So, Im 
satisfied that due to Mr Ss payments being made before that date, HSBC hasnt unfairly 
decided that they were unlikely to succeed if the merchant contested the chargeback. 
HSBC has said it couldve handled the matter better and paid £75 compensation. Its said it 
raised the chargebacks in good faith because Mr S had been scammed but it shouldve been 
clear this would likely fail if the merchant contested it. That doesnt seem unreasonable to 
me in the circumstances. Bearing in mind what Ive said about the dates of Mr Ss 
transactions and the card schemes rules, HSBC couldve reasonably not attempted the 
chargeback. But it decided to do so, and Mr S did receive some of his money back. I note 
what Mr S has said about the delays and the time he spent trying to speak to HSBC for 
updates. But Im satisfied HSBC has offered a reasonable amount for the inconvenience its 
caused here. 
Im sorry to hear Mr S lost the funds to the scammers. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think HSBC have acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman