DRN-3032209
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) did not implement their own policy for people 
over 70. Mr H also complains that Lloyds did not respond to his concerns on this subject.
What happened
In 2020, Mr H brought a complaint to the service about wording that appeared in a document 
that he was sent. Mr H felt that its wording was ageist and contrary to equality legislation.
An ombudsman looked at the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think that Lloyds 
had done anything by including wording that recommended that Mr H should have a friend or 
relative present at meetings. 
Since the ombudsmans decision, Mr H has had discussions and meetings with Lloyds 
where they have not recommended that Mr H has a friend or relative present. Mr H believes 
that this is contrary to their policy.
Mr H complained to Lloyds because of this and has written to them on repeated occasions. 
Mr H says that they have ignored his letters and have only recently responded to him.
Lloyds regard the complaint as the same issue that has been previously brought by Mr H 
and this was the reason that they didnt respond to the complaint.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and sought advice internally. The 
investigator thought that it was a new complaint and should be investigated.
The investigator reviewed the merits of the complaint and thought that it that should be 
upheld. The investigator thought that due to the lack of response from Lloyds and the 
amount of time and effort that Mr H had spent chasing the complaint, an award of £100 
compensation was reasonable.
Lloyds agreed due to pay the compensation award if Mr H accepted this as settlement of the 
complaint.
Mr H has not accepted this and still believes that the complaint is unresolved. The complaint 
has been passed to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will be upholding the complaint. 
Although I am upholding the complaint, I know that my decision will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H and I am aware of his strength of feeling on this subject.
Mr H has spent a great deal of time responding to the service and providing detailed 
submissions to argue his points.
Although its not my intention to cover off all the points raised by Mr H, I hope he will 
understand that Im not being discourteous to him or dismissing his points, but I feel that I 
can summarise the complaint better this way.
In this decision I will look at the what Mr H has said about Lloyds not implementing their own 
policy and I will look at the responses from Lloyds.
The subject of whether Lloyds policy or wording within its letter is ageist has been covered in 
a previous ombudsmans decision and Im not going to comment further on this.
Mr H says that he thinks Lloyds should have offered for a friend or relative to accompany 
him to meetings that he had had with Lloyds since his previous complaint. 
In his view, the investigator thought that Lloyds had not done anything wrong in not allowing 
Mr H this option. The investigator also thought that had Lloyds offered this suggestion, Mr H 
would not have welcomed it.
I agree with the investigator. In his original complaint, Mr H was offended that Lloyds thought 
he was a vulnerable person because of his age and thought that this amounted to ageism. 
Mr H has said that it is dangerous to regard anyone over the age of 70 as vulnerable.
Mr H does not consider himself as vulnerable and I have no reason to doubt this. Mr H has 
provided detailed submissions to the service and has articulated his stance clearly. 
I need to consider whether Lloyds have done anything wrong in not asking if Mr H wanted to 
be accompanied in his meetings. In looking at all the documentation available to me, I dont 
think that they have.
Having looked at Mr Hs original complaint and this one, I feel that Mr H may have found 
fault with whatever approach Lloyds took  this is not to say that Mr H would not have been 
entitled to have cause for complaint  but that whatever position Lloyds would have taken, 
Mr H may have said that it was wrong for them to have such or policy or that they were 
wrong to not apply their own policy.
I cant say for certain why Lloyds did not ask if Mr H wanted to have someone accompany 
him at recent meetings, but they may have considered past events and thought that Mr H 
may not be happy if they asked this question.
On balance, I dont think that Lloyds have done anything wrong in not asking if Mr H wanted 
someone to accompany him to meetings and Im not going to ask them to do anything 
differently.
Turning to Mr Hs complaint that Lloyds ignored his letters, I agree with the investigator that 
Lloyds could have done better in responding to Mr Hs letters.
Mr H wrote to Lloyds on 14 occasions since June 2020 and Lloyds responded once to Mr 
Hs letters. I think that Lloyds should have acknowledged these letters  because they didnt 
respond, Mr H felt that he was being ignored. Lloyds have said that they considered this as 
the same complaint, and this was the reason that they didnt respond to every letter.
In their submission to the service, Lloyds say that they wrote to Mr H to say that his letters 
would be filed but they would not reply. Lloyds say that the believed Mr H had exhausted the complaints process but accepted the investigators comments and his suggestion of £100 
compensation. 
I know that Mr H feels that this amount does not cover the amount of time that he has spent 
dealing with the complaint and he charges more in his business dealings. The service will 
make awards based on the impact of the complaint, but we dont consider the hourly rate 
that someone may charge.
I think that the amount suggested by the investigator is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr H £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman