DRN-3240030
The complaint
Mrs B complains she was misled when she transferred funds out of her ISA with National 
Westminster Bank Plc.  
What happened
Mrs B opened a Savings Builder account with NatWest following a branch visit in January 
2019. Mrs B says she thought it was a monthly feeder ISA not a singings account. At the 
start of April 2020 Mrs B deposited a further £10,000 into the account. 
A short time later, another ISA provider contacted NatWest and asked for Mrs Bs funds. But 
the transfer didnt immediately go through as Mrs Bs funds werent held in an ISA account. 
Transfers of Mrs Bs savings were later completed. 
Mrs B complained and said NatWest had closed the original ISA and opened a savings 
account before transferring her funds. Mrs B says that means shes now lost out the 
associated tax benefits that come with having savings in an ISA. Mrs B says the advisor 
didnt explained the consequences of this during their meeting. 
NatWest didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint and said opening a new ISA wasnt discussed 
during their meeting. But NatWest said Mrs Bs ISA allowance was discussed and the 
savings account was opened in line with her instruction. NatWest also confirmed Mrs B 
wouldve been given the associated terms and conditions for the account when it was 
opened. 
Mrs B referred her complaint to this service and it was reviewed by an investigator. They 
thought NatWest had dealt with Mrs Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mrs B asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has explained that she feels NatWest failed to explain that the account it opened for 
her in January 2019 wasnt an ISA. As a result, Mrs B says she didnt realise that 
transferring the funds out of her ISA would mean she lost the associated tax benefit. Theres 
only a limited amount of information available. I can see the branch has provided a 
statement and that there are records Mrs Bs ISA tax allowance was discussed during the 
branch visit in January 2019. But the information goes on to show Mrs B applied for the 
savings account. 
NatWest has explained that the level of interest Mrs B received as a result was higher than if 
her funds had remained in the ISA. I appreciate Mrs Bs savings were moved out of the ISA 
which has implications for the tax benefits. But I think its reasonable to take the increased 
returns NatWest paid by transferring the funds over into account. In addition, theres notes 
that indicate Mrs Bs tax allowances were discussed during the January 2019 meeting. So it 
appears this was considered. Finally, NatWest has sent in the associated product terms and 
conditions. They dont say the savings account was an ISA. 
Where the circumstances of a complaint are disputed by the parties involved, Ill base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is what I consider most likely to have occurred 
based on all the available information. In this case, it appears theres been a genuine 
misunderstanding about the nature of the account Mrs Bs funds were transferred to. But Im 
satisfied, on balance, NatWest did provide details of how the savings account worked and 
that is wasnt an ISA. I think NatWest most likely acted in line with Mrs Bs instructions. Im 
very sorry to disappoint Mrs B but I havent found NatWest misled her or provided unclear 
information. 
As Im satisfied NatWest dealt with Mrs Bs complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman