DRN-3322043
The complaint
Mr B complains about how esure Insurance Limited handled and then settled a claim made 
on his motor insurance policy. He wants a written apology and esure to pay him £5,000 in 
settlement for the loss of his car and £500 or more compensation for the trouble and stress 
its handling of the claim caused him.
What happened
In summary, Mr Bs car hit an object on the motorway, and he made a claim on his policy for 
the damage caused. esure took his car for inspection but it took some time to arrange this. A 
further inspection by an independent engineer was required. He thought the car was 
repairable, but the approved repairer later found that the car was beyond economical repair. 
esure offered Mr B £3,345, less the policy excess, in settlement of his claim. But Mr B 
thought his car was worth £5,000.
It took about three months to reach this point following the incident. During this period, Mr B 
said he wasnt provided with updates and had to contact esure where he was frequently kept 
on hold for long periods. He was provided with a courtesy car, but Mr B said the provider 
called him daily asking for it back. He said he had to chase esure for extensions. Mr B 
needed the car to attend critical hospital appointments. esure offered Mr B £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. But Mr B said this wasnt sufficient.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
there are often delays in a claim due to appointing repairers and engineers. She thought 
there had been some avoidable delays in Mr Bs claim. But she thought esures offer of 
compensation for this was fair and reasonable. She thought esures settlement offer for the 
loss of the car was fair and reasonable as it had been made correctly in keeping with our 
approach. 
Mr B replied that he hadnt been updated by esure for months. He said the delays and level 
of customer service provided had been particularly stressful for him due to his health 
condition. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about Mr Bs ill-health. I can understand that dealing with a claim at 
this time has been an unwanted added stress for him. But from my experience, making a 
claim usually includes a level of inconvenience and stress. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ive first considered how the claim was progressed. Mr B was upset that it took three months 
for esure to settle his claim. But, as our Investigator has already explained, this isnt unusual 
where inspections are required to validate the claim and assess the damage. 
esure said the first inspection of the car led it to think that the damage to the car was 
mechanical, which wouldnt be covered by the policy. So it appointed an independent 
engineer to inspect the car. But this wasnt done at a garage and the engineer needed to 
have the car on a ramp to carry out the inspection. So a further inspection at a garage had to 
be arranged. The outcome was that esure accepted the claim. 
esure agreed that its communication with Mr B during this time had been poor as it hadnt 
told him an independent engineer had been appointed and it hadnt responded to his 
complaint within the required timescale. And it thought there had been avoidable delays in 
the claim due to the time it took to appoint an independent engineer and with the valuation. It 
offered Mr B £150 compensation for this. And I think thats fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance.
Mr B was unhappy with the settlement offered by esure when his car was deemed to be a 
total loss. The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont 
provide valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. Our 
Investigator thought that esures settlement offer for Mr Bs car was fair and reasonable. So 
Ive checked how she came to this conclusion. I can see that Mr Bs policy provides for the 
cars market value in the case of its total loss. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that the Investigator checked the motor trade guides we use for cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Bs car at the date of its loss. The guides 
take into account current market conditions and this would reflect any increase in used car 
prices. The valuations the Investigator found were in keeping with those found by esure. And 
esure had offered Mr B the highest of these. So Im satisfied that esures valuation was 
correctly made according to our approach and is fair and reasonable. I dont require it to 
increase this. 
Mr B said he had to repeatedly call esure to get an extension of his courtesy car. He also 
said the car hire provider called him daily to ask for its return. I can see from esures file that 
it offered car hire for short periods and then reviewed the requirement rather than providing 
indefinite hire. I think thats fair and reasonable as it would mitigate its costs and its 
processes are a reasonable exercise of its commercial judgement. 
From the file notes, the hire company contacted Mr B at the end of each period to request 
the cars return. So Mr B was obliged to contact esure to extend the hire three times. esure 
extended hire once whilst it awaited the independent assessors report. And on two other 
occasions, the hire company contacted esure directly to extend the hire.
I can understand that this must have been frustrating and stressful for Mr B. But I can see 
that the hire was extended each time it was requested until his claim was settled. Mr B had 
hire whilst esure carried out its assessments, so he was kept mobile during this time. And so 
I cant see that esure did anything wrong that requires it to pay Mr B further compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman