DRN-3237695
The complaint
Mr B complains Nationwide Building Society have given him misleading information and 
closed his basic bank account incorrectly.
What happened
Mr B held a basic bank account with Nationwide, which he hadnt used this for around 14 
years. He told Nationwide he wished to use the account again and required a card and PIN 
to be sent.
Nationwide said the account was still active but after 15-years of no use, it would become 
dormant.  And that to avoid this, he should make some payments to it and register for online 
banking (as Mr B lived overseas and would require remote access). Mr B followed this 
advice and paid £93 into the account.
When Mr B didnt get a card and PIN and couldnt use the online banking facility, he 
contacted Nationwide again  eventually raising the matter as a complaint. It issued two final 
response letters. In summary, these said:
- It couldnt send him a card and PIN as the account had defaulted in 2006, when the 
outstanding balance hadnt been paid.
- It had sold the debt to a third party a number of years ago. 
- Mr B would have received letters about this at the time. 
- The account should have been closed a long time ago but had stayed open. 
- It had closed the account now. 
- Overall, it didnt think it had done anything wrong in not acceding to Mr Bs request 
for a card and PIN. 
Mr B didnt think Nationwide could just close the account in his situation. He highlighted he 
had a right to have a basic bank account under relevant legislation and hed been given 
misleading information about being able to re-use it.
In respect of the debt, he didnt think this could be recovered due to the passage of time. 
The third party that now owned the debt said it had closed its file and wouldnt contact Mr B 
again. Mr B forwarded this to Nationwide.  
One of our investigators upheld the complaint in part. He found Nationwide ought to have 
realised sooner Mr B wouldnt be able to use his account. And if the account had been 
closed after it defaulted or was sold, this situation wouldnt have arisen. He felt its error had 
led to unnecessary distress and inconvenience when Mr B continued to contact it about a 
card and PIN, online banking and deposited funds.  To resolve matters, he suggested 
Nationwide pay him £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused and refund the 
£93 hed credit to the account.
The investigator didnt think Nationwide needed to do anymore. He explained that as Mr B 
didnt reside in the EU or EEA under the terms and conditions of his account, Nationwide 
could close it. And while he acknowledged Nationwide should have given him 60-days 
notice of its intention to do this, he wasnt persuaded the circumstances warranted this being 
done retrospectively as the account would be restricted for use. 
Nationwide agreed with the investigators conclusions, but Mr B didnt. He said £5,000 was 
more reflective of the difficulties hed been caused  this had severely affected his health, 
resulting in him failing exams and job interviews.  He wanted Nationwide to re-open the 
account and give him the correct period of notice. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Mr B said he wanted the Ombudsmans comments 
on potential legal proceedings involving the dispute, including whether his country of 
residence was part of the EU/EEA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B wants comment from me on him taking this dispute to court. But Im not going to do that 
 its not necessary. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a 
fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, its not necessary 
for me to respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. My role is 
to look at what happened and say whether I think the business did something wrong and if it 
did, set out what it must to do put things right. 
Its clear from Nationwides response that it had information to show the account had 
defaulted and the debt was sold, so I think it should have reasonably relayed this to Mr B 
from the outset. Instead, Mr B was led to believe he could re-use the account if he took 
certain steps. He followed Nationwides advice on this. So, I can understand his 
disappointment when he later learned what hed been told wasnt correct. However, by this 
point hed already paid money into the account and been contacting Nationwide. I will say 
more about the impact of this later in my decision. 
Recognising its error in failing to close the account earlier, Nationwide decided to close it in 
October 2021 when it responded to Mr Bs complaint.  I think Nationwide was entitled to 
close the account  Mr B isnt legally resident in a country listed in the terms and conditions 
of the account or one of the countries considered being part of the EU/EEA. I acknowledge 
Mr Bs comments about his country of residence being part of the Single Market. 
Presumably if it had been intended to include non-member states beyond those in the EEA, 
this intention would have been reflected in the choice of wording. As it was not, I cant 
extend this definition further. But I agree Nationwide should have given 60 days notice 
because thats what the account agreement said it would do. This is echoed in relevant 
regulations. So, Im satisfied there was in part a further mistake here. 
But overall, I dont think these further events caused Mr B additional material distress and/or 
inconvenience. As for almost 14 years he hadnt had anything to do with the account and 
hes told us hes had banking arrangements in his country of residence. So, its not the case 
that Mr B was left in a position where he had no access to a bank account. He wasnt 
unbanked.  
I know Mr B wants his account re-opened, a card and PIN sent to him and access to online 
banking. But Im not going to ask Nationwide to do that only to then give notice. Its not necessary or proportionate in the circumstances given Mr B wouldnt be able to use the 
account.  The account defaulted in 2006 when it was restricted for use and the account 
statements and other correspondence issued to Mr B at the time support this.  
I can see Mr B has said his health suffered because of what happened and I have read the 
letter hes provided in relation to this. Hes said he failed job interviews and exams. But while 
I accept there was an element of distress and inconvenience, Im not persuaded this was 
severe and it resulted in everything Mr B has described.  Yes, Mr B relied on Nationwides 
advice and spent time contacting it and he suffered a loss of expectation when he learned 
that he couldnt use his account. Im sorry to hear about Mr Bs health but I think the impact 
of what Nationwide got wrong here was modest.
Taking all these points together, and thinking about the actual impact, Im satisfied £200 is 
fair and reasonable. Nationwide isnt seeking to recover any money either  that debt was 
sold to someone else who has said it has closed its file. Nationwide has agreed to pay the 
amount the investigator recommended as compensation, and the additional £93 credited to 
the account. I think this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint. 
As a final note, I can see that Mr B has raised concerns about the links on his credit file 
dating back to 2004. He has held a relationship with Nationwide. But, if Mr B believes the 
information should have come off by now, he should speak with the credit reference 
agencies about this. However, Im not going to ask Nationwide to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society has made an offer of compensation 
thats fair and reasonable. And it should pay that amount (£293) to Mr B. But I make no other 
award or direction. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman