DRN-3228869
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy hes been charged for excess mileage when he voluntarily terminated him 
hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
On 7 April 2016, Mr T was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. The agreement was for £45,579.82 over 48 months; with 47 monthly payments of 
£751.54 and a final optional payment of 16,275 if he wanted to purchase the car at the end 
of the agreement. The agreement stated a maximum total allowable mileage of 14,000 miles 
a year. It also stated that Mr T would be charged 16 pence plus VAT a mile for any mileage 
that exceeded this amount.
In March 2019, Mr T exercised him right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. At this point, 
the car had done 53,348 miles. And MBFS charged him £2,178.82 for doing 11,348 miles 
more than he was allowed to under the agreement. Mr T disagreed with the excess mileage 
charge and complained to MBFS. MBFS didnt think theyd done anything wrong, so Mr T 
brought him complaint to us for investigation.
MBFS disagrees with Mr Ts understanding of whether excess mileage charges can be 
applied on voluntary termination. 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 November 2021, where I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint, Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr T was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means we can look into complaints 
about it. 
While Mr T is also disputing the amount of mileage he was allowed to do under the 
agreement  he says he was told it was 17,000 miles a year  the issue here is whether its 
fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr T anything for excess mileage after hed 
voluntarily terminated him agreement with them. 
Section 99 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) allows a consumer to terminate a 
regulated consumer credit agreement early by giving notice. And section 100 of the CCA 
sets out the consumers liability upon early termination. Section 100 says:
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement is
terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the agreement
provides for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any payment, to pay to the 
creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half of the total price exceeds the 
aggregate of the sums paid and the sums due in respect of the total price 
immediately before the termination
(3) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount specified in
subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the creditor in consequence
of the termination of the agreement by the debtor, the court may make an order for
the payment of that sum in lieu of the amount specified in subsection (1).
(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the goods 
or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased by the sum
required to recompense the creditor for that contravention
And section 173 of the CCA says that a lender cant rely on any provision in a credit 
agreement which is inconsistent with the CCA or any regulation made under the CCA.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr T signed on 7 April 2016. Under the heading 
Termination: Your Rights, it says you have the right to end this agreement  we will then 
be entitled to the return of the goods and to half the total amount payable under this 
agreement, that is £26,179.46. If you have already paid at least this amount plus any 
overdue instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to pay 
any more.
Under the heading Default Charges, the agreement also says if you do not exercise your 
right to purchase the vehicle (including if the agreement terminates early for any reason), an 
excess distance charge will be payable  for each Mile, by which the total distance travelled 
by the vehicle at the end of the period of hire exceeds the allowed distance  pro-rated for 
part years.
Section 8.1 of the agreement says If you terminate early  you will have to: (iii) pay all 
arears of Payments and other sums payable under this Agreement, (iv) pay any further sum 
to bring the total of what you have paid up to one half of the total amount payable under this 
Agreement  and (v) pay us compensation  if the Vehicle is not in good condition, repair 
and working order.
And section 12 of the agreement says:
12.1 If the Vehicle is returned to us (whether at the end of the period of hire or on 
earlier termination for any reason, including voluntary termination by you), we will 
calculate the total distance travelled by the Vehicle whilst in your possession (the 
Total Distance).
12.2 You will pay us a charge at the rate stated in this Agreement if and to the extent 
that the Total Distance exceeds the allowed distance for the Vehicle (calculated 
using the Annual Distance stated in this Agreement for each year or part of year 
between the Start Date and the date of return).
Finally, section 189 of the CCA defines Total Price as the total sum payable by the debtor 
under a hire-purchase agreement or a conditional sale agreement, including any sum 
payable on the exercise of an option to purchase, but excluding any sum payable as a 
penalty or as compensation or damages for a breach of the agreement...
Having reviewed the agreement alongside the relevant law and regulations, Im not satisfied 
that its written in such a way to allow MBFS to charge for excess mileage, without 
contravening whats set out in the CCA regarding voluntary termination.
Sections 99 and 100 of the CCA set out what MBFS are allowed to charge on voluntary 
termination. These say that any liabilities that accrue before termination arent affected by termination; and the Total Price doesnt include items that are payable as compensation for 
breaches of the agreement. 
So to determine whether MBFS can charge Mr T for the excess mileage, I need to consider 
if they were charges that accrued under the agreement before termination, or whether they 
are payable as compensation for breach of the agreement.
Both the Default Charges clause, and section 12 of the agreement, imply that any excess 
mileage charge will only be raised and become payable after the agreement has been 
terminated and the option to purchase the car hasnt been taken. So its reasonable to 
conclude that they dont fall under the liabilities that accrue before termination, as allowed by 
section 99 of the CCA.
And, because the excess mileage charge is clearly listed as a default charge, and section 12 
refers to the allowed distance for the vehicle, Im also satisfied that the excess mileage 
charge is a charge for the breach of the agreement. So it falls outside the charges allowable 
under section 100 (1) of the CCA.
Whats more, because the agreement clearly specifies the Vehicle Return Standards  what 
level of damage thats allowable when the car is returned  and this makes no reference to 
excess mileage; Im satisfied that excess mileage doesnt mean that Mr T has failed to take 
reasonable care of the car. So it also falls outside the charges allowable under section 100 
(4) of the CCA.
So, while Im satisfied that the agreement refers to excess mileage being potentially charged 
for upon voluntary termination; for the reasons stated, I dont think this is consistent with the 
protections of the CCA on voluntary termination. So I think that this term is void under 
section 173 of the CCA, in so far as it extends to excess mileage charges on voluntary 
termination. And MBFS cant rely on this to charge Mr T any more that hes liable to pay 
under the heading Termination: Your Rights.
Because of this, I dont think that the excess mileage charge has been correctly imposed in 
this instance, and its neither fair nor reasonable for MBFS to ask Mr T to pay this.
Regulatory considerations
Even if Ive misinterpreted the above, regarding when excess mileage charges begin to 
accrue, and whether excess mileage classes as failure to take reasonable care of the car; I 
need to consider the clarity of the contract. And Ive also considered MBFS obligations 
under the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business, and the provisions of 
their Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). In particular:
Principle 7
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
CONC 2.3.2
A firm must explain the key features of a regulated credit agreement to enable the
customer to make an informed choice as required by CONC 4.2.5 R (adequate
explanations).
CONC 4.2.5(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must:
a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred 
to in (2) in order to place the customer in a position to assess whether the 
agreement is adapted to the customers needs and financial situation; ...
(2) The matters referred to in (1) (a) are:
a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided 
under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the 
amount can be determined, in total under the agreement;
c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would 
have a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the 
customer is unlikely to foresee.
Ive not seen anything to indicate that Mr T discussed whether any excess mileage charges 
would fall due on voluntary termination, either with MBFS or any other party, such as a 
broker of the supplying dealership, before the agreement was taken out. And I dont think 
that the excess mileage charges were clearly explained in the agreement, because:
1. in the main part of the contract, before the terms and conditions, the termination 
rights and excess mileage are separate sections - nothing explicitly says that 
excess mileage charges apply on voluntary termination; 
2. the termination rights clearly state a maximum amount payable on voluntary 
termination, and there is no mention of additional charges applying until section 
12  three pages later and buried in the small print; and
3. nowhere else in the contract is it stated that excess mileage charges are payable 
on voluntary termination.
As such, even if the agreement and the CCA allow MBFS to charge excess mileage on 
voluntary termination, Im not persuaded that MBFS have met their obligations under CONC 
2.3.2. The agreement fails to provide an adequate explanation around whether or not the 
excess mileage charge would be payable on voluntary termination and includes conflicting 
language. Im also not satisfied that the requirements of CONC 4.2.5 have been met, as this 
requires MBFS to ensure Mr T was given an adequate explanation so that he understood 
how the features of the agreement operate where they would have a significant adverse 
effect on him in a way which he was unlikely to foresee. And, Ive seen no evidence that 
MBFS gave Mr T any adequate explanation of the charge for excess distance which may be 
payable on voluntary termination over and above the sum set under the termination rights. 
And its for the same reasons I think the agreement wasnt clear, fair and not misleading, and 
that MBFS breached Principle 7 of the FCA Principles for Businesses. 
For all of the reasons stated above, Im not satisfied that MBFS are acting fairly or 
reasonably by charging for the excess mileage in this case. And Im minded to direct them 
to:
remove the excess mileage charge from Mr Ts account. If this amount, or part of it, 
has already been paid by Mr T, MBFS should refund this along with 8% simple yearly 
interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr T made the payment to the date of 
the refund ; andremove any adverse information relating to the excess mileage charge from Mr Ts 
credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MBFS to take off tax from this interest. MBFS must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
And, because of the above, I dont consider it necessary to comment on whether Mr T was 
separately advised that he had a 17,000 mile annual allowance or not.
Responses
Mr T accepted my provisional decision. MBFS chose not to make any comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the acceptance of my provisional view by Mr T, and the lack of response 
from MBFS. And, in doing so, my provisional view hasnt changed.
Putting things right
I remain satisfied that the MBFS didnt act fairly by changing Mr T excess mileage in this 
case. So, MBFS should now:
remove the excess mileage charge from Mr Ts account. If this amount, or part of it, 
has already been paid by Mr T, MBFS should refund this along with 8% simple yearly 
interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr T made the payment to the date of 
the refund ; and
remove any adverse information relating to the excess mileage charge from Mr Ts 
credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MBFS to take off tax from this interest. MBFS must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ts complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman