DRN-3370574
The complaint
Mr B complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund funds coercively taken from his 
account and that it failed in its obligations to protect him. 
Mr Bs complaint is represented by his daughter and power of attorney, Mrs B. Where 
appropriate I will refer to Mrs B.  
What happened
Between late 2019 and mid-2020, Mr B was in a relationship with an individual who was later 
convicted of defrauding him. Mrs B says the fraudster took around £26,000 from Mr Bs 
HSBC account. The money was withdrawn from branch through several transactions  either
from a cashier or an ATM machine.
Mrs B says her father was coerced and manipulated into giving these funds to the fraudster.
She adds his medical condition and age made him vulnerable to such a thing, and because
of that, HSBC should have done more to protect him.
Mrs B complained to HSBC. It concluded this was a civil matter and no refunds to Mr B
would be made. Unhappy with what HSBC said, Mrs B referred the complaint to this service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said there isnt evidence to show HSBC
failed in its obligations as it enacted the Banking Protocol by getting the Police involved.
And, it also offered Mrs B - as power of attorney - to remove Mr Bs access to his banking
facilities which she didnt do.
My provisional decision 
As Mrs B didnt agree with what our Investigator said, the matter was passed to me to 
decide. I sent both parties my provisional decision saying that I was not planning to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. For ease of reference, this is what I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I dont undervalue the impact
this matter has had on both Mr B and Mrs B, and I can understand that what Im planning to
say is going to disappoint them  so Ill explain why.
Its not disputed Mr B made the transactions himself. As he was authorised to act on the 
account at the time, the payments would be considered authorised. That means HSBC 
wouldnt generally be liable for refunding them.
So, in essence, I need to consider whether HSBC have failed to meet any of its obligations 
to Mr B  especially given the vulnerabilities he has and the information it had been given by
Mrs B.
HSBC say Mrs B wanted it to refuse Mr B the ability to withdraw money, but at the time Mr B 
seemed to be compos mentis. That is, he had full control of his own mind  or what is 
generally referred to as having mental capacity. HSBC say it wasnt given any evidence of a 
medical condition which showed Mr B didnt have mental capacity.
HSBCs branch staff say Mr B claimed Mrs B was unhappy with his new relationship with the
individual later established as a fraudster. And that they also heard him speak to Mrs B on
the phone asking her not to get involved with his personal life.
HSBC say it discussed the matter with Mrs B and explained she could have full control of 
Mr Bs account if she wanted. But Mrs B didnt want to do this as she wanted her father, 
Mr B, to lead an independent life.
HSBC say, at one point given the concerns raised by Mrs B, it invoked the Banking Protocol. 
There is an arrangement between banks and the Police called the Banking Protocol which 
means that when a bank is concerned or suspicious about an out of character transaction it 
can contact the Police who will speak to the customer.
HSBC say the Police confirmed Mr B knew what he was doing with his banking, and 
although his girlfriend was known to them, it was a personal matter.
Mrs B says her father was diagnosed with a medical condition that impacts his cognitive 
capability in 2018. And the possibility of Mr Bs mental capacity deteriorating in the future is 
what led her to getting power of attorney. She adds she registered power of attorney on 
Mr Bs HSBC account in early 2020 to see what was going on with his account as she 
suspected the new girlfriend was taking advantage of him.
Mrs B says that when the lasting power of attorney was set-up, she was told she couldnt 
use internet banking as it would affect Mr Bs access. She says, at the time, Mr B accused 
her of interfering with his affairs but couldnt remember making the cash withdrawals when 
asked.
Mrs B says she called Mr Bs doctor in February 2020 to discuss his mental capacity. Mrs B 
says once the fraudster was convicted, Mr Bs spending has become non-existent and
normal again.
Its clear Mr B has been the victim of a manipulative and likely engineered relationship here 
to deceive him of his money. But like I said earlier, I need to decide if I think HSBC have 
failed to meet its obligations  and if it acted fairly and reasonably, given the circumstances,
to protect him from financial harm.
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded HSBC took reasonable steps to try and protect Mr B 
based on the information it was given by Mrs B about what she thought was happening and
his vulnerabilities; and, from what is clearly, unusual banking activity for him.
I say that because HSBC questioned Mr B about the withdrawals he was making, made an 
assessment of whether he had mental capacity, and invoked the Banking Protocol by getting
the Police involved  who said Mr B was acting with capacity. It also acted outside of 
process in speaking to Mrs B on several occasions to discuss the withdrawals.
Importantly, HSBC also informed Mrs B she could take full control of the account and 
thereby stop Mr B having access to it. But she chose not to do that because as she wanted
Mr B to have financial independence. Given the seriousness of her concerns, Mrs B, as 
power of attorney, could have taken this action which would have stopped what she feared
was happening.It also appears Mrs B and Mr B were in dispute at the time given HSBCs staff recall Mr B 
arguing with her on the phone and Mrs Bs own admission that her father didnt want her 
interfering with his affairs.
Im satisfied HSBC didnt have information which showed Mr B didnt have capacity given 
Mrs B asked his doctor to assess this in February 2020, and that nothing was sent to it 
saying that.
Its very unfortunate Mrs Bs concerns that her father was being manipulated by someone 
hed entered a relationship with were later confirmed  and that they had taken substantive 
funds from him.
But, given that at the time of the transactions taking place HSBC had taken reasonable steps
to understand if Mr B appeared to have capacity, the Banking Protocol was invoked, and
made Mrs B aware she could take full control of the account  I cant see what more HSBC
could have done to protect Mr B from financial harm.
I gave both Mr B and HSBC a deadline to respond to my provisional decision. That deadline 
has now passed. HSBC have not responded. Mrs B has sent me an assessment of 
capacity document from their council. Mrs B has also made, in summary, the following key 
points: 
- HSBC had a duty of care to protect Mr B and it is hiding behind excuses by not 
accepting liability 
- They only called the Police once 
- HSBC should be held liable for any funds which left the account before the lasting 
power of attorney was added to it 
- HSBC didnt support Mrs B in restricting the amounts being withdrawn daily 
- Mrs B couldnt provide HSBC with a decision regards his mental capacity until 
May 2020 as the pandemic slowed down social services response time
I must now decide this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
In reaching this decision, Id like to assure Mr B and Mrs B once again that I dont 
undervalue in any way the impact this matter has had on them both. Ive also noted the 
strength of emotion around whats happened, so Ill explain why. 
Ive had a close look at the assessment for capacity document Mrs B has sent me. I note it 
concludes Mr B, on the balance of probability, lacks the capacity to make decisions in 
relation to managing his finances. The form is signed and authorised in late May 2020 by the 
appropriate council manager.  
That means this determination was made after the disputed transactions were withdrawn from Mr Bs account. So its not information HSBC would have had at the time to prevent 
Mr B from withdrawing the money he disputes.
I accept its possible the pandemic inhibited or slowed down Mrs Bs ability to get Mr Bs 
mental capacity assessed. But thats not something, to my mind, which meant HSBC failed 
in meeting its obligations. HSBC can only act on information it had available. It is of course 
unfortunate that any delay to the capacity assessment likely meant account withdrawals 
went on longer than they might otherwise have had.  
Mrs B says any transactions before the lasting power of attorney was added to the account 
should be refunded. I dont agree with this. Thats because when it was added, it didnt lead 
to anything different happening on the account that prevented the withdrawals carrying on.  
So it doesnt show HSBC should have done more, than it already did, do to protect Mr B. 
Mrs B says HSBC should have called the Police more than once. In other words, it should 
have invoked the Banking protocol again. I can understand why she says this, but I havent 
seen anything that would have meant the Police reaching a different outcome over the 
period the transactions cover. 
Lastly, Mrs B says HSBC should have done more than it did to help her restrict the daily 
withdrawal limits Mr B was making. But she was presented with the notion to solely take over 
the account  which she opted not to do. 
Ultimately, I have to ask myself if HSBC have failed in fulfilling its obligations. For the 
reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Im persuaded it didnt. 
To be clear, they are that at the time of the transactions taking place HSBC had taken 
reasonable steps to understand if Mr B appeared to have capacity, the Banking Protocol was 
invoked, and it had made Mrs B aware she could take full control of the account. I cant see 
what more HSBC could have done to protect Mr B from financial harm. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman