DRN-4012454
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly provided Mr H with and 
overdraft facility and allowed him to increase his limit from £300 to £4,000 over a short 
period of time. 
What happened
Mr H complained to Lloyds about its irresponsible overdraft lending. Lloyds upheld Mr Hs 
complaint and offered to settle it by:
Refunding all fees, charges and interest paid towards the overdraft facility from 26 
October 2018 when Mr H started using it amounting to £1,867.53; 
It would apply this refund towards Mr Hs outstanding overdraft debt; and 
Back date the default on his account to 26 January 2019.
One of our adjudicators looked at this and thought that what Lloyds had offered is in-line with 
what wed recommend and didnt think it needed to do anything more. Mr H disagreed he 
says this offer isnt to his benefit as he will still owe money, it was obvious to Lloyds he was 
in financial distress and he got no help from them. Mr H has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business provides a consumer with a credit facility which it should have realised 
was unaffordable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in 
now if they hadnt paid any interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally 
expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the point the 
lender ought to have realised it was unaffordable. And if those interest and charges were 
paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, Mr H has been left with an outstanding balance on his overdraft, once all 
adjustments have been made, and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
caused by his overdraft. So while Mr H has been left with a balance and he might be 
unhappy with this, Lloyds has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do something 
different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair 
and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr H says Lloyds should do something different here. He says what Lloyds has done isnt of 
benefit to him and it failed to support him when in financial distress and wants a full refund of 
the overdraft.
Ive thought about what Mr H has said. And what hes said is a reason for upholding his 
complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things right 
in cases such as his. All the interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added have 
been removed from what he now needs to pay. So what Mr H is left with to repay are the 
funds which he used and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and 
charges have left him with a debt that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Mr H spent the credit, I think its perfectly fair 
and reasonable to expect Mr H to repay these funds. And I dont think that Mr Hs 
unhappiness at having a balance to repay on his overdraft, even after his complaint has 
been upheld, is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already offered to do to put 
things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not 
persuaded further compensation is warranted, so Im requiring Lloyds to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman