DRN-3966517
The complaint
The estate of Mr P  represented by Ms A, Mr P and Mrs S - has complained that National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) did not allow funds to cover the cost of a headstone to be 
taken from the late Mr Ps account.
This led to Mrs S having to pay for the headstone costs from a personal loan.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they were unable to uphold the 
complaint. 
The estate of Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties that the executors of Mr Ps estate experienced. I 
appreciate that having to arrange the affairs of a deceased family member can be very 
difficult and upsetting.
In this case, one of the executors of the late Mr Ps estate  Mrs S, presented invoices to 
NatWest to be paid from the late Mr Ps account. I understand this was before Probate was 
granted, which meant that Mr Ps account was effectively frozen at the time. 
The invoices presented for payment were for funeral directors costs and headstone costs. In 
accordance with its bereavement processes, NatWest only allowed the funeral director costs 
to be paid for from the late Mr Ps account. Because NatWest would not allow the headstone 
costs to be taken directly from Mr Ps account at the time, Mrs S took out a personal loan to 
pay for the costs herself.
Mrs S has asked for compensation for this, and also asked the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to instruct NatWest to change its processes.
Should NatWest have allowed the headstone costs to be released from the account?
NatWest has provided evidence to show that its processes only allow for funeral director 
costs to be paid for out of a deceased persons account. 
This means all further funeral costs (such as paying for flowers, holding a wake etc) would 
essentially have to be paid for by the family of the deceased before Probate is granted. After 
Probate is granted, the costs could then (where applicable and subject to what the Will says) 
be reimbursed from the proceeds of the estate. 
Therefore, NatWest looks to have been following its bereavement processes correctly when 
it only agreed to pay the funds directly to the funeral directors. And NatWests processes are 
not particularly unusual. So, in the circumstances, whilst I understand Mrs Ss frustrations in 
having to cover the costs herself, I cant say that NatWest has done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly in not allowing the headstone costs to also be taken from the late Mr Ps account.
Changing NatWests processes
Mrs S has asked that our service instruct NatWest to change its policy, so that when other 
people are going through the same process, other funeral costs can be paid directly from a 
deceased persons account. 
However, our service is unable to do that. We are not the regulator, so I have no power to 
instruct any business, including NatWest, to change or improve their practices and 
processes.
Awarding compensation
Mrs S has also asked for compensation due to the impact this matter has had on her. 
I do appreciate that arranging the affairs of a family member who has passed away is not 
easy. And I understand why Mrs S was frustrated that the headstone costs could not be 
taken out of Mr Ps account when they needed to be paid.
However, this complaint is specifically that NatWest did not allow funds to be released from 
the late Mr Ps account when a representative of the late Mr P (Mrs S) wanted them to be. 
That means, for the purposes of this complaint, Mrs S (and the other executors) is acting in 
the capacity as a representative of the late Mr Ps estate. So, in this case the eligible 
complainant is the late Mr P i.e. his estate  not Mrs S or the other executors.
This is an important distinction to make, because we can only award compensation (if its 
warranted) for any distress and inconvenience that an eligible complainant experiences. But 
we cant generally make any awards of compensation for any distress or inconvenience 
experienced by a representative of an eligible complainant. 
So, in conclusion, I wouldnt be able to award any compensation for any distress or 
inconvenience experienced by Mrs S (or the other executors) in relation to this matter, as 
Mrs S is not an eligible complainant.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A, Mr P and 
Mrs S and the estate of Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman