DRN-3599952
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy that Wise Payments Limited wont refund her money she lost as a result of 
a fraud.
What happened
Ms J was contacted about a potential cryptocurrency investment opportunity, which she was 
eventually persuaded to invest in.
On 23 August 2021 Ms J set up a Wise account, and on the same day, transferred 
£3,423.31 to an account held with a third-party business: as instructed by the investment 
company contact. Unfortunately, this later transpired to be a fraud.
R, a limited company acting on behalf of Ms J, complained to Wise about the payment made 
as it felt Wise could have done more to protect Ms J from the fraud. However, after reviewing 
the circumstances of the complaint, Wise didnt agree. It pointed out that Ms J had 
authorised the payment and that its terms and conditions clearly state that it would not be 
liable for any loss beyond its control  such as cases of fraud.
Ms J remained unhappy with the outcome, so her complaint was referred to our service. 
After considering the evidence provided by both parties, the Investigator concluded that 
Wise hadnt made an error. Broadly, they pointed out that the payment wasnt out of 
character or usual considering it was the first payment on the account. They therefore didnt 
think Wise were unreasonable in not intervening in the payment.
R, on behalf of Ms J, disagreed with the Investigators assessment. It didnt agree that the 
account opening being the same day as the transaction detracted from the payment 
displaying characteristics of fraud. It felt that Wise did have an obligation to intervene, and 
had it done so, likely would have prevented the payment.
As R, on behalf of Ms J, disagreed, the complaint has now been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its excepted by both parties here that Ms J authorised the payment subject to this complaint. 
So, when taking into consideration the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms 
and conditions of the account, Ms J is presumed liable for the payment in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I also acknowledge the sometimes-difficult balance payment service providers have in 
fulfilling its obligation to process payments in line with its customers instruction against 
identifying, and intervening in, potentially fraudulent payments.
Here, Ms J opened her Wise account on the same day the fraudulent payment was made. 
And this payment was the first payment Ms J had carried out on her account. This meant 
that Wise had no previous history on Ms Js account that allowed it to assess if the payment 
was unusual or out of character in comparison.
R, on behalf of Ms J, argues that this shouldnt have precluded Wise from assessing the 
payment as at risk, as the payment was substantial and falls in line with known fraud 
patterns. But I dont agree. While I have no doubt the payment amount was substantial for 
Ms J, that wouldnt have been apparent to Wise at the time. There were no red flags to 
consider here as any payment Ms J would have made would have been to a new payee. 
And the amount couldnt be deemed as out of character as Ms J hadnt made any other 
payments prior to this one. It also held no information on its systems to suggest Ms J was 
otherwise at risk or vulnerable to fraud at the time.
I also disagree with R regarding its submission that the payment fell in line with known fraud 
patterns. I dont find it reasonable to expect a business to automatically treat all first 
payments made from an account as a potential risk where no other risk indicators exist. This 
is particularly so considering the number of payments a business processes on a daily basis.
For the above reasons, Im not persuaded Wise had made an error in not intervening in the 
payment.
Ive also considered if Wise took the appropriate action when it was made aware of the 
fraud.
Ms J reported the matter to Wise through her representative in February 2022: almost six-
months later. Wise did contact the receiving bank, but it didnt do this until eleven days later. 
While this is well beyond the time Id reasonably expect a business to attempt to recover the 
funds, I dont think this made a difference in the circumstances of Ms Js complaint.
It's common in cases such as this that fraudsters remove money from the receiving account 
at the earliest opportunity. Fraudsters are alive to the fact that once payment service 
providers have a fraud reported to them, the funds are recalled. This means that the 
fraudsters tend to remove the money from the receiving account to prevent the loss of their 
ill-gotten gains. As Ms J reported the matter almost six-months after the payment had taken place, I find it 
unlikely the funds would have still been available in the account.
Furthermore, the receiving bank refused to indemnify the funds anyway. And as Wise has no 
control over the receiving banks actions, it wouldnt have been able to force the recall of the 
funds anyway if theyd have still remained in the account.
For these reasons, I dont find Wise would have been successful in recovering Ms Js funds 
to her account, regardless of when it took action to recover them. It would therefore be 
unreasonable to expect Wise to refund Ms J on this basis.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman