DRN-4383940
The complaint
Miss T complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Miss T complains about the quality of a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander. The car was wrapped as part of the package included in her finance. Miss T says 
the wrap is faulty because it peels and bubbles.
There have been several attempts to repair the wrap, all of which have failed.
Miss T complained to Santander. In its final response, Santander said that the dealership 
had agreed to arrange repairs to resolve the issue. Santander apologised for the time it had 
taken to look into Miss Ts complaint and offered compensation of £250.
Miss T was unhappy about the way the repairs were handled. She provided a copy of an 
email in which the dealership proposed removing the wrap and refunding the cost of the 
vinyl. A report from a third party stated that the wrap had failed due to incorrect installation 
and quoted £2595 excluding VAT to replace the wrap. Miss T brought her complaint to this 
service.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I was satisfied that the wrap was included in 
the amount on the finance agreement. I said that a reasonable person would expect a brand 
new wrap to be of a high quality and free from minor defects and that this wasnt the case 
here. I said the third party report indicated that the wrap had been incorrectly installed and 
that despite attempts to repair it the only way to resolve the issue was to replace the wrap. 
I said that the fairest way to resolve Miss Ts complaint was for Santander to meet the costs 
of removing the existing wrap and replacing it with a new one. 
I also said that because Miss T would be without a car whilst her wrap was being replaced, 
Santander should refund her monthly payments pro rata for the period of time her car was in 
for rewrap, unless Miss T was provided with a courtesy car. I recognised that Miss T had 
been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of the issues with the wrap but 
explained that I thought that the £250 previously paid by Santander as compensation was 
fair and reasonable. But I said that because of the number of times Miss T had been 
backwards and forwards to the dealership, Santander should refund her a sum equivalent to 
two tanks of fuel.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise.
Santander didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Miss T responded and said she was worried that there might be damage to the bodywork of 
the car once the faulty wrap was removed. She wanted to know what would happen about 
that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Miss Ts concerns, but I dont have any evidence of the condition of the 
bodywork of the car before the wrap was applied so it would be very difficult to assess 
whether the removal of the faulty wrap had caused any damage, or whether that damage 
was pre-existing. I would also say that its the responsibility of whoever removes the faulty 
wrap to exercise reasonable care and skill when removing the faulty wrap and avoid 
scratching the paintwork.
In all other respects I havent changed my mind and my decision remains that same as set 
out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right, Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance 
must:
Arrange for the existing wrap to be removed and a new wrap fitted at no cost to Miss T
Refund Miss Ts monthly payment pro rata for the period her car is in for re-wrapping (unless 
she is provided with a free courtesy car)
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman