DRN-3208204
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his motor insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited as it 
declined his claim for theft and cancelled his policy on grounds of fraud.
What happened
Mr S reported his car stolen in September 2020. He told Admiral he still had all the original 
keys, which he sent to it. Admiral investigated the claim, including obtaining data from and a 
report on the keys Mr S had sent to it. The report concluded that neither of the keys Mr S 
had been provided had been the main key for the car, and it was unlikely the car could have 
been stolen without a key. So Admiral declined the claim and cancelled Mr Ss policy on 
grounds of fraud. Mr S complained, but Admiral wouldnt change its mind, so Mr S 
complained to us.
Our investigator felt Admiral had acted reasonably given the content of the expert report. So 
he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr S said he felt the outcome was unfair  he had no reason to lie and this would affect him 
for years to come. He said there must be a fault with the car and/or key hed been using 
before the theft and had given to Admiral, such that the key hadnt recorded his usage 
properly. And this shouldnt stop Admiral honouring his claim as there was no way he could 
have known this was occurring. His complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this is a difficult situation for Mr S, and that Admirals actions, along with my final 
decision, will have a continuing effect on him. But its my job to consider whether Admiral 
has acted fairly and reasonably given the policy terms and the evidence available to it. And 
with regret for the upset I know this will cause Mr S, I think it has. 
Mr Ss policy required him to remove keys from the car if its left unoccupied and said that if 
the car was left unlocked or unsecured any claim for theft wont be paid. So, in the 
circumstances here, if it seems most likely that Mr S left a key in his car at the time of the 
theft in September 2020, then any claim made would fail.
The policy also contains a fraud condition. So, for example, if Mr S tried to benefit from the 
policy, perhaps by making a claim which wasnt covered by the policy for some reason, then 
Admiral can decline the claim and cancel the policy. 
The expert report Admiral obtained on the keys Mr S had provided to it, shows that neither 
key was likely the main key used by Mr S. Mr S said he had only ever used the electronic 
start on the car, hed never inserted the stem of the key into the ignition shaft. The reports 
state that key 2, which Mr S had said was a spare he had never used, wasnt coded to the 
car, and so couldnt be used for electronic start. So this key likely can, effectively, be 
discounted  both parties seem satisfied it was never used, and any discrepancy or concern 
either party might otherwise have raised about it falls away.
The difficulty for Mr S comes with the other key, key 1. Mr S said he used this as his main 
key, and used it in September 2020 when driving the car to the car park where it was stolen 
from and locking it before leaving it there. But the expert report shows that this key hadnt 
been used to drive the car since before Mr S purchased it in 2017. Mr S said he only 
physically touched the key to lock and unlock the door and there must be an underlying fault 
with the car which meant the key didnt record that it had started the car between 2017 and 
the theft in 2020. But Mr S also reports that MOTs and servicing hadnt found any faults with 
the car in that time. And Admirals expert reports didnt note any fault with the key itself. Mr S 
hasnt provided any expert opinion to support his contention that a fault might have caused 
the key to malfunction in this way. So, it seems most likely to me, based on the available 
evidence, that the key Mr S submitted to Admiral as being the key used on the day of the 
theft, is unlikely to have been used since 2017. It follows that its unlikely this was the key 
Mr S had used to drive the car in September 2020.
The further difficulty for Mr S is that one of Admirals expert reports explains how the key and 
security system in the car work. The conclusion being its unlikely the car could have been 
stolen without a key being left in it. 
So I can understand the position Admiral took on this claim. In effect Mr S had said he used 
key 1 on the day of the theft, but this is unlikely to be the case given the expert evidence 
provided. And the expert evidence also shows the most likely method for the theft was that a 
key was in the car. Whilst Mr S says that is not the case, he hasnt provided any expert 
evidence of his own to refute Admirals findings. His word alone that the key he submitted 
was the key he had used, is insufficient in light of the expert evidence. So Admiral has 
concluded that Mr S hasnt been truthful with it about the keys  because, if he had been 
truthful, that maybe he had left the main key in the car, albeit inadvertently, his claim would 
fail. Which means, in Admirals eyes, Mr S has sought to gain a benefit from the policy he 
was not otherwise entitled to. Having seen and considered everything, I think Admiral has 
acted fairly and reasonably in reaching this conclusion.  
Id add, Im not saying I think Mr S acted fraudulently. Thats not for me to decide. Rather, as 
Ive explained, Ive considering whether, given the balance of the evidence available set 
against the policy terms, Admiral made a fair and reasonable decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman