DRN-3201673
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as F has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned
down its commercial buildings insurance claim.
Mr D, a director of F, has brought the complaint on Fs behalf.
For ease of reading, reference to AXA will include anything done by their loss adjusters.  
What happened
F has held a commercial all risks property insurance policy with AXA for a number of years.
In December 2019, F claimed on its policy after cracks appeared in its building.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to look into the claim further. The loss adjuster asked F for
further information to support its claim.
F provided AXA with a report from a structural engineering and surveying company (who Ill
refer to as B) which concluded that the damage was:
indicative/consistent with the outward movement of brickwork due to
inadequate lateral restraint
Bs report said that they were unable to determine the precise cause of the movement
without further investigation. However, they suggested the possibility of snapped brick
headers being used in the original construction and therefore the outer brick leaf not being
tied to the main structure.
AXA turned down the claim on the basis that the policy excluded damage:
to any PROPERTY caused by
a. its own faulty or defective design or materials
b. inherent vice latent defect gradual deterioration wear and tear
c. faulty or defective workmanship on the part of the Insured or any of their
employees but this shall not exclude subsequent DAMAGE which itself results
from a cause not otherwise excluded
F appointed someone who I will refer to as R (who is a loss assessor and surveyor) to help
deal with its claim. R challenged AXAs reasoning for turning down the claim. R said a
couldnt apply because the building had stood for around 120 years, so it wasnt reasonable
to suggest it was inadequately designed or built. R said that the damage had occurred
suddenly, and F hadnt altered the building, meaning that b and c didnt apply either.
AXA accepted that the damage hadnt been caused by faulty design or workmanship but
said that it appeared that the damage appeared to have been caused by wall ties snapping,
which is something that happens over time due to natural wear and tear rather than a
sudden event. They added that the photos of the building and the absence of damage to
the internal wall finishers also indicated that the damage had occurred over time. AXA
offered to consider any further information F put forward to demonstrate the cause of the
damage.
Unhappy with AXAs response, F brought its complaint to our service. It said the onus was
on AXA to show that an exclusion applied, and it didnt think AXA had done this. F also said
that AXA had accepted that their original reasons for turning down the claim werent correct
and they werent applying the principle of utmost good faith.
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that it
was likely that the damage had been caused by wear and tear with the wall ties failing over
time.
F provided another report from a different building surveyor, who Ill refer to as H. H agreed
with the points made by R but also said there wasnt any evidence that there were wall ties
in the building. H said that it would be extremely unlikely for a building of that age to have
been built with wall ties.
AXA reviewed this report but said that H hadnt provided any new evidence to contradict Bs
report. They said that, when reviewing photos of the damage, it was clear that the building
used to be aligned with the one next to it. They said that, in the period between the buildings
no longer being aligned and the claim occurring, the building had been painted, guttering
closed off and cement used to weather-proof the joint. So they still thought the damage had
occurred gradually. AXA did, however, accept that they should have been clearer in their
initial communication to F about why the claim had been declined.
F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the property was surveyed
and valued in 2010 and 2014 and photos from this time show that the buildings were
aligned. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 November 2021. In that decision I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
F has an all risks policy which covers any damage not excluded by the policy. It isnt
disputed that damage occurred. Its therefore left for me to decide whether AXA have acted
fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when relying on the
exclusions they have to turn down Fs claim.
I think it was unhelpful for AXA to have initially relied on exclusions that they later agreed
didnt apply. However, there now doesnt seem to be any dispute that a and c dont apply
so I will focus my decision on whether its fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on b, ie the
exclusion for gradual deterioration or wear and tear.
As F has shown that damage occurred, the burden of proof sits with AXA to demonstrate
that an exclusion applies. Having looked carefully at the evidence provided, I dont think it is
sufficient for AXA to fairly conclude that the damage occurred due to wear and tear or
gradual deterioration. Ill explain why.
Bs report only suggests the use of wall ties as a possibility and Hs report indicates that its
unlikely that the building would have been built with wall ties. So I dont think its reasonable
to conclude that that there is wear and tear on the basis of degraded wall ties.
While I accept that the photos indicate that the movement of the wall happened some timeago, I dont think this is enough to fairly conclude that it happened gradually, and therefore
for AXA to rely on the exclusion for gradual deterioration, without further investigation into
the reason the damage occurred.
In order to consider the claim fully, I think AXA should have appointed an expert to carry out
further investigation into the cause of the damage to decide if an exclusion applies.
To put things right, I intend to find that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is
for AXA to appoint a qualified surveyor or structural engineer to undertake further
investigation into how the damage occurred. AXA should then reconsider the claim using the
findings of the experts report. If F is unhappy with the decision made by AXA after it has
reconsidered the claim, that would need to be raised as a separate complaint.
I think that AXA initially being unclear in their reasoning for turning down the claim and for
relying on the exclusions they have without further investigation has caused F some
inconvenience. For example, it has had to appoint a loss adjuster to deal with the claim and
commission a second report from H. I therefore, think its fair and reasonable for AXA to pay
F £300 compensation for its inconvenience, as well as to reimburse F for the cost of Hs
report. F will need to provide evidence of the cost of this report to me before the final
decision.
F didnt provide any further comments in response to my provisional decision, although it 
provided an invoice for Hs report for £250 plus VAT. AXA didnt respond by the required 
date.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither F nor AXA have provided any further comments I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision. 
F has provided a copy of Hs invoice for £250 plus VAT. AXA should therefore reimburse F 
for this amount. If F is VAT registered AXA does not have to include the VAT in their 
payment.     
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Appoint a qualified surveyor or structural engineer to undertake further investigation
into how the damage occurred.
Reconsider the claim using the findings of the expert report alongside the information
previously provided.
Pay F £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Reimburse F for the cost of Hs report, if F is VAT registered AXA doesnt have to 
include the VAT in the payment. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Sarann TaylorOmbudsman