DRN-3825785
The complaint
Ms C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC have not refunded a series of fraudulent 
transactions on her savings account.  
What happened
Ms C says that her ex-husband was in charge of the finances when they were together as 
she was a full-time carer for their son. In November 2020, she contacted Barclays to 
withdraw some funds from her savings account for some building work. It was at that point 
that she realised she had significantly less funds in the savings account than expected. 
She was told of a standing order that was coming from her savings account to a joint 
account with her husband which she said she did not set up. She has since said she was 
unaware she had a joint account with her ex-husband and that he had fraudulently set this 
up without her consent and taken her life savings slowly, over the years. This was via 
standing orders from the savings account to the joint account as well as number of large 
transfers. She also explained her ex-husband had been physically and verbally abusive 
when she confronted him about this and that she also discovered financial abuse with other 
banks as well as Barclays. 
She did not contact Barclays again until around November 2021 and was shocked to find 
both the savings account and the joint account had not been blocked by Barclays and that 
further funds had been removed from the joint account by her ex-husband. She raised a 
complaint about this and Barclays responded explaining that as the funds had been moved 
from an account in her name to another account in her name, they wouldnt look to refund 
these. And as the joint account was also in her ex-husbands name, he had the right to 
withdraw the funds. Ms C referred the complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and explained that the first record of Ms C 
disputing the transactions was in November 2021, which was around 23 years after the 
issues began. And this was a long time not to have oversight of her accounts. They also said 
that Ms C did originally consent to the standing order being set up, but due to the passage of 
time there was nothing to show how it was amended in later years. In regards to the 
transfers made from the savings account, this would have followed a security procedure. 
Finally, they said that the transactions on the joint account could not be treated as fraudulent 
as both parties had the right to withdraw the funds. As a result, the Investigator did not 
uphold the complaint. 
Ms C disagreed with this. She said that 23 years was a long time not to have oversight of her 
account, but she was looking after her son full time and assumed her ex-husband had 
everything in order. And she did see some statements but thought these were edited so she 
was unaware anything was wrong. She reiterated that she was unaware there was a joint 
account and thought this was a sole account in her name only. She also explained that she 
was only wanting the transactions on the sole account to be investigated and not the joint 
account. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, based on the evidence available to me, I think it was reasonable for 
Barclays not to refund the transactions in questions. And I dont instruct them to take any 
further action on Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Firstly, I would like to thank Ms C for explaining the circumstances she found herself in with 
her ex-husband. I know that it is difficult to be open about such things, so I appreciate that 
shes done so in order to explain the background of the complaint.
Ms C has said that she set up an initial standing order of £315 in order to pay for her part of 
the mortgage and bills but did not amend this afterwards. Barclays has confirmed that the 
standing order was set up just a few days after the savings account was opened. 
Considering this, I dont think it is in doubt that Ms C consented to the standing order being 
set up in the first place. 
Ms C has provided contradicting testimony about where she thought the standing order was 
going to. In her first complaint letter to us she said that she set up the standing order to go to 
the joint account with her ex-partner in order to pay for her part of the mortgage. But she 
later said that she was unaware of the joint account and thinks she had a sole account that 
was changed to a joint account without her consent. Because of the contrasting versions of 
events, its difficult for me to safely rely on Ms Cs testimony alone, as I understand that 
memories can fade over time.
Ive therefore looked at other evidence that is available to me. Barclays has confirmed that 
the joint account was a joint account from at least December 1999, and this is as far back as 
the ledgers go. Theyve also provided contact notes and telephone call recordings from 
2020. In these, Ms C contacts Barclays and asks what the balance of the joint account is 
and moves funds between her savings account and the joint account. Looking at this, Ms C 
was aware of the existence of the joint account and did not appear to be surprised at its 
existence or ask for it to be restricted. On balance, I think its more likely Ms C was aware 
that she had a joint account with her ex-partner and that she set up the standing order to 
contribute to the shared bills. With this in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable that 
Barclays set up the standing order as requested.
The standing order changed values over the years with the last amendment occurring in 
2009, when it was reduced from £850 to £750. As this was around 14 years ago, I dont think 
it is unreasonable that Barclays no longer has any documentation showing how this was 
amended. As Im satisfied Ms C set up the standing order herself, I see no reason why 
Barclays would be suspicious of the amount of the standing order changing, especially when 
it is going to another account in Ms Cs name. Because of this, I dont think Barclays has 
made an error in the circumstances when allowing the value of the standing order to be 
changed. 
Ms C has referenced transfers that were made from the savings account to the joint account. 
She has said she thinks her ex-partner carried these out in a branch and has suggested an 
employee of the branch helped to facilitate the fraud. Looking at the statements, I can see 
there were a number of transactions made at a number of different branches. As these are 
from as early as 24 years ago, there is understandably no evidence relating to these anymore. But Im satisfied that there would have been security processes in place to check 
the account holders identity in order to make the transfers, and multiple branches would 
have all needed to carry these out. With this in mind, and with no evidence indicating 
otherwise, I think it is more likely that Barclays processed the transfers once it had followed 
the relevant security process and verified Ms Cs identity.
Barclays has provided phone call recordings from November 2020. In these, Ms C asks for 
the standing order of £750 to be cancelled and to transfer £13,000 from the joint account to 
the savings account, but is told she can only transfer £10,000. The details of these phone 
calls tie in with Ms Cs testimony about when she first discovered her ex-partner had 
accessed her savings account. In these phone calls, Ms C does not ask for an investigation 
to be launched or raise any fraud allegations against her husband. And there are no notes 
from other calls suggesting this happened at another time. Considering this, I dont think 
Barclays made an error when it didnt raise a fraud claim at that time and I therefore dont 
think they needed to place a block on any of her accounts. 
Ms C has said she thinks her ex-husband had signed up to mobile banking on her account. 
Ive not specifically seen evidence of this, However, if this is correct, he would only have 
been able to do so using Ms Cs security credentials, and there would have been no way for 
Barclays to know that it wasnt a legitimate request made by her.
Ms C has also mentioned a savings account that she thinks should be on her customer 
profile but isnt. This was mentioned during the investigation and unfortunately, I cannot see 
that Barclays has been given the opportunity to comment on this prior to the case being 
passed to me. Because of this, I wont be commenting on that aspect of the complaint, and 
this should be raised directly with Barclays first. 
Having carefully considered everything available to me, for the reasons set out above, I think 
it was reasonable that Barclays did not refund the transactions in question.   
My final decision
I do not direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to take any further action on Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman