DRN-2572292
The complaint
Mr B complains that his car was damaged while in the garage being repaired after it was 
involved in an accident, as arranged by his insurer, Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral). Admiral say the damage was pre-existing but Mr B disputes this and would like 
Admiral to pay for the damage to be repaired.
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged in an accident, so he made a claim on his insurance policy with 
Admiral who recovered his car and took it to a garage where it was repaired. When Mr B got 
his car back from the garage he says there was damage to the bodywork; a mark/chip to the 
offside door and a mark to the rear quarter panel. Mr B says neither were there before and 
he wants the damage to be covered by his insurance.
Mr B complained about the marks to Admiral and his car was taken back to the garage to be 
checked over. The repairer who worked on the car said the chip on the offside door is likely 
to have occurred when the door was hit against something and is unrelated to the accident 
or repair work. They also said the mark on the rear quarter panel is due to a mark under the 
lacquer and both occurred prior to the repair work being carried out. 
Engineers working for Admiral also assessed both the mark/chip to the offside door and the 
mark to the rear quarter panel as pre-existing. They said they were not defects and looked to 
be typical wear and tear damage. The engineer went on to say the marks were so minor 
they wouldnt have been recorded as part of a vehicle check sheet when the car was first 
brought in. He said the checks conducted before a car is taken into a garage are not meant 
to be forensic in nature as this wouldnt be economical and only clear and obvious issues are 
recorded. As these marks are so small compared to the other damage he wouldnt have 
expected them to be recorded.
As a goodwill gesture the garage attempted to improve the appearance of the mark to the 
rear quarter panel but said because the mark is under the lacquer it couldnt be completely 
buffed off.
Our investigator said they cannot definitively say one way or another whether the marks 
were caused during the repair process of if they were there beforehand. This is because 
there are no photographs of the specific areas of the car before it was repaired, and the 
marks are so small they cannot be seen in the photographs of the damage from the 
accident. However, they did consider the evidence Admiral relied upon to conclude the 
marks werent caused by the repair process and found this to be reasonable. In particular 
the explanation given for how Admiral would expect the chip to have occurred and the 
consideration that it is usual for a five-year-old car to have some degree of wear and tear. 
Mr B disagreed with this view saying he reported the marks and chip to the garage as soon 
as the car was received from the repairer, they initially agreed to repair the damage and the 
chip is too deep to be wear and tear. As such he requested the case be looked at by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator and Ive decided to not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill 
explain my reasons.
I understand the first time Mr B noticed the mark and chip may have been when he received 
his car back from the repairer. Under the circumstances it would be normal for him to 
examine his car more closely than he otherwise might. However, I also accept the evidence 
provided by Admiral, in particular that the chip on the door is likely to have come from the 
door being opened and knocking something, and that it would be very unusual for a five-
year-old car to have no wear and tear.
I have also examined the photographs of the car both before and after the repairs, but the 
marks are so small it is impossible to tell if they were there or not.
I can see why Mr B is disappointed, Admiral first said they would try to buff the mark out 
before realising it was under the lacquer, but I dont think this is an admission of 
responsibility. I think it was more likely a goodwill gesture as Admiral have maintained. 
I recognise this is likely to be unsatisfactory to Mr B and I can understand why he may be 
upset however there is no evidence for me to rely on that the chip and/or mark was caused 
by the repair work and I think on the balance of probability, that they were as a consequence 
of wear and tear.
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined above it is my final decision that Mr Bs complaint is not 
upheld.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman