DRN-3673209
The complaint
Mr V previously renewed his residential and buy to let (BTL) mortgages at the same time. 
But Barclays Bank UK PLCs mistake at his last renewal, in 2020, means they are now out of 
sync. Mr V complained that this delay meant his BTL mortgage cost much more to renew.
What happened
Mr V has both residential and BTL mortgages with Barclays. He was previously on a fixed 
interest rate deal on both, which he arranged with Barclays in 2020. Mr V said hed tried to 
renew both his BTL and residential mortgages at the same time in 2020, but Barclays 
caused delays with the renewal of his BTL mortgage, and it took a couple of months longer. 
Mr V said he only became aware of the impact of this in 2022, when he first realised the 
mortgages would renew out of sync. He said he could have got a deal at 1.88% interest, 
fixed for two years, at the point when he expected to be able to renew his BTL mortgage. But 
it couldnt be renewed until later. And in the intervening time, interest rates went up, so the 
best comparable deal Mr V could get was then 2.55%. Mr V said that meant hed ended up 
paying between £1,500 and £2,000 more, over the next two years, because of mistakes that 
Barclays made in 2020. He wanted Barclays to make up for that loss. 
Barclays accepted it had caused a delay with Mr Vs mortgage in 2020. It said it could see 
the mortgage advisor applied for a rate switch and a change in payment type when Mr V first 
submitted his application in 2020. Barclays said it accepted this had an impact on Mr V, and 
it also felt it hadnt handled his complaint well, so it wanted to pay £250 in compensation. But 
it wouldnt cover the extra cost of his mortgage. It said that interest rates do fluctuate.
Mr V asked us to look into this. He said that he just wanted the deal he wouldve been able 
to get in 2022, if Barclays hadnt made mistakes with his BTL renewal in 2020.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought the £250 Barclays 
had already paid Mr V was fair compensation for the delay caused. He thought Mr V was 
made aware in 2020 of when each of his new mortgage deals would expire. He didnt think 
that Barclays had to offer Mr V the lower BTL mortgage interest rate which was available at 
the time his residential mortgage expired.
Mr V said Barclays hadnt told him he wouldnt be able to renew at the same time in future. 
He also said Barclays had told him that any offer it made to him would have no effect on the 
outcome of the investigation and wouldnt even be considered by our service, so he was 
annoyed to find that we had taken the payment Barclays had made into account. Mr V said 
hed accepted a mortgage offer in February 2020, which had an end date of April 2022, but 
then Barclays reissued this in May 2020 after its delays. He wanted us to look at this again.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. And he said we do look at the compensation a bank 
offers to a customer for a mistake. We would consider whether it's fair in the circumstances. 
Our investigator also said that when Barclays issued a mortgage offer, it would expect Mr V 
to read that, and raise concerns then, if he had them. 
Mr V said that this all came down to the delay between February 2020, when he signed the 
first offer, and April or May 2020 when a second offer was issued. 
Our investigator still didnt change his mind. He said that Barclays had made the error, but 
Mr V still chose to sign a mortgage offer in May 2020. And when he did that, neither Mr V nor 
Barclays would've known what the interest rates would be in either April 2022 or July 2022 
or indeed any month in the future. So our investigator said he didnt think Barclays had to 
honour the original rate, just because the interest rates have risen between the few months 
when Mr Vs mortgage product would've originally ended (April 2022) and when it did end as 
per the terms of his mortgage offer (July 2022). So he didnt think Barclays had to honour the 
previous rate.
Our investigator also asked Barclays for sight of the first BTL offer issued in 2020, and 
Barclays said that it didnt think it had issued an offer then, just a declaration. But Mr V was 
adamant hed signed an offer.
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Id like to start by saying that I do understand why Mr V feels aggrieved. Barclays has 
accepted it delayed his mortgage in 2020. And he says if it hadnt done that, Mr V would 
have been able to get a better deal on his BTL mortgage, because renewal would have 
fallen at a time when interest rates were more favourable. 
But Im sorry to have to tell Mr V that I agree with our investigator, and I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. Thats because there are a considerable amount of other 
factors at work here. And, as our investigator said, neither Barclays nor Mr V could have 
predicted in early 2020, that there would be significant changes in interest rates, not in Mr 
Vs favour, falling exactly between when Mr V would otherwise have been able to renew, and 
when his BTL fixed rate deal actually ended. 
I know Mr V argues that if it hadnt been for Barclays mistake, he would have got a better 
deal. But I could equally say that if some of those other factors Ive referred to above had 
been different, Mr V would also have got a better deal. So, because the effect Mr V is 
complaining about happened quite a long time after the mistake he says caused it, and 
because there have been so many other factors at work between the two times, I dont think 
there is quite the clear and direct link between the two things, that Mr V suggests. So I dont 
think it is fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to pay what Mr V considers to be the additional 
costs of his 2022 BTL mortgage renewal. 
Although Barclays doesnt see the mistake in quite the same way Mr V does, because it 
says it has no record of the first offer he said he received, it has accepted that it has put Mr 
V to some inconvenience. I think thats right. And Barclays has also accepted it didnt resolve 
this complaint for him in a timely manner. For those reasons, I do think Barclays has to pay 
some compensation. But I understand it has already paid Mr V £250. My role here is to provide a resolution which I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case. And one of those circumstances is that Barclays has made a 
payment to Mr V. I know Mr V had understood I wouldnt take this into account, but I dont 
think it would be fair to ignore this payment. I do think that what Barclays has done already 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, so, although I know Mr V will be 
disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman