DRN-3468086
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) started to charge them for 
their Platinum packaged bank account, when theyd previously been able to have the 
account for free if they kept the balance above £4,000.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and he didnt think that Lloyds had acted 
unreasonably or unfairly by removing the fee-waiver from Mr and Mrs Fs account.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the matter to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case. And having weighed everything up, I dont 
think that what Lloyds did was unfair or unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs F insist that there never was a fee on the Platinum account, so they feel its 
unfair to start charging them for the Platinum account, especially as they have had the 
account for many years.
Based on what I know about Lloyds range of accounts, I can safely say that the Platinum 
account does (and always has) incurred a monthly fee. The Platinum account is one of 
Lloyds packaged accounts  which is an account that provides a range of insurance and 
non-insurance benefits in return for a monthly fee.
However, a feature of the account in the past has been a fee-waiver. A fee-waiver is a 
feature that was available on some of Lloyds packaged accounts, whereby the account 
holder does not have to pay the monthly fee for the account, providing they keep the balance 
above a certain amount. So in the case of the Platinum account, it was previously £3,500 
which was then increased to £4,000 around May 2004. The very fact that Mr and Mrs F 
themselves say that they would not be charged if they kept the balance above £4,000, only 
reinforces the point that they did in fact have a fee-waiver on their account.
To further reassure Mr and Mrs F that this is the case, Lloyds has provided evidence that 
shows Mr and Mrs F held the Platinum account since 19 January 2002. And a welcome pack 
for the Platinum account from around the time they upgraded their account says:
The benefits of the Platinum current account are yours for just £12 a month - but you could 
save substantially more than this, as you can see from the table. And if you keep at least 
£3,500 in your account we will waive the monthly fee altogether. So you could enjoy all these 
savings at no extra cost.
Like all of the other features that were included with the account, Lloyds is able to amend or 
remove the fee-waiver feature. But when making any change to the account (especially ones 
that are not in the account holders favour), Lloyds is required to give the account holder 
reasonable notice. This is so that they are able to consider their options.
In this case I can see that Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs F in June 2021 and explained that the 
fee-waiver was being removed from 1 September 2021. This letter explained that from 
September 2021, they would have to pay £21 per month to have the Platinum account. The 
letter then set out the options available to them, which were essentially to keep the account 
and pay the monthly fee, change to another account or close the account.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F are disappointed that they are no longer able to have the 
Platinum account for free. But overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds is able to make this change to 
the account - just like it was able to amend or remove all of the other features that were 
included with the account. 
Im also satisfied that Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F a reasonable amount of time in which to 
consider their options, before the fee-waiver was removed. As such, Im unable to say that 
Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman