DRN-3179652
The complaint
Mrs E complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a cancellation claim under 
her travel insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Mrs E held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The policy started in
June 2019 and also covered Mr E1, Mr E2 and Ms E. All references to Mrs E include all
those insured under the policy.
Mrs E was due to travel abroad, to a country which Ill call P, on 1 April 2020. Mrs Es flights
and accommodation had been booked separately.
On 16 March 2020, the government in P began to introduce precautionary measures in
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth
& Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO))
advised against all non-essential travel overseas.
On 18 March 2020, one of Mrs Es accommodation providers in P informed her the property
had been closed with immediate effect and would remain closed until after Mrs Es intended
date of return to the UK. On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists who were
abroad to return to the UK and the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on
movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. The government announcement included an
instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons. The following
day, 24 March 2020, Mrs Es airline told her that her flight had been cancelled.
Mrs E subsequently made a claim with Great Lakes for the non-refundable management
fees paid to one of her accommodation providers. Great Lakes initially said Mrs Es claim
wasnt covered under her policy because the FCDO hadnt advised against travel to P at the
time Mrs E was due to depart on her trip. Mrs E complained to Great Lakes and said the
information it had given her was incorrect, as there were government guidelines both in the 
UK and in P relating to travel at the time.
Great Lakes considered the claim again and said the reason for the cancellation of Mrs Es
holiday wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of her policy. Great Lakes said Mrs
Es policy also excluded claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any
country.
Unhappy, Mrs E brought her complaint to the attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He said, although Mrs Es policy didnt
provide cover for cancelling a holiday due to the FCDO advising against travel, the policy
also wouldnt have provided any cover if Mrs E had gone ahead and travelled against FCDO
advice. Our investigator said he didnt think it was fair or reasonable for Mrs E to be left in
such a position, so he asked Great Lakes to pay her claim.
Great Lakes didnt agree with our investigators opinion. In summary, it said:
this was a claim which deliberately wasnt priced for within Mrs Es insurance policy,
so Mrs E didnt pay a premium to cover this risk. Mrs Es policy is targeted towards
protecting events that can happen to individuals and not mass population events;
it would be unreasonable and irresponsible if its policies didnt include an exclusion
relating to claims for travelling against FCDO advice and the presence of such an
exclusion is in line with Financial Conduct Authority principles and regulations;
its policy wording in relation to claims for travelling against FCDO advice is clear and
unequivocal and Mrs E entered into a fair, reasonable and transparent contract with
sales literature outlining the key exclusions;
it isnt technically correct to say a policyholder who travels contrary to FCDO advice
would not be covered for any claim (even if that claim was unconnected to Covid-19);
the cause of Mrs Es claim wasnt the FCDO advice issued on 17 March 2020 but
was, instead, the lockdown announcement of 23 March 2020. Regulations against
all non-essential journeys were subsequently passed by Parliament on 26 March
2020. Great Lakes said it doesnt dispute that the cancellation of Mrs Es holiday was
reasonable, but that claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of
any country are specifically excluded under the policy.
Great Lakes subsequently sent us further submissions referring to case-law from a judgment
handed down by the Supreme Court in January 2021 which referred to mandatory directions
given by the Prime Minister in public announcements on 16 March 2020, 20 March 2020 and
23 March 2020 as having the force of law. Great Lakes therefore said that Mrs E was
compelled to remain at home by order of the Government on 16 March 2020 and that any
events subsequent to this are not relevant to her claim.
Mrs Es complaint was referred to me to decide and I made my provisional decision in 
October 2021. In it, I said: 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when reaching my provisional decision.
Ive had regard to all the submissions which Great Lakes has made in this case about the
relevant law. Ive also had regard to the provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
However, I dont intend to make any findings about how I think the law should be interpreted
 this isnt my role. Instead, my remit is to decide whether I think Great Lakes decision to
decline Mrs Es claim was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances, taking into account
all the relevant considerations.
Great Lakes originally declined Mrs Es claim because it said the FCDO wasnt advising
against travel to P. This wasnt correct. The FCDO advised against all non-essential
overseas travel (including to P) on 17 March 2020, and this advice remained in force over
the dates of Mrs Es planned trip. So, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Great Lakes to
refuse to pay Mrs Es claim for this reason.
However, Great Lakes subsequently said it didnt think Mrs Es claim was covered as thereason for the cancellation of her trip isnt listed as an insured event under her policy, and
also because the policy contains an exclusion relating to prohibitive regulations by the
government of any country.
I understand the situation which Mrs E found herself in was completely unprecedented and
outside of her control, but no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are
entitled to decide what level of risk they are prepared to accept in return for the premium
paid for a policy. Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mrs E are therefore limited
by the terms, conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mrs Es policy, at page 24 under the heading Section A  Cancellation or Curtailment
provides for Great Lakes to pay for a policyholders non-refundable costs which are not used
because of their inability to travel due to one of the following listed, insured reasons:
Unforeseen illness, injury or death of You, a Close Relative or any person with whom
You have arranged to travel or stay during the Trip.
You abandoning Your Trip following the cancellation of or a delay of more than 12
hours in the departure of Your outward international flight, sea-crossing, coach or
train journey, forming part of the booked Trips itinerary, as a result of Strike or
Industrial Action, adverse weather conditions, or the mechanical breakdown of, or
accident of, the aircraft, sea vessel coach or train.
You or any person with whom You plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or
being subpoenaed as a witness in a court of law (other than in a professional or
advisory capacity).
If You are made redundant and You qualify for redundancy payment under current
legislation.
Your Home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable
(including if Your presence is required by the Police in connection with such events),
up to 7 days before the commencement of Your Trip.
Your compulsory quarantine.
You or Your travelling companion having agreed leave subsequently cancelled by the 
emergency services or armed forces, for operational reasons
Mrs Es trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. This means her claim isnt
covered under the Cancellation or Curtailment section of her policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mrs Es insurance policy, but I dont think she
held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances she found herself in.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mrs Es policy says no cover is provided in the
event shed gone ahead and travelled against FCDO advice. He thought this left Mrs E in an
unfair position. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had
clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to
claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might
think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict application
of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for
me to ask Great Lakes to do so here.
This is because the Cancellation or Curtailment section of Mrs Es policy also says:What is not covered:
p) prohibitive regulations by the government of any country, or delay or amendment
of the booked Trip due to government action
I think its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty any one specific reason for Mrs Es claim. A
combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and government restrictions
both in P and in the UK  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on the cancellation
of the holiday.
But Mrs Es claim was made after UK restrictions on movement were announced, and these
restrictions remained in force until after Mrs E would have been due to return to the UK.
So, not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Mrs Es holiday not covered as listed,
insured events under her policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above would apply
to the circumstances of her claim anyway. Furthermore, management fees of the type Mrs E
is claiming for are also specifically excluded under her policy. This is a relatively common
exclusion found in many travel insurance policies on the market.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs E, but I dont think her claim is covered under the terms and
conditions of her policy and I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably by
declining her claim. So, overall, I dont currently intend to recommend that Great Lakes
should do anything more.
Great Lakes responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. 
Mrs E replied to say she was disappointed with my provisional decision and questioned why 
Great Lakes had initially given vastly different reasons as to why the claim wasnt payable. 
Mrs E asked for evidence that the prohibitive regulations exclusion was contained within her 
policy terms and conditions and was not an exclusion which was added at a later date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes originally declined this claim for a reason which I think was incorrect (the status 
and date of the FCDOs travel advice to P). I can understand why this mistake would have 
been frustrating for Mrs E but, in its final response letter dated 5 June 2020, Great Lakes 
gave what I think was the correct reason for declining the claim. The fact that Great Lakes 
originally made an error doesnt mean it would be fair or reasonable to ask it to pay a claim 
which otherwise isnt covered under Mrs Es policy. 
Mrs Es policy was purchased in June 2019. Great Lakes has provided policy terms and 
conditions dated September 2018, which it says are the ones applicable to Mrs Es claim. 
Our investigator has now provided Mrs E with extracts of these terms and conditions. 
The September 2018 version of the terms and conditions pre-dates the date on which Mrs 
Es policy was purchased, so I see no reason to question whether this version is the one 
which outlines the cover Mrs E held. Page 26 of these terms and conditions, under the 
headings Section A  Cancellation or Curtailment and What is not covered contains the 
prohibitive regulations exclusion which Great Lakes subsequently relied on as a reason for 
declining this claim. Overall, while Ive taken all of Mrs Es additional comments into account, this means I wont 
be changing my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E, Mr E, Mr E 
and Miss E to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman