DRN-3271496
The complaint
Mr C complains that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited (MAFS) recommended he 
transfer the benefits he held in two defined-benefit occupational pension schemes (DB 
schemes) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). The funds were subsequently 
invested in high-risk investments which Mr C says werent suitable for him.
What happened
Mr C was introduced to MAFS through an unregulated introducer, Mr B, in 2014 for pension 
transfer advice. Mr C says he met with Mr B on several occasions and only met with MAFSs 
adviser, Mr M, once.
In February 2015 Mr M produced a retirement planning report in which he recommended 
Mr C transfer the benefits held in his DB schemes to a SIPP. Mr M recommended that
the funds should be left in cash. He said another financial adviser (from a firm Ill refer to as 
F) would provide investment recommendations in line with Mr Cs attitude to risk, which had 
been assessed as balanced or medium.
Mr C accepted the recommendations and a total of £174,582.29 was transferred to the SIPP
in August 2015. MAFS took a fee of 3% of the total transfer value  £5,237.47. On 
26 August 2015, £100,100 of Mr Cs funds were invested with S, a discretionary fund 
manager. £100,000 was then invested in in Optima bonds.  A further £60,000 was invested 
in Optima bonds on 14 September 2015.
In late 2016 MAFS started looking into pension advice provided where Mr B had acted as
the introducer. And Mr M was dismissed as a result of regulatory breaches MAFS uncovered 
through its investigation. Soon after, S went into administration, meaning Mr Cs investments 
were inaccessible and were potentially worthless.
Mr C was informed and MAFS initiated a complaint on his behalf against the SIPP provider 
and F through our Service, and a claim against S through the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Mr Cs complaint against the SIPP provider is ongoing. 
Mr Cs complaint against F wasnt upheld as there was no evidence to suggest that Mr B had 
been acting on behalf of F and F had not given any investment recommendations. The 
FSCS rejected Mr Cs claim against S on the grounds that his complaint against the SIPP 
provider hadnt yet been resolved and it was possible he could recover his losses from it 
instead.
In 2021, Mr C complained about the role MAFS played in the advice he received. He thought 
Mr M had been negligent by allowing Mr B to be involved. He said Mr M had also advised 
him to invest in the Optima bonds and the advice was unsuitable.
MAFS said its advice to transfer Mr Cs DB schemes was suitable as it allowed him to 
improve on the death benefits available to his young dependent son - it said he had no need 
for the spouses pension provided by the DB schemes. MAFS also said it allowed Mr B to 
take a higher level of tax-free cash (TFC). And in any event, it hadnt given any advice on 
the investments and Mr Cs loss was wholly attributable to the advice given to him by Mr B.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld the complaint on the 
grounds that MAFS did not provide suitable advice as the regulator had made it clear that 
when giving advice on a pension transfer it needed to consider the investments intended to 
be held in the SIPP and it had failed to do so. Had MAFS known about the intended 
investments in the Optima bonds  as it should have as part of the advice it was giving  the 
investigator thought it should not have recommended that Mr C proceed with the transfer. 
This was because the investment strategy was too high risk for him. The investigator 
recommended MAFS compensate Mr C for the whole of his loss.
MAFS didnt agree. It maintained the advice was suitable. As no agreement could be 
reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, MAFS should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability of the transfer
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was provided.
Mr C was 43 at the time the advice was given to him but had turned 44 by the time the 
transfers went ahead. He had two DB schemes with his former employer, representing two 
concurrent periods of service. The DB scheme with the largest transfer value  DBS1  had 
a normal retirement age of 60 for the vast majority of the pension benefits. The DB scheme 
with the smaller transfer value  DBS2  had a normal retirement age of 65. Although Mr C 
told MAFS he would like to retire early if he could, he thought he was likely to retire at 66.
The investment return (critical yield) required to match DBS1 at age 60 was 8.5% per year if 
he took a full pension and 7.4% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. For DBS2, the critical 
yield to match the benefits provided by the scheme at age 65 was 6.5% per year if he took a 
full pension and 5.9% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. This compares with the 
discount rate of 5% per year for 16 years to retirement and 5.1% for 21 years to retirement. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr C 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB schemes only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield for 
DBS1 was 7.4%, and 5.9% for DBS2, I think Mr C was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than his DB schemes provided at retirement, as a result of 
investing in line with that attitude to risk.
MAFSs adviser appears to have acknowledged this because in the suitability report dated 
2 February 2015, Mr M said the critical yields for DBS1 might be deemed achievable if Mr C 
employed a medium-high investment strategy. However, having assessed Mr Cs attitude to 
risk as medium, I think Mr M ought to have known it wasnt appropriate for Mr C to take that 
level of risk with his only pensions  particularly as hed been out of work since being made 
redundant by his former employer. Both the discount rate and the regulators middle growth 
rate were 5%, so I dont think Mr C couldve reasonably expected higher growth than this. 
So, I think Mr M ought to have known that the critical yields were unlikely to be achieved, 
meaning Mr C was likely to be worse off in retirement.
The adviser added that because Mr C didnt intend to retire until age 66, he would be able to 
leave the funds invested for longer, which would lower the critical yields. But I dont see why 
Mr C wouldve deferred taking his pension until age 66, when it was payable at age 60, 
particularly if it meant he could retire earlier or potentially reduce his working hours. So, 
I dont think it was reasonable to downplay the significant critical yield the DBS1 funds 
needed to achieve.
With regard to DBS2, MAFS said that the critical yield was achievable if Mr C employed a 
medium risk investment strategy. But this was still higher than the discount rate and the 
middle growth rate, which I think were more accurate measures of what level of growth could 
reasonably be achieved at the time.
Overall, I think MAFS gave Mr C the impression that he could improve on the benefits he 
was entitled to under his DB schemes if he transferred to a SIPP. But I think that was very 
unlikely. MAFS ought to have made it clear to Mr C that transferring out of the DB schemes 
would likely lead to a lower pension at retirement.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB schemes wasnt in Mr Cs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as MAFS 
has argued in this case.  There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and TFC
MAFS said that Mr C wanted to maximise his TFC and he wanted flexibility. It said he didnt 
want an annuity.
I think most people when asked would choose flexibility, but I dont think that necessarily 
meant that Mr C actually needed flexibility at the point of advice. Mr C was over 10 years 
away from being able to access his pension and over 20 years away from his expected 
retirement age. So, I think it was too early for Mr C to say what his needs in retirement would 
be, and whether or not he would prefer a fixed income over flexibility. 
Furthermore, there was no real analysis of what Mr Cs income needs in retirement would be 
 the fact-find says Mr C wanted £24,000 per year but that hasnt been justified in relation to 
known expenses. That isnt surprising given his retirement was 20 years away, but it means 
that at the time of the advice there was no compelling reason, in my opinion, for Mr C to give 
up the guaranteed income his DB schemes provided. Under DBS1 Mr C would be entitled to £8,981.24 at age 60 and an extra £1,307.66 at age 65. Under DBS2 Mr C was entitled to 
£1,607.38 at age 65. All of the pension income would escalate in payment. So, this would go 
a significant way towards funding Mr Cs retirement. And I dont think Mr C shouldve been 
advised to give that up particularly when the income Mr C could generate from a personal 
pension was subject to investment risk and was likely to be less overall.
There is also no documented need as to why Mr C thought he would need an amount of 
TFC above that provided by his DB schemes, which was £58,090 at age 60 and £10,574 at 
age 65. For this reason, I dont think Mr C had a genuine need for flexibility in retirement. 
And if he did in fact think he needed flexibility, this couldve been explored closer to his 
retirement.
Death benefits
It appears that MAFSs main argument for recommending Mr C transfer his DB schemes to a 
SIPP was because he was single and so it said he had no need for the spouses pension 
provided by the DB schemes. It said Mr C wanted to be able to pass on his pension to his 
son, who was six at the time of the advice, as he had little life assurance cover.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP was likely an attractive feature to Mr C. But whilst I appreciate death benefits 
are important to consumers, and Mr C might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his 
DB schemes to a SIPP because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr C about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. And I dont think MAFS explored to what extent Mr C was prepared to accept a 
lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB schemes were seriously 
underplayed. Mr C was single  but at only 43 it was possible hed have a partner in the 
future who couldve benefitted from the 50% spouses pension attached to the DB schemes. 
If Mr C died before retirement a lump sum was also payable. Furthermore, both of the DB 
schemes provided for a dependents pension if Mr C was unmarried at the time of his death 
whether this was pre or post retirement. In addition, a childs pension was payable up to the 
age of 18 (or 23 if in full-time education or training)  the amount payable was dependent on 
whether spouses pension was paid. While MAFS referred to the spouses pension in the 
suitability report, it failed to mention that a dependents pension could be paid if Mr C wasnt 
married or that a childs pension was also payable.
This was a significant omission and in my view, meant that Mr C wasnt given an accurate 
picture of the death benefits his scheme provided. So, I dont think MAFS made the value of 
the benefits attached to the DB schemes clear enough to Mr C. These benefits were 
guaranteed and they escalated in payment  they were not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a SIPP was.
Furthermore, if Mr C genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his child, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think MAFS 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. Mr C was relatively young, so insurance ought to 
have been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be cheap 
to provide and wouldnt have risked Mr Cs own security in retirement.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.Control
I think Mr Cs desire to cut ties with his employer and to have control over his pension 
benefits was overstated. Mr C was not an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had 
an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, 
I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr C  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB schemes. Furthermore, MAFS noted that Mr Cs schemes 
were fully funded. So, he should have been reassured that his pensions were secure.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But MAFS wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C to transfer out of his DB schemes was 
suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, 
Mr C was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other 
particular reasons that would justify a transfer and outweigh this, particularly when Mr C was 
so far away from his retirement or being able to access any of the benefits.
So, I think MAFS shouldve advised Mr C to remain in his DB schemes. And Im satisfied that 
Mr C would have listened to that advice, despite the involvement of Mr B. I say this because 
Mr C was not an experienced investor and he was currently unemployed  these pensions 
accounted for all of his retirement provision. So, if MAFS had provided Mr C with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB schemes, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Investments made through S / Mr B
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB schemes wasnt 
suitable for Mr C, it follows that I dont necessarily need to consider the suitability of the 
investments that went on to be made. This is because Mr C should have been advised to 
remain in the DB schemes and I think he wouldve accepted that advice. So the investments 
in the Optima bonds would never have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Nevertheless, MAFS has argued that Mr C didn't suffer any loss until his funds were 
invested in an account with S, through which the Optima bonds were purchased. MAFS says 
its adviser had no involvement in this  it simply recommended Mr Cs funds be held in cash 
and understood that F would be advising on the investments. MAFS now knows that the 
investments were instead arranged by Mr B, the unregulated introducer. So, MAFS feels that 
it should not be held responsible for any of the loss associated with the investment in the 
Optima bonds.
However, I dont think MAFS fulfilled its obligations to Mr C under the FCAs rules when 
advising Mr C. At the time of the advice the regulator had made its view clear that it 
considered in order to suitably advise on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the 
suitability of the underlying investments to be held in it. The regulators position was evident 
in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
A further alert from the regulator in 2014 stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not 
suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
I acknowledge that the regulators statements in these alerts are not guidance or rules or 
standards in the sense that such requirements are specified by the regulator in its 
Handbook. Nonetheless, I think it is a relevant consideration when determining this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. Both alerts specifically referred to the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and 
COBS, which MAFS was subject to. And with reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a 
firm would fall short of its obligations under these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the 
intended investment strategy and that it wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like 
a SIPP, without doing so.
MAFS appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mr C it wasnt providing 
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted 
basis. But this wasnt right. Under COBS 2.1.2 MAFS couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its 
duty or liability to Mr C under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a 
limited retainer didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was 
suitable  again, this had to include consideration of how Mr Cs funds would be invested. 
I dont think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter.
So, notwithstanding my view that transferring Mr Cs DB schemes to a SIPP wasnt suitable 
for him, MAFS should not have advised Mr C to do so in any event without knowing the 
investments that F was proposing for him. As the regulator made clear, it could not give 
suitable advice without knowing how Mr Cs funds were to be invested.
Had MAFS made contact with F to gather details of the investment strategy it proposed for 
Mr C, it wouldve found out that F had not been engaged to provide investment advice to 
Mr C. And instead it was Mr B, which MAFS knew to be an unregulated introducer, who was 
going to be arranging the investments for Mr C. At this point MAFS wouldve known that 
Mr C was at risk of being given advice from an unregulated adviser and that he was 
vulnerable to unsuitable investments being made on his behalf.
Notwithstanding the above, Ive also seen clear evidence demonstrating that MAFS wasaware that an account with S had been set up before any investments were made. The SIPP 
application  which Mr M signed  confirmed that an account with S was to be set up for 
Mr C. So, I think the above evidence demonstrates the account with S was set up on 
MAFS's instruction. This was already a significant deviation from the advice given to Mr C by 
MAFS, as per the suitability report, which recommended the entirety of the funds should be 
retained in the SIPP cash account. So, this leads me to believe MAFSs adviser was aware 
of the types of investments that Mr C would be going on to make.
MAFS hasnt provided any evidence to show that Mr C instructed MAFS to open the account
with S. MAFS also denies that Mr M advised Mr C to do anything other than transfer the 
funds to the SIPP cash account. So, in the absence of another explanation, it seems likely to 
me that MAFS could have been acting on the instructions of Mr B at this point. Although 
I havent seen evidence in relation to Mr C, I understand it was not unusual practice for Mr B 
to provide investment instructions directly to MAFS for customers hed introduced to it. Given 
the account being opened with S went against MAFSs earlier advice, and Mr C says Mr B 
continued to be involved, I think this is the most likely explanation here.
I know that letters were sent to S, signed by Mr C, which gave instructions to purchase the 
Optima bonds in August 2015 and September 2015 and that this was mostly likely 
orchestrated by Mr B. But the only way this couldve actually happened was by MAFS 
facilitating it. As Ive set out in detail above, MAFS should not have advised Mr C to transfer 
his pensions to the SIPP. MAFS then instructed the SIPP provider to open the account with 
S, through which the investments in the Optima bonds were made. So, but for MAFS's 
involvement, the purchase of the bonds wouldnt have gone ahead.
And in any event, MAFS ought to have advised Mr C on the suitability of the proposed 
investments to be held in the SIPP  so, the whole transaction envisaged  at the outset. 
Had it understood that Optima bonds were the investments proposed for Mr C, I wouldve 
expected MAFS to have advised Mr C that it couldnt recommend he transfer away from his 
DB schemes in those circumstances as the investments were too high risk for him. And if 
MAFS had warned Mr C against investing in line with that proposal, I think its more likely 
than not that Mr C wouldve listened and not gone ahead with those investments.
It seems MAFS accepts that these investments werent suitable for Mr C  it simply argues 
that it could not have prevented them from being made. But as Ive explained, I think MAFSs 
unsuitable advice in respect of the pension transfers led to the investments being made. So 
it follows that I think holding MAFS fully responsible for the whole of Mr Cs loss represents 
fair compensation in this case. And Mr C should be compensated for his loss using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Im aware Mr C has made a claim about S to the FSCS. But as a scheme of last resort, its 
possible the FSCS wont pay out if a third party could also be held liable  and it appears 
that is the approach the FSCS has already taken here. So this means an apportionment of 
only part of the loss to MAFS could risk leaving Mr C out of pocket. But I think its important 
to point out that Im not saying MAFS is wholly responsible for the losses simply because S 
is now in liquidation. My starting point as to causation is that MAFS gave unsuitable advice 
and it is responsible for the losses Mr C suffered in transferring his existing pensions to the 
SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong in law or irrational but reflects 
the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position. With this in mind  and 
recognising also that Mr C wouldnt have lost out at all but for MAFSs failings and that 
MAFS benefitted financially from advising on this transaction  I think MAFS being 
responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for MAFSs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would 
have most likely remained in his DB schemes if suitable advice had been given.
MAFS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired or accessed his pension, and he has no plans to do so at 
present. So, compensation should be based on his scheme normal retirement ages of 60 
and 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
MAFS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date MAFS receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes MAFS to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mr C to the position he would have been in but for MAFSs actions. It 
seems likely that some or all of Mr Cs investments in the SIPP are illiquid, meaning they 
cant be readily sold on the open market. If this is the case it can be complicated to establish 
their value.
To calculate the compensation in this event, MAFS should agree an amount with the SIPP 
provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership of the investments.
If MAFS is unable to buy the investments, they should give it a nil value for the purposes of 
calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should include 
anything MAFS has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the 
SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, MAFS may ask Mr C to provide an undertaking to account to it for the 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment in future. That undertaking 
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. MAFS will need to 
meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If MAFS asks Mr C to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
In order for the SIPP to be closed (should Mr C wish to move his investment portfolio) and 
further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments need to be removed from the SIPP. Ive 
set out above how this might be achieved by MAFS taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr C can discuss with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take. Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that MAFS pay Mr C an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
MAFS pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should
be calculated as set out above.
My decision is that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited should pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 (including distress or
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£160,000, I recommend that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited pays Mr C the balance
plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
If Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited does not pay the recommended amount, then any
investment currently illiquid should be retained by Mr C. This is until any future benefit that
he may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Martin Aitken
Financial Services Limited (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as
set out above.
Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited may request an undertaking from Mr C that either
he repays to Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited any amount Mr C may receive from 
the portfolio thereafter, or if possible transfers the investment to MAFS at that point.
Mr C should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman