DRN-3365593
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL)
reduced the limit on its charge card resulting in financial problems and a default.
What happened
E says that it was encouraged to use the card to support the cashflow for its business. It is
unhappy that in November 2019 a spending limit of £9,800 was applied. This was much
less than the balance on the account of £18,844 at the end of November 2019. And Amex
wanted the full balance to be repaid and wouldnt deal with it reasonably. The account was
defaulted and passed to a collection agency. E says that Amex hasnt provided transcripts of
calls that would show Amex had dealt with it inconsistently.
Amex said that it hadnt made a mistake and wouldnt be removing any default. It said that it
reviewed accounts on a regular basis. And on 10 November 2019 it had applied a global
limit of £9,800 and written to E about this. It said that when it decided on the limit it took into
account the payments and spending history, Es level of indebtedness to Amex and any
other creditors and financial information in a credit report. The terms and conditions allowed
it to apply a spend limit at any time. The card was cancelled on 24 March 2020 after three
months of non-payment and following letters demanding payment. It was also able under the
terms and conditions to transfer or assign the agreement to a third party and this outside
party managed the outstanding balance.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She noted that E had
applied for the charge card in April 2019. Unlike a credit card, the balance on a charge card
had to be repaid in full following each monthly statement. Amex had carried out reviews of
the card in September and November 2019. Amex was correct when it referred to the terms
and conditions which allowed it to set a spending limit. E had appealed the decision and it
had reviewed the financial information it provided but this wasnt sufficient for any change to
the limit to be made.
E didnt repay the balance on its October 2019 statement due in November 2019. The
balance became overdue and Amex wrote to E in December 2019 saying that a temporary
hold had been applied to the account. And then in January 2020 sent a notice of default and
then a formal demand. These werent satisfied, and the account was passed to an outside
party. She referred to the terms and conditions of the account and said that Amex was
entitled to take this action and end the agreement where there was a repeated failure to pay
the total account balance and to operate within any spending limit. It said that the default
reflected the account history. It had also said that it had provided E with a response to a
subject access request in March 2020 after it had received proof of identification.
E didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It said that it had been advised,
encouraged and rewarded for an overreliance on the card for company cashflow. The
annualised turnover of spend on the card was over ninety percent of the company turnover
and this was irresponsible.
In the same week the limit was applied E had lost a five-figure sum to fraud leaving no
financial buffer. E had a choice of either paying the balance and ceasing to trade or
defaulting the account and continuing to trade. It said that Amex must have known the
impact and that the default was avoidable. Amex never provided details of a review in
September 2019 or of the limit. When the card stopped working the director called every day
for a week to try and find out what was happening. It said no letters were received. Although
Amex had now provided transcripts of some calls these were redacted and didnt include the
period from May to September 2019 as well as the multiple calls in November 2019.
Amex hadnt provided it with critical evidence about the management of the account from
opening to closing. And of how it increased monthly spend limits. E said that there were
fundamental problems with the way the card operated especially for small businesses and its
approach was dangerous and unacceptable. It wanted compensation for the financial and
emotional trauma caused and the issues uncovered. This had affected it through the
pandemic and limited its access to finance.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 14 February 2022. I said that I wasnt 
intending to uphold it, but I wanted to explain my reasons why. I set out below what I said.
Id looked closely at any case notes, the account statements, the letters sent by Amex to E
and the comments and submissions by E. I understood the points that E is making, and I
needed to decide whether Amex made any mistake or acted unreasonably.
Our investigator has set out that a key feature of the charge card was that E had to repay the
previous statement balance in full each month.
I set out below a summary of payments into and out of the account at several statement 
dates:
All figures to nearest pound and rounded  any credits to the account are shown in 
brackets.
As shown in the table above E did credit at least the previous statement balance every
month until November 2019. It was clearly paying in more that it owed and using this to free
up additional spending power. For example, in the statement month of October 2019 it spent
considerably more than the closing balance. In each of months August, September, and
October 2019 the closing balance was around £15,000.
In November 2019 it didnt pay the previous balance. And in fact, of the £7,657 creditedStatement 
monthPrevious 
balance £Payments 
credited £Spending £ Closing balance
£
July 2019 2,156 (11,717) 15,845 6,284
August 2019 6,284 (8,092) 16,971 15,164
September 2019 15,164 (15,572) 15,722 15,313
October 2019 15,313 (21,035) 20,707 14,985
November 2019 14,985 (7,657) 11,504 18,832
December 2019 18,832 0 12 18,844some £2,237 was refunded at Es request after the limit was imposed. This credit is included
in the spending column. If this is deducted the true new spending for the month was £9,266.
The limit was applied to the account on 10 November 2019 and so E was unable to make
any spending after that. Id seen a copy of a letter Amex sent about this and I couldnt 
resolve why as E says it wasnt received. E also as I said didnt repay the previous balance 
and requested some of the payments already made to be refunded. This in my view was the
reason why the balance was so far over the spending limit at the end of the month.
E explains that it relied on trading to support payments into the account. It says that when
the limit was applied it was unable to trade further and so didnt make any more payments to
the account.
I could see from the contact notes provided by Amex that E did speak to it about the 
spending ability on the account in the months before November 2019. And from this E knew 
that if it repaid more to the account this might free up further spending. E also knew that at 
times it ran up against its spending capacity and was directed to use the spending power 
calculator online. I could also see that Amex did review the account during the period using 
its own criteria and risk assessment approach.
Our investigator has already explained that Amexs actions were in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the account. I could appreciate that for E the application of a 
spending limit in the middle of the month was difficult. It was relying on further trading 
between 10 November 2019 and 24 November 2019 (the deadline for making payment of 
the prior statement balance) to allow for further credits. It also expected those payments to 
generate further spending capacity as they had in October 2019.
my assessment
I said I didnt have a basis to find that Amex wasnt reasonably able to apply a spending
limit informed by its own risk assessment. Even E accepts that what it had been doing on the
account was risky albeit with hindsight. And had E made the required payment in November
2019 it wouldnt have ended the month over that spending limit. Whilst I understood E was
relying on this account for cashflow - rather it seems than any other source - I couldnt see 
that was guaranteed. Given what it said about a fraud loss at the time it was in wider 
financial problems. And I knew that Amex also reviewed other financial information E 
provided by 16 November 2019 but decided that it couldnt support any change.
I saw no reason to think that the need to repay the full balance each month wasnt clearly
apparent to E. I also thought it was reasonably aware of the way it was using the account 
and that it was actively trying to increase its spending power to help its cashflow. I saw no
information that this was in any way guaranteed or that E didnt know what it was doing. I
thought that there were significant risks here from any interruption in cashflow, or if the
spending power was reduced. I saw no basis to think that Amex made any guarantees that
its support would continue and by the very nature of the account this was on a month to
month basis. E was also reasonably expected to repay the previous balance and it didnt do
so. It has explained that it didnt do that because it had to prioritise business trading and had
a loss. And so, I didnt find that Amex has acted unreasonably in taking steps to pursue
repayment and passing this debt to a third party when that balance remained outstanding. I
thought any reporting about Es payment history would fairly reflect this.
I said I was only looking at what happened to E here. I appreciated that the director will be 
very disappointed when I say that for the reasons Id given I didnt intend to require Amex to 
take any further action.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amex said it didnt have any further comments to add.
The director of E said that with regret he didnt have anything else to say on its behalf which 
would change the outcome.
That being the case I see no reason to depart from the conclusions of my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman