DRN-1228574
The complaint
Mr S complains Ultimate Insurance Solutions Limited (UISL) has automatically renewed 
his pet insurance policies despite him asking it not to.
What happened
Some time ago, Mr S took out two pet insurance policies through an insurance provider 
which I'll refer to as P. When P decided it was no longer going to offer pet insurance, it let its 
customers know that it had arranged for another provider, UISL, to contact them to offer a 
quote for new policies. The letter it sent Mr S also asked him to check it had quoted the 
correct email address as this was the address UISL would use to correspond with him.
A little after receiving this notification, Mr S says he phoned UISL to let it know he no longer 
required the insurance as he was going to be putting money aside to cover vet bills rather 
than continuing to pay insurance premiums. 
Some time after, Mr S became aware he was still paying premiums for the insurance 
policies, and so he got in contact with UISL to complain. It said it had no record of him 
asking to cancel the policies and, in the absence of instructions to the contrary, it had 
renewed the policy both in 2018 and in 2019 to ensure Mr S's pets remained covered. So it 
wasn't prepared to offer a refund.
Mr S wasn't happy with this and raised the complaint with this service. Our investigator 
considered what the parties had said and didn't uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Mr S 
had been advised what he needed to do if he didn't want to proceed with the new 
policies and there was no evidence he'd done this.  He was also satisfied the renewal 
notices had been sent to the email address provided by Mr S and there was evidence these 
had been received and opened so Mr S had been informed about the policies being 
renewed.
Mr S remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I've reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. I'll explain my reasoning.
My role at this service is to resolve complaints quickly and with minimal formality. Where the 
evidence is not conclusive, as is the case here, I'll reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities, that is to say, what I think is more likely to have happened, while keeping in 
mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
I've seen the letter from November 2017 that was sent by P explaining it was withdrawing 
from the pet insurance market and UISL was going to take over the policy. It was sent to the same address as Mr S provided for correspondence on this complaint and I'm therefore 
satisfied it was addressed correctly.
The letter explained that Mr S should phone UISL or email to let it know if he wished to 
cancel the policy. Mr S says he phoned to do this but UISL has no record of his request. It 
has provided evidence to show it searched its records from early November 2017 to the end 
of January 2018 - covering the time Mr S said he phoned - and there's no record of a 
call from Mr S's number.
Our investigator suggested Mr S could provide UISL with details of any other number he 
may have phoned from so it could re-check for calls but I've not seen anything to show he 
did this. Subsequently, Mr S  said he may have phoned the previous provider rather than 
UISL.
As it had no record of Mr S making contact, UISL went ahead with the policies and 
emailed Mr S the new policy details to the address it had on file - the same address that was 
quoted in P's letter in November. UISL has provided evidence to show the email was 
received and opened. I think this should have acted as a prompt to Mr S that UISL hadn't 
cancelled the policies - as he said he'd asked it to do - and it would have given him the 
opportunity to address the issue long before he eventually did.
During our investigation, UISL said if Mr S could show he'd put money aside to cover vet 
bills instead of paying for the insurance, it would consider refunding the premiums. While Mr 
S provided a statement showing money paid into his bank account, I'm not persuaded 
there's enough for me to conclude this money specifically related to this purpose.
Overall, I'm satisfied UISL has provided clear information to Mr S. On the balance of 
probabilities I'm not persuaded Mr S gave instructions to UISL to cancel the policies. So, I 
don't think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask it to refund the premiums. In 
summary, I won't be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman