DRN-3594478
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard gave him incorrect 
information about a credit balance refund.
What happened
Mr G says he bought an item using his Barclaycard account. He says the item was faulty 
and received a refund. Mr G asked Barclaycard if he could have the refund credit paid to him 
and was told he could. But he says he was later told that information was incorrect as his 
account had a balance owed. Mr G says he could have used the refunded money but was 
unable to do so. He also says Barclaycard failed to log a complaint and failed to comply with 
an information request.
Barclaycard accepts it made mistakes and accepts what Mr G says. It says it didnt raise a 
complaint or process the information request and accepts providing Mr G with incorrect 
information. Barclaycard has paid £75 compensation but says it cant refund a credit when 
an account is in debit in line with account terms and conditions.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the impact of the failure to register a complaint or information request was relatively 
minimal. And that the compensation was appropriate for the mistakes. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard had acted in line with account terms and conditions by not being able to 
refund the money.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and says how can he be expected to know the terms and 
conditions when Barclaycard didnt. He accepts there was no other option but to refund the 
money to his Barclaycard account and says he was offered a further £75 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has made an appropriate 
compensation offer and has fairly apologised for its mistakes.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr G would have agreed to 
when the account was first open. Those terms and conditions explain how a payment into 
the account as here is allocated. So, it follows that I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake 
or acted unfairly by applying the refund to the outstanding balance Mr G owed it. And I dont 
think Barclaycard made a mistake by refusing to transfer the refunded money out of the 
credit card account as Mr G would have liked.
There is no doubt here that Barclaycard made a number of mistakes. I dont think the failure 
to register the complaint or process the information request had any significant impact on Mr 
G as the complaint was registered and Mr G said he no longer wished to pursue the 
information request.
The main part of Mr Gs complaint is the incorrect information he was given by Barclaycard. I 
have no doubt Mr G was caused frustration and inconvenience by that mistake. And I share 
his view that Barclaycard ought to have been aware of the correct position. But I cant see 
what Mr G could have done differently even if he had been given the correct advice. Im 
satisfied that the only way Mr G could receive the refund was via the Barclaycard account he 
used to pay for it in the first place. So, I dont think the outcome could have been any 
different here even if the correct advice was given.
The only issue for me to consider if the compensation level. I dont think Mr G suffered any 
financial loss and have made clear I cant see how he could have received the refund by any 
other means. I accept Mr G was caused inconvenience but think the compensation paid is 
fair and reasonable. I appreciate Mr G says he was offered a further £75 compensation by 
Barclaycard, but I have not seen any record of such an offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman