DRN-3683534
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage under his landlords property insurance policy.
What happened
A garden wall collapsed at a property Mr J owned. He contacted Covea to make a claim. 
Covea asked Mr J to send photos of the damage and to provide quotes for the work. There 
were delays providing these. Following receipt of this information, Covea sent a surveyor, 
which was about five months after the damage happened. Covea then declined the claim 
because the surveyor had found issues with the condition of the wall, including that it leaned, 
had missing mortar and had foliage growth it thought had affected the walls condition.
When Mr J complained, Covea said there had been a storm, but the surveyor had noted 
various issues with the condition of the wall. It said no insurance policy covered every 
eventuality and it had applied a general exclusion for wear and tear.
So, Mr J complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it 
was reasonable for Covea to rely on its surveyors findings that there were pre-existing 
issues with the wall.
As Mr J didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Covea told Mr J that a storm was classed as winds more than 47 miles per hour and said the 
records supported that a storm had taken place. So, it said it didnt dispute there was a 
storm. Ive looked at weather reports and saw windspeeds that would be considered storm 
speed. I also think, in some circumstances, storm conditions could cause a wall to collapse. 
So, I think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question on the main cause of the damage. The surveyor 
said the wall was over 100 years old and that it had substantial vegetation growing on and 
around it. He also noted the wall twisting and leaning, bricks coming loose from the mortar 
and the wall being too high, with no pillars.
The report contained some photos and Covea also provided this service with additional 
photos from the surveyor, as well as some photos I understand to have been taken by Mr J. 
Having considered these and the surveyors findings, I think these were consistent with the 
issues highlighted by the surveyor. Im aware Mr J was concerned that Covea seemed to 
rely on an online photo of a wall that actually belonged to a neighbour. However, Covea said 
it didnt rely on that photo to make its decision. Ive no reason to doubt this.
Mr J was also concerned that the surveyor first visited five months after the damage 
happened. He said the wall condition would have deteriorated and the foliage would also 
have grown during that time. Covea said it wouldnt automatically send a surveyor. It asked 
Mr J to provide photos and quotes so it could consider the claim further and it was only after 
these were received that it decided to send a surveyor. Covea wasnt required to send a 
surveyor straightaway. I think the information it requested to consider the claim was 
reasonable. Its my understanding that it was difficult for Mr J to get quotes and that this 
contributed to the delays in sending a surveyor. Covea seems to have acknowledged that 
policyholders were sometimes finding it difficult to get quotes. But this didnt mean Covea 
needed to send a surveyor before these were received.
Ive also considered whether the five-month delay was likely to have affected what the 
surveyor found. I can understand Mr Js concern that the wall would have deteriorated 
further and the foliage would have grown more. However, Covea has pointed to the extent of 
the foliage and the multiple issues identified with the structure of the wall. In the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded these were the result of the delay, even if the issues got 
worse during that time. 
I think it was fair for Covea to decide the issues with the wall were pre-existing rather than a 
result of the storm. Covea applied an exclusion for wear and tear, which meant it didnt need 
to deal with the claim. Having looked at the circumstances of this claim, I think it was 
reasonable for Covea to decline it. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Covea 
to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman