DRN-2697239
The complaint
Ms W and Mr W complain about action National Westminster Bank Plc took once part of 
their interest only mortgage had reached the end of its term.
What happened
Ms W and Mr W borrowed around £470,000 in January 2010 over a term of 13 years, ending 
in 2023. Later that year they borrowed a further £100,000, this time over three years, though 
the term on this part of the borrowing was later extended to January 2018.
Ms W and Mr W therefore had a mortgage with two tranches of borrowing, both on interest 
only terms:
£470,000 over 13 years, ending in 2023; and
£100,000 over 8 years, ending in 2018.
When the term of the second part ended in 2018, NatWest asked Ms W and Mr W to repay 
it. When they didnt do so immediately, NatWest passed their entire mortgage to its 
collections department.
This also meant that the mortgage then reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR). Ms W 
and Mr W previously had fixed rates on each part of the mortgage. The fixed rate on the 
second part ended when the term of that part ended, in January 2018.The fixed rate on the 
first part ended in November 2018. NatWest would not let Ms W and Mr W access new fixed 
rates  on the second part because the term had ended, and on the first part because their 
mortgage was being managed by its collections department pending repayment of the 
second part. However, it said Ms W and Mr W could get a new rate on the first part once the 
second part was repaid.
Ms W and Mr W explained to NatWest that they had borrowed the £100,000 to give to their 
son to finance a house building project. The build had been delayed, but was due to be 
completed in August 2019. They said their son had agreed in principle a mortgage of 
£200,000 on the property, which would allow him to repay his parents and Ms W and Mr W 
in turn to repay NatWest. They said they didnt think it fair that in the meantime they were 
prevented from taking a new interest rate on the first part of the mortgage  which meant 
their repayments had increased from the old fixed rate of 2.59% to NatWests SVR of 4.24%. 
Ms W and Mr W say NatWest was unsympathetic and unhelpful. It wouldnt agree to wait 
until August 2019 for repayment. Its collections department sent threatening and intimidating 
letters and threatened them with legal action. Because of this, and the increased monthly 
payments, Mr and Mrs Ws son repaid them early  meaning he couldnt complete his own 
building project or move into the property, and had to spend more on rent. Sub-account two 
was paid back in July 2019.
Ms W and Mr W also separated in 2017 and Mr W discussed with NatWest the possibility of 
taking the mortgage over on his own. But instead sub-account one was paid back in 
December 2019.
Ms W and Mr W complained. They said they wanted NatWest to repay them the interest they 
believed they had been overcharged, and compensate their son for the inconvenience of not 
being able to complete his project and the extra expense of living in rented accommodation. 
NatWest offered Ms W and Mr W £100 compensation for poor service, in that it didnt send 
out a letter it promised it would setting out that they would be entitled to a new rate on the 
first part once the second part was repaid and sent a redemption statement for the whole 
mortgage rather than just sub-account two. But it otherwise didnt uphold their complaint. 
Ms W and Mr W complained to us, with the complaint being led by Mr W. He said that he 
considered there to be two separate mortgages, since they were for different amounts, 
borrowed at different times with different interest rates, and had separate account numbers. 
He therefore didnt consider it fair that the first part was also placed with collections, 
preventing them taking a new interest rate from November 2018.
I issued a provisional decision so I could set out my thinking to the parties. I said:
I dont agree with Mr W that these are two separate mortgages  they are two sub-
accounts of one mortgage. There was one single charge over the property, securing 
both tranches of borrowing.
However, I dont think NatWest has acted fairly in this case. Although this was all part 
of one mortgage, there were two separate tranches of borrowing with different 
amounts, interest rates and expiry dates.
When the interest rate on the larger amount expired, in November 2018, NatWest 
wouldnt let Ms W and Mr W take a new interest rate because the term had expired 
on the second part.
NatWest treated the whole mortgage as in breach of the terms and conditions, and 
treated the whole mortgage as repayable at that point. For example, in April 2019 it 
wrote to them to demand repayment of the whole sum  not just the expired part. But 
that wasnt right; only the smaller second part of the loan was repayable at that point.
Mr W spoke to NatWest on several occasions to try to come to an arrangement. He 
asked for repayment of the second part to be deferred to August, when his son would 
be able to repay his parents, or to match the end of the term on the first part. He also 
asked for the mortgage to be moved to his joint name.
Things were complicated in this case by the divorce between Ms W and Mr W, and 
there was a period when it seems it wasnt clear what the final settlement between 
them was  and, in particular, whether the property would need to be sold. However, 
it seems that by early 2019 it had been agreed that Mr W would buy out Ms Ws 
share of the property and try to take the mortgage into his sole name.
When it considered the change of borrower application in April 2019, NatWest wasnt 
willing to allow it to go through on two grounds  because Mr W didnt pass its 
affordability assessment, and because it would treat this as a new mortgage. 
Treating it as a new mortgage would require the term to be reduced to just two years 
so that it didnt exceed NatWests current maximum age criteria.
Im not persuaded this was fair. Mr W was an existing borrower with a current 
mortgage. The rules of mortgage regulation allow NatWest to set aside an 
affordability assessment  if the application is otherwise in the borrowers best 
interests. Ive seen no evidence NatWest gave this any consideration.And Im not persuaded either that it was fair to apply NatWests maximum age limit, 
applicable to new borrowers, to an existing borrower with an existing mortgage which 
already ran to beyond that age. At the time NatWest took the mortgage on, NatWest 
had been prepared to lend beyond Mr Ws 70th birthday. Whether or not its fair to 
set that limit for new borrowers now, Im not persuaded it was fair to retrospectively 
apply it to Mr W after it had already decided to lend to him.
I dont therefore think that NatWest gave proper consideration to Mr Ws application 
in 2019 to take the mortgage on his own. And while I cant be certain of this, I think 
theres a good chance that, considered fairly, the application could have been 
granted.
As regards the repayment of the smaller second sub-account, I think NatWest could 
have done more here too. Ms W and Mr W had a credible proposal for repaying it in 
that their son would repay them once he had completed and financed his own 
building project. An extension to August 2019 was a relatively short extension, and 
still within the term of the main part of the mortgage.
I dont think it was fair for NatWest to treat the whole mortgage as being in default 
and demand repayment of it. Well over 80% of the borrowing still had five years left. 
NatWest was content to allow that borrowing to be paid in 2023 when it lent. This part 
of the mortgage was operating as it should. And so a reasonable alternative might 
have been simply to align the terms  rather than force Ms W and Mr W to re-finance 
or sell their property five years before 80% of their borrowing fell due.
At the time the term expired it wasnt clear what would happen in the divorce 
between Ms W and Mr W, and whether or not the property needed to be sold. 
NatWest agreed temporary forbearance  rather than a formal term extension  while 
matters were resolved. And I think that was fair. It wasnt clear at this point what the 
outcome would be, so I think allowing some time for the divorce to progress and the 
situation to become clearer was the right thing to do. But I dont think it was fair that 
NatWest moved to debt management and threats of litigation to recover the smaller 
sub-account while the larger was still outstanding and Mr W had credible suggestions 
for repayment at or before the end of that term.
The effect of moving the whole mortgage to debt management was that a new 
interest rate couldnt be agreed on the larger part of the mortgage once it expired  
which significantly increased the monthly payments. And I can understand why Mr W 
considers that was unfair. 
However, Im not persuaded that  even if the mortgage hadnt been in debt 
management  granting a new interest rate to follow on the old would have been the 
right thing to do. I say that based on what was known at the time, rather than with the 
hindsight of what is known now.
The interest rate on the smaller sub-account expired in January 2018, and the larger 
part in November 2018. Throughout this time, the divorce was progressing and it 
looked most likely  according to the discussions Mr W was having with NatWest  
that the property would need to be sold as part of the settlement. By this time the 
smaller sub-account was out of term and so not eligible for a new rate. And no firm 
plans for what would happen to that sub-account could be made until the divorce was 
resolved. The larger sub-account wasnt out of term. But granting a new interest 
would have meant an early repayment charge would be payable if the property 
ended up being sold, as looked most likely at the time. And so a new interest rate 
wouldnt have been the best way forward at that time.According to NatWests contact notes, it was only in April 2019 that it was finally 
decided that Mr W would look to take the mortgage on himself and buy Ms W out. 
Ive said that there was a good chance that  considered fairly  this application 
would have been granted. And a new interest rate could have been granted at this 
time.
But I dont think theres any financial loss. It would have taken a few weeks to 
process and implement an application. And the mortgage was redeemed by July 
2019. 
While the redemption only became necessary because NatWest refused Mr Ws 
various applications  and, had they been granted, its likely the mortgage would still 
exist  the fact is that the mortgage was paid back. And I cant say Mr W made a loss 
on interest payments he didnt in fact pay.
However, I do think NatWest could have done more in this case. It could have 
handled matters more sympathetically. It should have given fair consideration to 
extending the term of the smaller sub-account and to transferring the mortgage into 
Mr Ws sole name. Had that happened, an already difficult time for Ms W and Mr W 
wouldnt have been made worse, and Mr W might not have needed to pay back the 
mortgage when he did. In all the circumstances, I think it would be fair for NatWest to 
pay Ms W and Mr W £400 compensation.
NatWest had nothing further to add in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr W said that he and Ms W hadnt wanted to redeem the main part of the mortgage  but 
had felt forced to do so by NatWests demands for repayment and threats of repossession. 
And he said that NatWest should refund the extra interest charged each month from 
November 2018, when it refused to allow a new product and forced the main part of the 
borrowing onto the SVR. This would total around £4,100. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive re-considered what I said in my provisional decision. But as neither party has made any 
further argument, or provided further evidence, about my overall findings I see no reason to 
change my mind.
Mr W has said that I should require NatWest to refund the difference between interest on the 
SVR and interest on a new product from November 2018. But for the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision I dont think that would be fair compensation.
I agree that it wasnt fair for NatWest to put the whole mortgage into collections and refuse 
even to consider a new interest rate on the unexpired part. But it doesnt follow that  had 
NatWest considered it fairly  a new rate would have been the right thing at that time.
A fixed interest rate comes with an early repayment charge (ERC) if the rate comes to an 
end, for example by paying back the mortgage. In November 2018, Mr W and Ms W had yet 
to finalise the terms of their separation, and at that time the plan was to sell the property. 
Had a new rate been granted and the property sold, there would have been an ERC of up to 
5% of the mortgage added to the redemption balance.I appreciate that, as it turned out, Mr W took the property over rather than it be sold. But that 
wasnt known at the time. At the time, it looked like the property was going to be sold  and a 
new interest rate generally isnt appropriate where thats the case.
It was only in April 2019 that it was decided that Mr W should take over the property and try 
to take the mortgage into his own name. This application, too, should have been considered 
fairly. But if it had been, and if it had been granted, it would have taken some time to 
process. Even if a new interest rate was included as part of this application, I dont think that 
it would have been in place much before the mortgage was redeemed. And once the 
mortgage was redeemed, there is no financial loss  I cant say Mr W overpaid on interest he 
didnt in fact pay.
Putting things right
Im not therefore persuaded that there was financial loss. But I do think that NatWests failure 
to look at things fairly caused Ms W and Mr W trouble and upset over a long period, and 
eventually led to Mr W redeeming a mortgage he didnt want to and, quite possibly, didnt 
need to redeem. Im satisfied £400 is fair compensation for the upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Ms W and Mr W £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman