DRN-2623362
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Pantaenius UK Ltds (Pantaenius) handling of claims made under his 
marine insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M made claims for damage to his yacht in 2013 and 2016. The claims were accepted, 
and repair works completed. Mr M decided to sell the yacht in 2018. An inspection instructed 
by a potential buyer identified delamination and Mr M says this caused the sale to fall 
through. 
Mr M says he later became aware the surveyor instructed by Pantaenius in 2016 identified 
delamination and other damage to the starboard hull. The surveyor recommended 
Pantaenius carry out repairs to return the yacht to its pre-incident condition. Mr M says 
this didnt happen, and if the loss adjusters report from 2016 had been provided to him at 
that time, he would have been aware of damage and arranged for the repairs to be carried 
out. Mr M says by failing to carry out all recommended repairs, Pantaenius failed to follow 
the recommendations of their surveyor. As a result, the yacht wasnt returned to its pre-
incident condition. 
To put things right, Mr M wants Pantaenius to pay for the cost of the repairs. Mr M also 
wants Pantaenius to reimburse him the cost of the professional advice he received in 
relation to pursuing these claims. 
Pantaenius responded to Mr Ms complaint. It said following both claims being made, the 
surveyor was asked to comment on the repair costs from that incident only. Mr M had later 
provided invoices showing the required repairs quoted for had been carried out. Pantaenius 
also said that following the claims in 2013 and 2016, Mr M had signed disclosure forms 
which released it from any known or unknown damage which might relate to the claims. It 
said it wasnt taking any further action in response to these claims.  
Unhappy with Pantaenius response, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators reviewed what had happened. She didnt think Pantaenius needed to take any 
action to put things right. As Mr M didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the action Pantaenius took in response to both of the claims Mr M made. To 
clarify, while there are a number of references to a third claim in the correspondence 
between Mr M and Pantaenius, both sides have said this third claim isnt the focus here. As 
a result, Ive only considered Pantaenius handling of the 2013 and 2016 claims.
In raising his complaint, Mr M is relying on a survey carried out in 2019. The surveyor who 
inspected the yacht in 2019 goes into some detail about how they consider the delamination 
occurred. In doing so, they concluded the incident that occurred in 2013 contributed to the 
hull delamination. 
Ive reviewed the survey carried out in 2013 after the incident. It is detailed in setting out the 
damage to the yacht and what repairs are needed following the yacht being damaged.  I 
havent seen anything to suggest the survey was lacking or inadequate in setting out the 
damage caused to the yacht as a result of the accident. I also havent seen anything to 
suggest the repairs carried out didnt match the damage identified by Pantaenius surveyor. 
And I note there is no mention of delamination in either the survey or repairs. 
So while I note the contents of the survey from 2019, Im more inclined to give weight to the 
survey carried out immediately after the incident in 2013. Based on the evidence available at 
that time, there does not appear to be any conclusive evidence that delamination occurred 
as a result of the yacht being damaged whilst it was moored. Im satisfied Pantaenius fulfilled 
its obligations to Mr M in the handling of this claim in that the damage identified as being 
caused as the incident was repaired. 
In response to Mr Ms claim in 2016, Pantaenius arranged for a surveyor to inspect the 
yacht. He did so and identified damage - some of which he noted was not in relation to the 
incident Mr M had reported. This report was shared with Pantaenius, as Id expect given they 
instructed the surveyor. 
While I can see that knowing now what he does about the delamination Mr M says he would 
have liked to have been provide with a copy of the report, I dont think there was any 
requirement on Pantaenius to automatically share this with him. If Mr M had wanted sight of 
the report at the time, he could have asked for this and it would have been for Pantaenius to 
decide if it was prepared to share it. However, I dont think Pantaenius acted incorrectly by 
not providing a copy of the report to Mr M. 
Ive considered Mr Ms comments about the level of detail Pantaenius surveyor went into 
during the 2016 inspection. Hes concerned the surveyors inspection wasnt sufficiently 
detailed. Ive considered the report, but I dont agree its not detailed. The damage to both 
the port and starboard sides is listed. I dont share Mr Ms concerns the level of detail is 
inadequate. Id also note from email correspondence from just after the incident provided by 
Pantaenius, that Mr M was in contact with the surveyor when he inspected the yacht. So I 
think its reasonable to say if Mr M had any concerns about the surveyors capabilities, he 
could have raised these with Pantaenius at the time, but I cant see he did.  
Its clear from the report that delamination was noted, so I dont agree the surveyor missed it. 
And Ive balanced what I can see from the surveyors report in 2016 against the report Mr M 
provided from 2019. Pantaenius says the repair estimate matched the damage caused by 
the incident and, on this basis, the surveyor was satisfied the appropriate repairs had been 
carried out in respect of this damage. I think is relevant here that theres nothing to imply the 
surveyor wasnt sufficiently qualified to make this judgment. 
I appreciate Mr M is relying on the findings of the survey from 2019, which in his mind shows 
the delamination occurred after the 2013 incident. Whereas Pantaenius has said they dont 
think the delamination is likely to have occurred after what they consider to be such minor 
incidents. 
In order for me to say Pantaenius did something wrong I would have to conclude that the 
delamination more likely than not occurred as a result of the incidents in 2013 or 2016. Mr M 
has provided a comprehensive report from his surveyor which implies this. However, I am 
mindful this report was instructed between three and six years after each incident 
respectively. As such, Im inclined to place more weight on the inspections carried out at the time of each 
incident. I am more persuaded by these reports because they were both recorded at the time 
each incident occurred. I am not persuaded the survey provided by Mr M from 2019 is 
definitive in showing the delamination of his yacht was caused by either incident and that 
Pantaenius was responsible for repairing it. It follows, I dont consider Pantaenius acted 
incorrectly in its handling of the claims and Im not intending to require it to take any action to 
put things right for Mr M. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman