DRN-2604489
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account and registered a marker at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr K says in 2015 his Barclays account had been closed and now knows that this was due 
to suspected fraud. He didnt know how to deal with this and tried to apply for accounts at 
other banks without success. Not having an account made it difficult for him to work and he 
borrowed money. And it also affected his mental health.
Barclays says that it closed the account after a report of fraud and loaded the marker. It 
accepts that it didnt get Mr Ks account of what happened then. He had explained that the 
card and PIN for his account was kept in an envelope. And that these had been lost. It said 
that there was no record of him contacting it further until 2019 when he tried to open an 
account but was turned down. He complained in October 2020 and it offered to pay him 
£450 for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator recommended that Barclays pay Mr K a total of £750. Mr K hadnt made any 
formal complaint about what happened for a number of years. And Barclays had no record of 
him telling it he had been the victim of fraud before then. He appreciated his age at the time 
and that he was suffering from mental health issues. But it was reasonable for him to take 
steps to identify what had happened especially given the impact for him. Mr K had asked for 
compensation of £10,000 to £15,000 to repay what he says was money he had borrowed 
from family and friends. But our investigator didnt think that Barclays was fairly responsible 
for this. And he couldnt say that the marker alone was the reason say why Mr K wasnt able 
to obtain employment or financial products. Barclays had confirmed that the marker was 
removed on 11 November 2020 and he thought that the increased compensation was fair 
here.
Mr K didnt agree. He said that the compensation is inadequate and less than his solicitor 
had said he should be due. He didnt agree that he hadnt adequately made Barclays aware 
that his card and PIN had been taken at the time. He applied for a large number of accounts 
without success. And he wasnt told why he was declined. Or given any information about 
this from Barclays. He maintained he had been told that there was nothing he could do about 
this and he was in and out of the branch. It was only when he felt after a period of mental 
health issues that he could get back on his feet that he contacted solicitors and was told to 
raise this with the complaints team. He said he had told our investigator there was no other 
adverse information on his credit file. And even though Barclays had removed the marker it 
had still told him that it wouldnt offer him an account. He was struggling financially and still 
cannot open an account elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything Mr K has said about what happened and listened to the calls he 
had with our investigator about the recommendation and seen all the case notes from 
Barclays. I fully appreciate his position and that he wants significant compensation. I need to 
first say that we provide informal dispute resolution and we are independent. If he doesnt 
accept my decision he is free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time 
limits.
Mr K explains that he had the account from the time he was a child. But he was an adult 
when the account was closed. Ive looked at the statements for his account and can see that 
from November 2014 there was some income from what seemed to be employment and 
withdrawals of that money made. Some benefits were then paid into the account and 
withdrawn using the genuine card on the account  with the last such withdrawal of £10 on 
28 April 2015. 
Mr K says that he kept his card and PIN together in an envelope and that somehow these 
were lost or taken. The report of fraudulent activity on his account came in May 2015. 
Barclays says it sent him a notice of closing his account on 15 May 2015. It has no record of 
him visiting a branch after that time to report his card and PIN missing. He says he spoke to 
a relative that worked in that branch and was told that there was nothing that could be done. 
Based on what Mr K says he knew his account had been closed and wasnt satisfied with the 
reason. I cant know exactly what he was told but I think he had cause to consider 
complaining then.
I dont have specific details of when he applied for other bank accounts or products, but he 
lists a significant number of related businesses he has contacted. And he says that this 
marker has affected his ability to obtain employment through not having an account. He has 
used a family members account and says he has borrowed a significant amount of money 
from friends and family over the period which he needs to pay back.
I appreciate that it would have been difficult to get to the bottom of what happened. 
Especially as Barclays now accepts Mr K was himself the victim of fraud. So that fraud issue 
is not something I need to make a finding on in this complaint as it isnt in dispute. The 
actions of the fraudster therefore caused him significant inconvenience and distress. And   
Mr Ks position is that the way Barclays dealt with things did too.
It isnt here possible to both identify and quantify a specific financial loss from the actions of 
Barclays. I say this because I cant know what would otherwise have happened had the 
marker not been in place and whether Mr K for example would have got different 
employment but for it. He also still seems to be having difficulty accessing an account. 
Despite the problems and clear effort from him required to get this investigated I do think that 
Mr K could reasonably have pursued this matter earlier given the impact. The alternative on 
his account of borrowing many thousands of pounds isnt something I could hold Barclays 
responsible for even if I had full evidence to support this.
Putting things right
I take into account the period of time the marker has been in place and that Barclays has 
now accepted that Mr K was the victim of fraud and that it cant show it discussed this with him at the time. It seems that had it done so the marker could have been removed without 
the further inconvenience that has been caused. Ive already said what I think about Mr Ks 
position and whether I think Barclays should be held responsible for more than the distress 
caused to him and that ongoing inconvenience. I havent found that it should. 
We publish guidance on compensation, and I also apply my own judgement to the 
circumstances here. Having done so I find that the increased amount of compensation 
recommended by our investigator is the fair and appropriate amount. I know Mr K will remain 
disappointed by this. I understand he is still having difficulty opening an account even though 
Barclays has confirmed that the marker has been removed. And so, he may want to seek 
help from a free advice service about his options as I know our investigator suggested to 
him.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr K 
a total of £750.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman