DRN-3477822
The complaint
Mr A has complained that JAJA FINANCE LTD rejected his claim against it under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in 2017. Mr A paid for part of the cost using his credit 
card, provided by JAJA, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of 
the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer allegedly 
misleading Mr A into believing that the panels would pay for itself in about 8 years. Mr A 
says the benefits are insufficient to achieve this. 
Mr A says the installer did not provide finance to cover the cost of purchasing the solar 
panels. So, Mr A took out a personal loan with another provider to pay the remaining cost of 
the solar panel installation. He says the installer helped him fill in the application and 
assured him that the benefits of the solar panels would cover the loan repayments. 
JAJA responded to the complaint to say it needed further investigation. It asked for Mr A to 
have the system inspected by a relevant expert who could establish whether the system was 
performing as expected. Mr A was unhappy with this and so he referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr A, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and 
a number of assumptions on future performance. 
JAJA then made an offer of settlement. Mr As representative asked for details of how JAJA 
had calculated its offer. However, JAJA then reconsidered the matter, withdrew its offer of 
settlement, and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision in this case. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was planning to uphold the complaint and 
setting out how JAJA should put things right. Neither JAJA nor Mr A had any further 
comments, but Mr A did provide some further documents to help JAJA calculate the 
settlement, which we have forwarded to JAJA. 
As there was nothing further for me to consider, my findings have not changed, and this 
decision is in line with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
In this case Section 75 applies to JAJA because Mr A used his credit card to pay for part of 
the cost of the solar panels (£1,750.00). JAJA agrees that section 75 applies to this 
transaction. This means that Mr A can claim against JAJA, the creditor, for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the installer in the same way he could have 
claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 75 does not appear to apply to the loan taken with another provider (albeit I cannot 
make a binding decision about that as part of this complaint). The lender did not provide the 
loan specifically to purchase the solar panels or pay the installer directly. Rather the loan 
was paid directly to Mr A and he could have used this for anything he wanted. So, while I 
accept that his intention was to use that loan to pay the remaining cost of the solar panels, it 
appears there is not the required supplier, debtor, creditor relationship that would mean that 
loan is covered by Section 75. 
Section 56 of the Act is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between 
Mr A and the installer, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the installer 
as an agent of JAJA.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
I think the key document in this case  which clearly sets out what Mr A was told  is the 
quote provided by the installer dated 24 January 2017. This was for the solar panel system, 
including battery storage and a hot water diverter. The total cost quoted was £12,850.00. 
What Mr A was told about the system
The quote included the following estimates of the first-year benefit that the system would 
provide:
Feed-In Tariff generation £206.58
Feed-In Tariff export £156.92
Electricity saving £488.18 
Total solar income and savings year 1 £905.68
Battery storage £345.81 
Hot water diverter £181.50 
What this means:
The generation tariff is paid for each unit of electricity the system generates.
The export tariff is paid for each unit exported to the grid  unless there is a separate 
meter to record this, the assumption is that 50% of the generated electricity is 
exported.
Electricity savings are the cost of the generated electricity that is used by the customer, rather than buying this from the customers electricity supplier. Many 
installers used an assumption that 50% of the electricity generated would be used by 
the customer, given that 50% was assumed to be exported to the grid.
Battery storage would generate additional electricity savings as, rather than exporting 
excess electricity to the grid, it is stored in the battery and used at times when the 
system is not generating electricity, rather than buying electricity from the grid.
A hot water diverter uses excess electricity to heat water in a hot water tank rather 
than letting it be exported to the grid. This could save on electricity or gas costs, 
depending on the type of hot water system at a property.
In the end, Mr A only paid £11,750.00 for the installation, because it was found that the hot 
water diverter was not suitable for his home. So, the solar panels and battery storage were 
installed. 
From this quote, Mr A appears to have understood that the total benefit of the system in year 
one would be £905.68. While this amount does not match up with the other figures given in 
the quote (the Feed-In Tariff and electricity savings quoted actually total £851.68, with the 
battery storage providing a further £345.81 in savings  a total of £1,197.49), I think that the 
evidence supports what Mr A has said. That he was told the benefit of the system in the first 
year was going to be £905.68.
The quote does not provide information about how these figures were calculated. For 
example, it doesnt show the estimated annual generation of the system, or the unit prices 
for the FIT generation and export tariffs or the electricity unit price that Mr A was assumed to 
pay his electricity supplier. 
Performance of the system relative to the quote
I can see from the Micro-generation Certificate Scheme (MCS) certificate that the system is 
recorded as being expected to generate 2,383 kWh per year. That being the case, I would 
expect the quoted benefits to be achieved (within a reasonable margin of error) if the system 
was generating about that amount of electricity. 
The FIT statements provided show that the system has actually generated:
2,715 kWh in year one.
2,897 kWh in year two.
So, in terms of electricity generated, the system is generating between 14% and 21% more 
electricity than estimated  it is performing better than expected. 
FIT income
However, the FIT statements show that Mr A has received the following payments under the 
FIT scheme:
Year 1 income £179.91.
Year 2 income £199.93.
This is significantly less than the FIT income of £363.50 in the first year that was indicated 
on the quote. I think this suggests that the assumptions used on the quote were 
unreasonable or significantly exaggerated  whether that be the amount of electricity the 
system would generate, or the FIT unit prices used. I think that amounts to a 
misrepresentation on the part of the installer. Electricity savings
The electricity savings are a bit harder to quantify, as electricity prices change over time and 
depend on which supplier and tariff the customer chooses. However, at the time of sale the 
installer could get accurate usage and unit price information from the customer by requesting 
sight of a recent electricity bill. And where this is not available, I would expect an installer to 
make a reasonable assumption about the electricity unit price. But in this case I dont think 
either of these things has happened. 
At the time of sale, Mr A was paying his electricity provider 14.946p per kWh. If we assume 
that he would use 50% of the electricity generated by the system, this gives an actual saving 
of £202.89 in year one and £216.49 in year two  based on the actual electricity generated 
by the system. 
At the time of sale, using the information on the MCS certificate, the saving wouldve been 
only £178.08. so, it is clear that the estimate given on the quote is significantly exaggerated 
and is not reasonable or realistic. Again, I think this is a clear misrepresentation, as I cant 
see any way the system that was installed could reasonably be expected to lead to such 
savings. 
What Ive decided
Bearing in mind the misrepresentations set out above, and that Mr A says he wouldnt have 
purchased the solar panels if these misrepresentations hadnt been made, I have decided to 
uphold this complaint. 
So, I think that JAJA didnt treat Mr A fairly and he lost out because of what JAJA did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
JAJAs comments
JAJA has made a couple of points in explaining why it withdrew its initial offer and now does 
not think this complaint should be upheld. 
The first was relating to the Energy Performance Certificate. However, I do not think this is 
relevant to the sale. This is a generic document that contains information about a propertys 
energy use, typical energy costs and recommendations about how to reduce energy use and 
save money. It makes assumptions based on a typical user of energy, rather than the actual 
usage of a customer. So is not specific to Mr As energy usage. 
I think the quote provided by the installer is more relevant to the sale, given it contained 
information and estimates specific to the system that was being installed. While the 
information in the quote about the benefits of the system is an estimate rather than a 
guarantee, I think this estimate ought to have been reasonable and not exaggerated or 
misleading. 
The second point JAJA made was that it had requested, and Mr A had not agreed to 
provide, an independent inspection of the system to determine if it was performing as 
expected or if there was some issue that could be repaired. But I think the evidence provided 
is sufficient to determine that the system has been performing better than expected and as 
such there is no performance issue. Rather, I think the issue is that the estimated benefits in 
the quote provided to Mr A at the time of sale were misleading or exaggerated. As such these points have not led to me changing my decision, which is that this complaint 
should be upheld. 
Putting things right
I have decided that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr As 
complaint for JAJA to put things right by calculating the known and assumed savings and 
income to Mr A from the solar panels over a ten-year period. 
It should then calculate how much Mr A has actually paid (or will pay) for the system 
including credit card interest, loan repayments made on his personal loan and any 
settlement amount if that loan is ongoing (Mr A has provided statements from the loan 
provider, and confirmed hes made the contractual repayments to date). 
Mr A should provide a redemption statement or settlement figure from his loan provider if the 
loan is ongoing so JAJA can see the current amount required to settle the loan.
In the event the calculation shows that Mr A has paid (or will pay) more than he should have, 
then JAJA needs to reimburse him the overpayment, adding interest at 8% simple per year 
for the time he has been without that money. 
Should the calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then 
the calculation should be shared with Mr A by way of explanation. 
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr A first 
contacted JAJA that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that JAJA should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Explanation of the redress
Ive decided the redress should be calculated over a ten-year period, rather than the eight 
years that Mr A said he thought the system would pay for itself in. This is because I need to 
ensure the redress is fair and reasonable to both Mr A and JAJA. The estimated income 
shown on the quote wouldnt have been sufficient to pay off the cost of the system even 
before adding loan interest. So, Im not sure that this is exactly what he was told. 
Because Mr A can expect to benefit from the solar panels (through energy saving and Feed-
In Tariff payments) for 20 years, I think a ten-year period is reasonable when calculating the 
redress. In this specific case, I do not think a shorter period would strike the appropriate 
balance in terms of fairness.
Assumptions to be used in the calculation
The following assumptions should be used when calculating the known and assumed 
savings and income from the solar panel system:
System installation date: 7 February 2017
FIT unit rates per kWh (taken from Mr As FIT statements):
Installation to 31 March 2017 
oGeneration £0.0411 
oExport £0.0491 
1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018oGeneration £0.0411
oExport £0.0503
1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019
oGeneration £0.0439
oExport £0.0524
1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020
oGeneration £0.0439
oExport £0.0538
Following this, both FIT unit rates should be adjusted in line with by RPI on 1 April each 
year, and for future dates a reasonable assumption for the inflation rate can be made. 
Electricity unit rate per kWh (taken from Mr As electricity bills):
Installation to 22 April 2018
o£0.14234 
23 April 2018 to 26 March 2019
o£0.1237
27 March 2019 to 29 August 2020
o£0.1416
30 August 2020 to 16 September 2021
o£0.1413
17 September 2021 to 23 January 2022
o£0.1704
For dates, including future dates, where the electricity unit price is not known, JAJA can 
make a reasonable assumption about electricity price inflation. Mr A has provided some 
further electricity bills showing the actual unit rates he was paying, the unit prices for which I 
have included above. 
The self-consumption rate (used to calculate electricity savings) should be 50%. This based 
on Mr As electricity statements,. These show that in the year prior to installation of the 
system, his electricity usage from the grid totalled 4,784 kWh. And in the year following 
installation his usage was 3,365 kWh. 
I think the difference of 1,419 kWh is likely to be a fair reflection of the amount of 
electricity that Mr A used from the solar panels (bearing in mind this wouldve been aided 
by the presence of the battery storage). While this amount is slightly more than half of 
the 2,715 kWh generated by the solar panel system in that time, Im mindful that the 
presence of the solar panel system may not be the only factor in why Mr As usage 
was reduced. Nevertheless, it seems reasonable to assume it was the main factor, 
particularly as Im not aware of any other changes in how Mr A was using electricity at 
that time.  
The amount of electricity generated by the solar panels each year can be assumed to 
decrease by 0.5% per year.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr As complaint. JAJA FINANCE LTD should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman