DRN-1930650
 
The complaint
In summary Mr M has complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited, didnt record 
details of the motoring conviction that he says he disclosed to it.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr M contacted Hastings to renew his insurance policy. He was told that his old 
policy couldnt be renewed but he could be provided with a new quote. A discussion took 
place with one of Hastings call handlers, in which Mr M was asked a number of questions 
for the purposes of providing him with an insurance quote.
Mr M was provided with a quote. He was unhappy with the figure quoted and it was 
suggested to him that he might find it cheaper to use a price comparison site.
Mr M subsequently took the policy out online. And in September 2019 he made a claim. 
During the course of the investigation into the claim, Mr Ms insurer was made aware that he 
had a motoring conviction. After receiving this information, it decided to void the policy and 
repudiate the claim. 
Mr M subsequently complained to Hastings. He said that he had told it about his motoring 
conviction when he took out the policy. Hastings replied that it didnt have any evidence that 
he did. 
One of our investigators looked into his concerns and explained why she didnt think 
Hastings had done anything wrong.
Mr M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of any doubt, I am aware that Mr M has also complained about his claim 
being repudiated and his policy voided. Those are issues that rest with the insurer to decide. 
So, I wont be making any findings in relation to those issues. My understanding is that Mr M 
has made a separate complaint to the insurer in respect of those issues. My review in this 
case will focus solely on the complaint summarised above. 
After Mr M discovered his insurance policy hadnt been renewed, he contacted Hastings by 
phone. Ive been provided with and listened to the call Mr M had with Hastings 
representative in April 2019. 
The representative explained that his old policy couldnt be reinstated, but he could provide 
him with a new quote. In order to do this, he asked Mr M several underwriting questions. At 
approximately seven minutes into the call Mr M is asked if he had any motoring bans, convictions or endorsements in the last 5 years. Mr M says that he didnt. So, having listened 
to the call, Im satisfied that in his initial contact with Hastings, Mr M didnt declare any 
motoring convictions.
Mr M didnt take out the policy during the call. He subsequently applied for it online. Hastings 
has said the information in the statement of insurance represents the answers that Mr M 
would have given at the time of the quote. Ive looked at the statement of insurance that 
Hastings has provided for Mr Ms policy. I can see there is a section in relation to conviction 
history. No details of any convictions are recorded in this section. 
Hastings has said that the details on the policy documents reflects what would have been 
entered on its website during the online application process. Ive not seen the screens that 
Mr M would have been asked to complete during the online application process. And 
Hastings has said it no longer holds the information that would have been inputted onto its 
website, as this is only stored for two weeks. But Im satisfied that in this particular case, the 
information on the statement of insurance, is more likely than not an accurate reflection of 
the information Mr M provided to Hastings. 
I say this because the statement makes clear that it represents the answers provided by Mr 
M. He was asked whether he had any motoring convictions during the original telephone 
call. This is in my experience a commonly asked question when applying for motor 
insurance. And as Mr M answered no to that question during the call, I think its likely that he 
would have given the same answer during the online application process as well. 
Also, in the first paragraph of the statement, there is a section which asks the policyholder to 
read and check the information carefully. So, I think Hastings made Mr M aware that he 
needed to check that the information contained in the statement was accurate, and also of 
the consequences if questions werent answered accurately. 
Mr M has said he provided details of his motoring conviction to Hastings. But Ive heard in 
the phone call that he didnt. And for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not persuaded 
that he did during the online process. 
Its possible that he could have been asked to provide them after the application process had 
been completed. But Hastings has said it doesnt have any records of any validation checks, 
information requests or phone calls with Mr M during the calling off period. And Mr M hasnt 
been able to provide an e-mail showing that he sent details of his motoring conviction and 
driving licence to Hastings as he said he did. 
In conclusion having carefully reviewed all of the information Ive been provided with, I 
simply dont have enough evidence to conclude that Mr M gave Hastings information about 
his motoring conviction as he says he did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29July2020.
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman