DRN-2311860
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that BUPA Insurance Limited refused to pay for all the medical costs 
they claimed under a private medical insurance policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2020. Heres what I said:
Mr S is the policyholder on a private medical insurance policy with BUPA. This complaint is 
about consultations and treatment for Mrs S, whos a member under the policy.
Mrs S has suffered from problems in her eyes in the past. But more recently, shed suffered 
from blurred vision and was diagnosed with wet age-related macular degeneration (wet 
AMD) in her right eye. She was advised to have intravitreal injections, but she wanted to 
have a second opinion. So, she had a consultation with a specialised medical practitioner in 
July 2019. 
Mrs S had an OCT scan but this didnt give a diagnosis. The practitioner noted that the most 
likely diagnosis was wet AMD, but he also wanted to consider another condition. He 
recommended a fluorescein angiogram to try and confirm the diagnosis.
Mrs S had the angiogram and another OCT scan just a few days later. The practitioner said 
that the results didnt point specifically to wet AMD or the other condition. But he still thought 
wet AMD was the most likely diagnosis  and the medical report summarised the diagnosis 
as right wet AMD.
The practitioner recommended intravitreal injections, and Mrs S chose to go ahead with 
these. The practitioner noted that hed monitor the response to treatment, and if there was 
an atypical response, hed revisit the differential diagnosis.
BUPA paid for all the tests and appointments up until this point, but it refused to pay for the 
injections or the further appointments. It said that wet AMD is a chronic condition which isnt 
covered under the policy, and it didnt consider the treatment to be for an acute flare up 
either. Mr and Mrs S, on the other hand, say that the wet AMD develops from dry AMD in 
some cases, so it should be covered as its an acute flare up within the terms of the policy.
Mrs S had a total of three intravitreal injections. Mr and Mrs S say that the injections were 
part of the diagnostic process, and the wet AMD wasnt formally diagnosed until 
November 2019. BUPA, on the other hand, says that it hasnt seen anything to show that the 
injections are recommended to be used as a diagnostic tool.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs S complaint. She thought that wet AMD is a 
chronic condition under the terms of the policy. But she thought that BUPA should pay for 
the injections as these were administered before the wet AMD was formally diagnosed, and 
the main purpose of the injections was to diagnose the condition.
BUPA didnt agree with our investigators findings. It said that as the injections arent 
licensed to be used as a diagnostic tool, theyre not covered under the policy. As no 
agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I know Mr S has been concerned that he hasnt seen all the information sent by 
BUPA on this complaint. But Im satisfied hes seen everything thats material to the outcome 
of the complaint  namely, BUPAs reasons to decline the claim (as well as Mr and Mrs S 
reasons why it shouldnt be declined), the terms and conditions of the policy, and the 
medical reports relating to the claim.
The policy doesnt cover chronic conditions. It defines them as:
[] a disease, illness or injury which has at least one of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specifically trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back.
The NHS explains that wet AMD is caused by the growth of abnormal blood vessels at the 
back of the eyes, and treatment can help stop vision getting worse. The NHS also says to 
treat wet AMD one may need regular eye injections, and these are usually given every 1 or 2 
months for as long as necessary. The NHS also refers to regular check-ups with a specialist 
to monitor the condition.
BUPA says it doesnt provide cover for wet AMD because it requires ongoing or long-term 
control of the symptoms, it continues indefinitely and is likely to come back when treatment 
is stopped. It has referred to a definition for wet AMD by The Royal College of 
Ophthalmologists which says its a long-term condition, and it can be stabilised or improved 
in most cases with prompt treatment and timely monitoring.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that wet AMD requires ongoing or long-term monitoring 
and it needs ongoing or long-term control of symptoms. So, I think BUPA has acted fairly by 
considering it as a chronic condition under the policy.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs S have said about it being an acute flare up of chronic 
condition. The policy terms say that BUPA will pay for treatment of acute symptoms of a 
chronic condition that flare up. But it will only do so if the treatment is likely to lead quickly to 
a complete recovery or to you being restored fully to your previous state of health.
BUPA says the NHS website refers to The Macular Society. This says that people are 
usually first given a loading dose of three injections, once a month for three months. After 
that theyll be assessed if more are required. It also says some people dont respond to the 
injections. So, BUPA doesnt think the treatment for wet AMD can be considered under the 
term for an acute flare up of a chronic condition.Based on what Ive seen, I dont think BUPA has acted unfairly here. It doesnt look like the 
treatment for wet AMD is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery, or to Mrs S being 
restored fully to her previous state of health. Ive also noted that after the third injection, 
Mrs S practitioner wanted to keep a fairly close watch on things, and he recommended a 
follow-up appointment in a month.
Ive then thought about the purpose of the injections. Mr and Mrs S said these were used as 
a diagnostic tool, as the diagnosis was uncertain at the time. BUPA says the injections arent 
licensed to be used as a diagnostic tool  rather, theyre used as a treatment. Its referred to 
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidance for the use of the 
injection.
Ive had a look at the medical reports from Mrs S practitioner from the time of the injections. 
The report at the time of the first injection said that he felt wet AMD was the most likely 
diagnosis (but there was a degree of uncertainty), and he recommended the intravitreal 
injections. The practitioner noted Mrs S chose to go ahead with the injection, and the 
practitioner said hed monitor the response to treatment. And if there was an atypical 
response, hed revisit the differential diagnosis. This report also summarised the diagnosis 
as right wet AMD.
I appreciate that the diagnosis wasnt certain at this point. But Mrs S had originally been 
diagnosed with wet AMD, and the practitioner still thought this was the most likely diagnosis. 
Based on the report, the practitioner recommended the injection as a treatment  rather than 
a diagnostic tool. In fact, the report from the time of the second injection referred to it as 
treatment of presumed wet [AMD], and said this was also helpful in terms of the diagnostic 
uncertainty.
Overall, I dont think the main purpose of the injections was to diagnose the condition  it 
was to treat wet AMD. And as theres no cover under the policy for wet AMD, I dont think 
BUPA has done anything wrong by refusing to pay for the injections, or the consultations 
relating to wet AMD.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept my findings. Mr S responded in detail, and Ive considered 
everything hes said. Ive summarised his points below  but I have paraphrased some of the 
points.
Neither I nor the investigator accepted BUPAs argument that using the injections to 
diagnose was experimental;
I had based my finding on something that hadnt been raised before  that the 
diagnosis wasnt the main purpose of the injections;
The policy covers diagnostic tests, and theres no exclusion to say that diagnosis had 
to be the sole or main purpose of those tests;
I havent taken into account the practitioners response to BUPAs questions;
The main purpose of the injections was to diagnose, and this is clear from the 
practitioners reports, his response to BUPA, and what he told Mr and Mrs S; and
I hadnt interpreted BUPAs term about an acute flare up correctly  Mr S accepts 
that ongoing treatment for wet AMD isnt covered under the terms, but the first three 
injections were treating the flare up and should be covered.
BUPA didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now passed. 
So, Im issuing my decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said earlier, Ive considered everything Mr S has said in response to my provisional 
decision  as well as everything thats been provided throughout the complaint. But Im 
required to address the issues that I think are material to the outcome of the complaint. So, 
my findings wont be as detailed as Mr S comments, as Ive focused on the material issues.
Firstly, I did consider the practitioners comments to BUPAs questions when I reached my 
provisional decision. But I found his medical reports from the time of the injections to be 
more persuasive, and material to the outcome of the complaint. This is because these 
reports are more detailed, whereas his comments to BUPA are vaguer. For example, his 
response to the question what is the purpose of the injections? doesnt give a definitive 
answer either way. But in the medical reports the practitioner refers to the injections as 
treatment of presumed wet AMD. 
I still accept that the diagnosis had been uncertain. But I explained in my provisional decision 
why I thought the main purpose of the injections was to treat wet AMD. I dont see any 
reason to depart from my findings on this.
Mr S says that theres no exclusion in the policy which says that diagnosis had to be the sole 
or main purpose of the diagnostic tests. But the policy terms dont need to exclude all 
eventualities. And Im satisfied the injections were used to treat the wet AMD which is 
excluded. This is also why I didnt specifically consider BUPAs point about why using the 
injections to diagnose was experimental  but I did consider its point about the injections 
being used for treatment.
I know Mr S doesnt agree with my findings on whether or not the onset of wet AMD should 
be considered as an acute flare up of a chronic condition. But Ive reconsidered everything, 
and I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional decision.
So, I still dont think BUPA has done anything wrong by declining Mr and Mrs S claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman