DRN-3874789
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I are unhappy with the assistance they received from Aviva Insurance Limited 
when they claimed on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I were on holiday when Mrs I sustained serious injuries to her wrist and ankle. 
She needed to be repatriated to the UK for surgery. 
Mr and Mrs I are unhappy with the communication they received from Aviva and the 
assistance they received during her return to the UK. That included support with various 
transfers they needed, issues with the seats that had been booked on the flight and 
assistance at the airport. Following the flight, Mrs I experienced swelling in her injured leg 
which she says, in summary, caused delays to the surgery and her overall recovery. They 
complained to Aviva. 
Aviva offered Mr and Mrs I a total of £500 compensation. Aviva accepted that they were fully 
responsible for a three hour delay at the airport on Mr and Mrs Is return to the UK. And they 
accepted they were partially responsible for the delay to surgery. They later increased their 
offer to £700 compensation. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs I complained to Aviva.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. He thought 
£1000 compensation more fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs I had 
experienced. 
Aviva accepted the investigators findings. Mr and Mrs I asked an ombudsman to review 
their complaint. In summary, they didnt think the award fairly reflected the level of distress 
caused, the risk to Mrs Is immediate health and the longer term impact of their experience. 
They thought a total of £1500 compensation would more fairly acknowledge the short and 
long term mental and physical anguish theyd be caused. So, I need to make a decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from Mr and Mrs Is testimony that this was a distressing experience and Ive found 
what theyve said about the physical and mental impact upon them to be credible and 
compelling. In reaching my decision Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs I have told us 
about the short and long-term impact of their experience. Whilst Ive taken all of their 
comments into account, Ill focus on what I think are the key issues which are relevant to the 
outcome of the complaint. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. Im upholding this complaint, but I think the £1000 compensation 
offered is fair and reasonable for the reasons Ill go on to explain.  
Communication
Mr and Mrs I would like Aviva to introduce a new strategy to update consumers in vulnerable 
situations. Every case is different and the level of communication which is appropriate will 
usually depend on the circumstances surrounding the claim. My role is to consider the 
individual circumstances of this complaint and the impact on Mr and Mrs I. 
Mr I was initiating much of the contact with Aviva. I think it would have been helpful if Aviva 
had managed his expectations about timescales and how the repatriation would progress. I 
think this would have alleviated some of Mr and Mrs Is worry at a difficult and upsetting time. 
But Mr I was keeping Aviva updated about the medical situation and so I dont think it was 
necessary for Aviva to contact them every few hours. Mrs I was also stable and had received 
the initial medical treatment she needed. Overall, I dont think the level of communication 
between Aviva and Mr and Mrs I was unreasonable.
Booking seats on the flight 
Aviva booked three seats for Mrs I so that she could elevate her leg. The seats booked 
meant that two of the three seats were separated by an aisle. Aviva said the air crew would 
be able to move the other passengers around. Unfortunately, the passenger concerned 
refused to move and so Mrs I was moved to another row where there were three seats 
available
I can see that Mr I was made aware of the seating arrangements and accepted them. I also 
note it was proving difficult to source flights with the required number of seats. Mr and Mrs I 
were travelling in at a busy time of year for travel and I can see that Aviva were trying to 
locate routes and options which were convenient for Mr and Mrs I. I dont think this was in 
Avivas control. 
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs I have said about another row of seats being 
available when they boarded. However, Ive not seen evidence to suggest that this seating 
option was available to Aviva when they booked Mr and Mrs Is flight. There are a number of 
possible explanations for that row being available, including late cancellations, no-shows and 
the practice of holding seats for airline or medical assistance use. 
Assistance at the airport 
Its clear from the various enquires that Aviva made that they requested airport assistance 
for Mrs I. Unfortunately, Mrs I had to wait on the plane for an hour as there was no 
wheelchair or trained staff. She also had to move to a vehicle and needed help from her 
husband to do so. And it took around two hours from the time the plane landed to get 
through the airport. 
Based on the available evidence Im not persuaded that the lack of assistance at the airport, 
and the delay in providing it, were down to a failing by Aviva. The assistance had been 
requested and Aviva isnt responsible for the delivery of the service. So, I dont think I can 
fairly say this was something that was under their control or influence in this case. 
Transfer from the airport to the hospital 
Its accepted by Aviva that there were failings in the level of support and assistance offered 
on arrival. In particular, Aviva agrees that when Mrs I landed in the UK theyd not booked an 
ambulance to collect her. Theyd tried to do so but the booking wasnt possible. This meant 
there was no vehicle waiting for Mrs I and it took time to arrange one. Given the experience Mr and Mrs I had on the flight and in the airport this situation added even more stress after a 
difficult journey. 
When the vehicle did arrive, it wasnt suitable. Mrs I had to travel in a position which was 
unsuitable given the nature of her injury  she was required to elevate her leg which she 
couldnt do. Its also accepted Aviva were partially responsible for the delay in surgery.    
Aviva tried to book an ambulance, so I think its reasonable to conclude that was the 
preferred option. As Mr and Mrs I have pointed out, its also what was used to transport Mrs I 
to the airport before her departure from the destination she was visiting. Aviva missed the 
fact that an ambulance wasnt available. That shouldnt have happened and therefore they 
shouldnt have been trying to arrange alternative transport whilst Mr and Mrs I waited at the 
airport. 
The impact of this was that Mr and Mrs I were left waiting for transport and then had to take 
transport which wasnt suitable for Mrs I. Mrs Is leg was swelling and an uncomfortable 
journey in an unsuitable vehicle added to her discomfort and distress. It also meant that her 
surgery was delayed whilst the swelling reduced. This may have been avoidable had Mrs I 
not had such a long wait and been able to travel in an ambulance. The stress of the situation 
upset Mrs I to the extent that she had a severe panic attack which she says has left her 
emotionally scarred. 
Mrs I has set out in detail the pain and trauma she experienced. Shes also highlighted that 
the consulting doctor had informed her that the risk of Deep Vein Thrombosis and loss of life 
on the journey home had been a real possibility. Mr I has given a lot of testimony about how 
the swelling in Mrs Is leg developed which Ive also taken into account. But Ive not seen 
any medical evidence which confirms this and based on the evidence I have Aviva had 
obtained confirmation Mrs I was fit to fly. I can also only take into account what actually did 
happen, as opposed to what may have happened. So, whilst I acknowledge and understand 
Mr and Mrs Is concerns, this hasnt changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this 
complaint.  
Putting things right
Ive thought about whether it would be appropriate to award more compensation to 
Mr and Mrs I but I think Avivas offer fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the failings they were responsible for, which Ive outlined above. 
Im upholding this complaint and direct Aviva to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs I a 
total of £1000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Is complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited and direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman