DRN-3211299
The complaint and what happened
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society wont reimburse money he lost when he fell 
victim to scam. 
The full details of tis complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr R received what appeared to be an email from a friend about an investment 
opportunity. This was also celebrity endorsed. It transpired the email wasnt genuine. 
Mr R invested £259.55 in March 2019. In July 2019, he tried to withdraw his 
investment to no avail. He reported the matter to the regulator and Action Fraud, and 
was told hed been scammed. He initially wrote this off as a bad decision. 
After seeing further information about scams in the public domain, he contacted 
Nationwide in February 2020 to claim back his money (not earlier as implied by the 
investigator).
Mr R sent off documentation to support his claim but sent it to the wrong email 
address. This was rectified following a call from Nationwide in March 2020. In May 
2020, his chargeback request was declined as it hadnt been raised in time. But 
Nationwide was willing to consider it further if Mr R was able to provide 
documentation showing he had attempted to withdraw funds in the prior 120 days. 
Mr R wanted to take this further and complain, and it appears this was also sent to an 
incorrect email address. He complained further when no response was forthcoming. 
His complaint wasnt upheld as Nationwide was satisfied it hadnt done anything 
wrong. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint either. She was satisfied the 
chargeback claim was out of time and there wasnt any other reason why Nationwide 
ought to have intervened in the payment.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the 
overall conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
A chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers  in this case, 
Visa.  It arbitrates on disputes between a customer and merchant where they havent 
been able to resolve matters themselves. This arbitration is subject to the rules of the 
scheme  set by Visa  and so there are only limited grounds on which a chargeback 
can be raised, and it has to be done within set time limits. 
Whilst a chargeback could be raised for the situation in which Mr R found himself, 
Nationwide could only have successfully presented his chargeback claim had it been 
raised within 120 days of the transaction, or when he was expecting to receive the 
goods or services paid for. This is subject to an overriding limit of 540 days from the 
date of the transaction (this is the latest a chargeback could be made). Mr R had tried 
to withdraw his investment, in July 2019.  In order to be within Visas stipulated time 
limit of 120 days, he would have needed to make his chargeback claim by November 
2019. But he didnt contact Nationwide about the matter until February 2020, by 
which time he was already too late to make raise a chargeback. The 540-day limit 
isnt relevant here as the time for Mr R to make his chargeback runs from when he 
asked to withdraw his investment and that didnt happen (the 540 day limit will 
usually apply where something is paid for far in advance, such as a concert or a 
holiday, where there might not be any indication of anything going wrong within 120 
days of the transaction).   
Overall, Im not persuaded Nationwide did anything wrong in not pursuing the 
chargeback claim; it had no reasonable prospects of success as it was too late. 
Mr R has argued that Nationwide ought to have done more as the investment 
business was bogus and most banks have stopped payments to sites like this and 
have more information about fraudulent companies than the lay person. Other 
transactions have also been stopped to genuine merchants. 
I understand the sentiments behind his arguments. But I disagree that Nationwide 
ought to have intervened in this payment.  Banks and other payments services 
providers are obliged to carry out their customers payment instructions. There is no 
dispute here that Mr R authorised the transaction, even if he wasnt intending to be 
scammed. And so he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
Whilst Nationwide, along with other payment service providers, should be monitoring  
accounts and be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud, there 
was nothing about this payment which I think would have stood out, or ought to 
alerted Nationwide that Mr R might be at risk of financial harm. The payment amount 
itself wasnt out of the ordinary; the account was regularly used to make payments of 
similar, if not much higher, amounts and it had been used to make payments abroad. 
So even though this was an international payment, that of itself wasnt so unusual 
such that I think it ought to have triggered Nationwides fraud prevention systems.
I do accept that banks and other payment services providers have more knowledge 
of such scams, than the layperson. But I havent seen any persuasive evidence there 
were any warnings about the business Mr R paid, that meant Nationwide ought to 
have flagged the payment as unusual or stopped it. And there was no interaction with 
staff that meant there were other missed opportunities that might have identified the 
scam. I accept Mr Rs point that other transactions to genuine merchants might have 
been stopped. But it doesnt follow that Nationwide did anything wrong here. 
Its unfortunate Mr R fell victim to a scam. But as Im not persuaded Nationwide has done 
anything wrong, I wont be asking it to reimburse the money lost nor pay any other form of 
compensation.    
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman