DRN-1228620
 
The complaint
 Mr M complained about an instalment loan he took out with Evergreen Finance London 
Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat). 
What happened 
In June 2016 Mr M took out a loan for £300, repayable over four months. The loan was 
repaid.
Mr M mainly said that MoneyBoat didnt do proper checks to make sure the loan was 
affordable for him when he already had significant debt, including loans with other payday 
lenders. He feels it shouldnt have been so easy for him to obtain this loan when he was 
struggling to repay his debt and it put him and his family under massive financial strain for a 
long time. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and MoneyBoat told us about this loan. 
In summary, our adjudicator thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr M for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr M provided or the information MoneyBoat 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that MoneyBoat shouldve taken steps to 
verify the information Mr M had declared
as this was the first loan Mr M had taken out, Mr M didn't have any track record with 
the lender that shouldve alerted MoneyBoat to any underlying money problems. 
 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
MoneyBoat provided Mr M with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. 
Before lending to Mr M, MoneyBoat asked Mr M for information on his financial situation, 
such as his monthly income and his outgoings. It also asked about any other credit 
commitments and carried out credit checks. 
MoneyBoat said that as a result it agreed to lend Mr M a loan it worked out shouldve been 
affordable for him  although it was a smaller loan than Mr M had asked for.
This was Mr Ms first loan with MoneyBoat. So I think MoneyBoat could potentially rely on 
the information Mr M provided. Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan 
term, and taking into account all the information MoneyBoat had on record for Mr M, 
including what it appears Mr M told MoneyBoat about his monthly income and what he was 
paying out, this loan looked comfortably affordable for Mr M.  
Im sorry that Mr M had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan was difficult for him. 
I accept that in reality Mr Ms actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in 
the information he provided, or the other information MoneyBoat obtained. 
But its reasonable to expect that MoneyBoat couldve only decided Mr Ms lending 
application based on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the 
lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required MoneyBoat to 
probe any more deeply into Mr Ms finances or ask Mr M to prove what he was declaring or 
check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his 
financial circumstances. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for MoneyBoat to lend  especially as there wasnt anything 
obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr M wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. 
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that MoneyBoat did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr M. 
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr M. I hope that setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman