DRN-3293182
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society complains about the way that it has 
administered his mortgage. In particular, he complains his mortgage product was changed to 
his detriment and that Nationwide hasnt fully responded to his complaint or provided all of 
the information he has asked for.
What happened
In November 1990, Mr K took out a mortgage with Nationwide. The mortgage was originally 
on the standard variable rate (SVR). In April 1991 Mr K said his mortgage product was 
switched and a large loan discount was applied. Nationwide has said it was actually April 
2002 when the mortgage was switched to the base mortgage rate (BMR), not 2004.
The mortgage was repaid in September 2019.
Mr K has complained about a number of things:
His initial complaint wasnt documented correctly, and Nationwides communication has 
sometimes been poor and slow.
Nationwide hasnt told him how his mortgage product works  he wants Nationwide to 
provide product literature to demonstrate how the interest rate is comprised. He said 
that he should have been given this information at the inception of the mortgage and 
when any changes were made.
His mortgage product was changed on 1 April 1991 from the variable rate only product to 
the large loan discount product and again in 2002 from SVR to BMR.  He wanted to 
know how the product worked, whether the change benefited him, he needs interest 
payment breakdown calculations over the term of the mortgage and whether staying on 
the variable rate would have been to validate that the monthly mortgage payments [he] 
was making were calculated correctly andthat [he] has not been disadvantaged either 
by product changes orerrors in calculating the amount [he] should pay.
The information Nationwide gave him about the initial interest rate was incorrect.
Nationwide hasnt given him a breakdown of how the mortgage payment was calculated 
 in a format that he could understand and that it misleadingly told him that such a 
breakdown was commercially sensitive. 
The delay in Nationwide providing him with the information he asked for has meant that 
he delayed repaying his mortgage and therefore incurred more interest.
If some of the information was genuinely commercially sensitive then it should have said 
so at the outset.
The product switches were to his detriment  and in particular that the margin above the 
Bank of England base rate increased when his product switched from SVR to BMR.
The mortgage had been in arrears  he wants to know if the arrears have been 
automatically capitalised.
Subject to any further submissions, I issued a provisional decision that didnt uphold Mr Ks 
complaint, other than endorsing Nationwides offer of £75. 
Mr K didnt accept what I said. He clarified his complaint points. I replied that most of the 
points hed made didnt make any difference to the outcome and that one of the points hed 
raised would likely be out of our jurisdiction. I also said that in view of what Mr K had now 
told us about the product switch, I thought that we should set up a new complaint to deal 
with that.
Again, Mr K didnt accept what I said. Amongst other things, he said that his complaint about 
the product switch is inextricably linked to his other complaint points. So we should not split 
his complaint.
Nationwide agreed to my proposal to start a new complaint about the product switches and 
in particular any changes to the margin above the base rate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the points that Mr K has made about the investigation by the investigator. But I have 
conducted my own independent investigation and I am satisfied that I have enough 
information to make my own decision on this complaint. 
Essentially what Mr K wants is an investigation into whether his mortgage has been 
administered correctly over its term. I know he wont put it like that and considers there is a 
lot more to it. But we are not here to do those checks for him. And there is no requirement 
for mortgage lenders to produce evidence to enable him to audit his mortgage in the way he 
wants. 
Complaint and communication
I must take into account the FCAs rules in deciding what in my opinion is fair and 
reasonable. But even if there was a breach of the eight-week timescale to provide a final 
response it doesnt follow that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of 
the complaint. In this case Nationwide issued a final response within the eight weeks  Mr K 
would have been entitled to refer his complaint to us even if Nationwide had not addressed 
all of his complaint points.
Mr K chose to continue to complain directly to Nationwide and it continued to engage with 
him. Bearing in mind the nature of Mr Ks enquiries, I dont consider the time taken overall by 
Nationwide was unreasonable. 
I accept that there were circumstances where Nationwide could have done more to 
understand Mr Ks complaint. But in view of my findings elsewhere that there was no merit to 
many parts of this complaint, I cant see that the inconvenience caused to Mr K would 
warrant a payment of more than £75. In other words, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that 
Nationwide should pay compensation for the poor handling of a complaint where the 
complaint itself was not upheld. But I accept in this case there was an overlap between 
complaint handling and customer service. And the award reflects any shortcomings and any inconvenience caused by that. 
So I consider that Mr K will have spent some additional time because Nationwide didnt do 
enough to understand his concerns. But that was not solely down to Nationwides handling 
of this matter. He will also have suffered some distress because of that. But in all the 
circumstances here I think that £75 is a fair amount to reflect any distress and inconvenience 
he suffered as a result of this matter as a whole  but not the complaint under the heading 
product switches , which will be dealt with separately.
Lenders send mortgage statements over the life of the mortgage. That is so borrowers can 
check everything is ok. They would not necessarily have to know everything that had gone 
wrong or understood what had potentially gone wrong to have a complaint. There is no 
regulatory or other requirement for a lender at the end of a mortgage term to go back and 
produce a month by month breakdown to satisfy the borrower that everything is ok. Nor is 
there any requirement for a lender to produce a breakdown for recent transactions in the 
way Mr K has requested. So I think Nationwide has gone further in producing the 
breakdowns it has so far than it needed to. I dont see how I could fairly say that it should 
produce any calculations or breakdowns in a different format.
Nationwide hasnt told him how it works out the interest rates it charges
Mr K said he wants to know how his mortgage product works. I will deal with this part of the 
complaint under the heading product documentation.
Product switches
In response to my provisional decision, Mr K said, as is relevant:
For the term of my mortgage, I have compared my Nationwide monthly interest rate with the 
Bank of England (BoE) Base Rate as I have always been led to believe that essentially my 
mortgage interest rate tracks this  to some degree . It clearly shows the following:
For the period when the SVR was active on my mortgage (08/11/1990  01/03/2004) my 
mortgage interest rate was rarely more than 1% above the BoE Base Rate and mainly in 
the range of 0.5-0.95% above the BoE Base Rate.
For the period when the BMR was active on my mortgage (01/03/2004  01/09/2019) my 
mortgage interest rate for the most part was over 1.2% above the BoE Base Rate and 
from 01/01/2009  01/09/2019 (~ten years) was 1.71% above the BoE Base Rate.
It is also worth noting that whilst the [large loan discount] started off at 1% at its inception, on 
01/04/1991 it was quickly reduced incrementally to 0.29% on the 01/03/1993 where it stayed 
until mortgage term expiry.
Mr K has clarified what this part of his complaint was and the detriment he (may have) 
experienced. It relates to the fairness of the interest rate he was charged and in particular 
the margin he was charged above the base rate. This hasnt been investigated by 
Nationwide or us before. We will need to reconsider jurisdiction and information will likely 
need to be gathered. That is likely to take some time. While I reached a provisional decision 
on jurisdiction based on my previous understanding of the complaint, there will be different 
considerations bearing in mind the complaint as we understand it now. I dont consider that it 
would be right to delay making a decision on the parts of the complaint I can decide, while a 
new investigation is carried out into this part of the complaint.
I dont agree that the other parts of the complaint are inextricably linked to this part of the complaint. They are largely about whether Nationwide should give Mr K information and how 
that has been handled and/or distinct complaint points that can be decided without 
interfering or fettering our ability to make a decision on this part of the complaint. I dont 
consider that making a decision on the other parts of the complaint would prevent us 
reaching a fair decision on this part of the complaint  and vice versa. 
Even if there were some overlap  and we may need some evidence that covers some of Mr 
Ks other points  there is nothing to prevent us obtaining this information if we think it is 
necessary.
In any event, the rules which we follow state (DISP 3.5.1) the ombudsman will attempt to 
resolve complaints at the earliest possible stage and by whatever means appear to him to be 
the most appropriate. The glossary in DISP says that a complaint includes under all 
jurisdictions, part of a complaint. It follows that is it for me to decide what is the most 
appropriate way for me to resolve the parts of Mr Ks complaint. I consider that it would be 
appropriate for the complaint about the product switch, the fairness of the interest rates and 
the margin to be dealt with as a new complaint. I consider I have enough information to 
reach a decision on all other parts of the complaint.
Incorrect information about the initial interest rate
Mr K said that on 12 July 2019 told him what the initial interest rate on the mortgage was. In 
another email of 17 July 2019 Nationwide said the initial figure was wrong because it hadnt 
taken into account MIRAS.
It isnt in dispute that Nationwide made a mistake. I agree it should have taken more care  
although I can see how dealing with information from almost thirty years ago might cause 
some problems, in both the availability of the information and in the differences in the way 
mortgages operate (for example MIRAS).Nationwide rectified its mistake quickly and I cant 
see how I could reasonably require it to do any more.
Nationwide hasnt given Mr K a breakdown of how the mortgage payment was calculated
There is no rule or requirement for Nationwide to give a breakdown of the way the mortgage 
payment was calculated as Mr K has requested. I dont consider it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Nationwide not to give that information. So I dont consider there is any 
reason why Nationwide should provide any existing breakdowns in a different format or 
provide a new breakdown.
While Nationwide might have initially agreed to give Mr K the information he wants. Its not 
clear if Nationwide understood exactly what he was asking for. And it went further than I 
think it needed to in producing the information it has. I cant fairly ask it to do more.
Delay
Once the mortgage term ended, Mr K was contractually obliged to repay the mortgage 
balance. If he had a legitimate dispute then he could claim any additional interest or 
overpayments back, with interest after the mortgage was repaid. Mr K had a duty to mitigate 
his loss. It was his decision not to do so.
If some of the information was genuinely commercially sensitive, then Nationwide should 
have said so at the outset
I can see how Nationwide might have misunderstood what Mr K was asking for. My initial 
understanding of what he said about how the interest rate was derived made me think that the information he was asking for was likely to be commercially sensitive. So I think it is 
more likely than not that it was an innocent mistake by Nationwide.
Mr K said that Nationwide was looking for an excuse not to give him the information he 
asked for and that I am letting Nationwide off the hook. My role is to decide what I consider 
to be fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. If I find that 
Nationwide has not acted fairly or reasonably, I can tell it to compensate Mr K for any 
financial loss or any material distress and inconvenience he has suffered. Mr K has not 
claimed any financial loss as a result of this part of the complaint. And I cant see how that 
mistake caused him any real distress or inconvenience. In any event, I dont consider that 
any misunderstanding was entirely due to Nationwide. It is not my role to censure or punish 
Nationwide.
In this case, bearing in mind the complaint put to it, I think Nationwide has acted fairly and I 
think acted in good faith to try and address Mr Ks points. And it has gone further that I would 
have expected to in dealing with Mr Ks enquiries. I accept there may have been some 
shortcomings along the way. But I think its offer of £75 is fair to reflect that and any service 
issues  even if we were to accept all of the points Mr K has made about the way his 
complaint and queries were dealt with.
Nationwides responses have been contradictory and have not made sense
In this case, bearing in mind the complaint put to it, I think Nationwide has acted fairly and I 
think acted in good faith to try and address Mr Ks points. And it has gone further that I would 
have expected to in dealing with Mr Ks enquiries. I think its offer of £75 is fair to reflect that 
and any service issues  even if we were to accept all of the points Mr K made about the 
way his complaint and queries were dealt with. The fact that Nationwide has made an offer is 
because its service has not always been as good as expected. But I dont consider the 
evidence I have shows that Nationwide was trying to cover things up as Mr K has suggested.
Automatic capitalisation
Automatic capitalisation is defined by the FCA (FG17/4 - The fair treatment of mortgage 
customers in payment shortfall: impact of automatic capitalisations) as where:
Some firms automatically include customers payment shortfall balances within CMI 
(contractual monthly instalment) calculations, following a calculation trigger, such as an 
interest rate change. The payment shortfalls are treated as still outstanding with firms 
continuing to pursue the payment shortfall balance separately through their collections 
processes, treating the balances as immediately due and payable.

We consider that this practice is automatic capitalisation. Even if inadvertent, it results in 
firms automatically collecting the payment shortfall balance over the remaining term of the 
mortgage, while also treating them as immediately payable.
In other words, automatic capitalisation is where a mortgage is in arrears and the lender 
includes the arrears balance in its payment calculation. So, providing nothing else changed, 
the arrears would be repaid by the end of the mortgage term. But despite that, some lenders 
still treated the mortgage as being in arrears and continued recovery action.
The rules only prevented lenders automatically capitalising arrears from 2010.
Mr K did not complain about this to Nationwide. Strictly speaking, Mr K cant just add to his 
complaint points as he goes along. Under our rules, Nationwide should be given a chance to address it first  and I cant see that it has. But I accept it was considered by our investigator, 
so Im going to deal with it here.
Mr K has an interest only mortgage. Usually that means when the mortgage is in arrears, the 
balance goes up. It follows that the amount of interest due and the contractual payment will 
increase. That does not mean that the arrears have been automatically capitalised. That is 
because the arrears balance is not being repaid, only the interest on the arrears. 
In any case, the evidence I have does not show that Mr Ks mortgage was in arrears since 
2010.So the rules about automatic capitalisation arent relevant. And while he is correct that 
the relevant rules apply to interest only mortgages, it would be unusual in my experience for 
a lender to automatically capitalise arrears on that type of mortgage.
Mr K goes on to say:
If the arrears issue is not automatic capitalisation, there were times during the course of the 
mortgage where it was in arrears, and for those periods I wanted to ascertain everything was 
in order. As Nationwide have not given me that confidence or wanted to discuss it for that 
matter, I am complaining about it.
Mr K hasnt raised this point before. It is too vague for me to investigate as it stands. We are 
not here to check everything was ok with the mortgage. Mr K he would need to tell 
Nationwide what in particular he was unhappy about they way it dealt with him while he was 
in arrears so that it has the opportunity to respond to his complaint.
Product documentation
Mr K says he received no product documentation over the life of the mortgage.
The mortgage was sold more than six years ago. So I need to consider when Mr K became 
(or ought reasonably to have been) aware he had cause for complaint.
In regard to documentation at the time of the sale, I think it would have been apparent to Mr 
K if he did not receive any paperwork. Or if the paperwork wasnt sufficient for him to 
understand how the mortgage worked then he ought reasonably to have been dissatisfied at 
the time in question. So I think he ought reasonably to have had cause for complaint about 
the lack of paperwork from the original sale more than three years ago. There arent any 
exceptional circumstances that prevented Mr K complaining within our time limits and 
Nationwide hasnt consented to us dealing with this complaint. So I dont have the power to 
consider it. 
I have considered the product documentation over the life of the mortgage. The rules about 
the information lenders should provide borrowers has changed significantly over the term of 
Mr Ks mortgage. The first code of practice was the Mortgage Code in 1997  and then 
mortgage regulation in 2004  both well after the mortgage was arranged. So any 
documents there were, might not have included the information Mr K thinks he needs. There 
is also no requirement for Nationwide to retain that information for more than six years. 
I do have doubts about whether it is reasonable for a borrower to request all of the 
information for the life of the mortgage in this way once a mortgage has ended or was about 
to end. There is no requirement in the relevant rules for a lender to provide this information 
at a later stage  and I think there is a reasonable expectation that borrowers would query 
the lack of any information about their mortgage during the life of the mortgage. Mr K said 
that the mortgage statements do not contain enough information to know if anything had gone wrong. Im not sure I agree. I have experience of consumers making similar complaints 
based solely on the information contained in mortgage statements. 
Nevertheless, it might move things on if Nationwide sends Mr K all terms and conditions, 
mortgage offers, notifications of changes to interest rate products, and any other documents 
it would have sent Mr K over the life of his mortgage that it still holds. That should be 
relatively straightforward. Mr K should understand that it is likely that Nationwide will not hold 
all of the relevant information due to the passage of time and that the information it does 
have may not contain all of the information Mr K wants.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should:
Pay Mr K £75 for any distress and inconvenience.
Within 28 days of Mr K accepting this decision, send Mr K all terms and conditions, 
mortgage offers, notifications of changes to interest rate products and any other 
documents it would have sent over the life of the mortgage that it still holds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman