DRN-3482379
The complaint
Ms F complains about Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) about chargebacks she did not receive. 
She wants Monzo to reimburse her for the refunds due. 
What happened
Over the course of 2020 and 2021, Ms F made a number of online purchases from different 
retailers. Some of the goods she ordered did not arrive, and some were damaged or 
inappropriate. 
Ms F submitted chargeback claims to her bank, Monzo. These can be summarised as 
follows:
Claim B1  for £125.40; 
Claim B2  for £904.00; 
Claim O1  for £39.50; and 
Claim F1  for £592.93. 
Monzo looked into the claims and considered that it was not able to dispute the O1 claim, as 
Ms F had received a refund of £35.00 using the same transaction code as the original 
purchase. Monzo advised that Ms F contact the retailer if the refund provided was 
inadequate. 
Monzo initially declined to make chargeback claims for claim B1 and F1 because it said it 
had requested evidence from Ms F and had not received this. Ms F subsequently supplied 
the evidence and Monzo raised disputes for both claims. Both claims were eventually 
successful. 
Monzo declined to raise a dispute for claim B2, on the basis that it had been requested out 
of time. The scheme allows for claims up to 120 days from the issue arising, and Ms F had 
requested the dispute outside of these limits. 
Ms F complained to Monzo. 
Monzo sent its final response in July 2021 declining Ms Fs complaint.
Ms F brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Fs transactions and during the course of his 
investigation, Monzo acknowledged that there had been some issues in the handling of 
claim O1. Monzo offered Ms F £50 to reflect that it had initially rejected the chargeback claim 
on the basis of the wrong transaction. 
Ms F rejected that offer. Our investigator set out his view to the parties. This was that Monzo 
had acted reasonably in its handling of the chargeback requests and that the offer from 
Monzo was reasonable to reflect the failings which Monzo had made in relation to claim O1. 
He therefore did not recommend that Monzo do anything further. 
Ms F did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Fs frustration at the issues with receiving her goods, and the knock on 
effect of having to raise chargeback claims. 
I have reviewed the explanation of the purchases and claims which my colleague set out and 
I am satisfied that this is an accurate reflection of the transactions and the responses to Ms 
Fs claims. 
I agree with the investigators view that the business handled claims B1, B2 and F1 correctly 
and in line with the scheme rules for the card provider. It is unfortunate that the dispute for 
claim B2 was raised out of time, but I am pleased to see that Ms F has received refunds for 
the other claims. I do not think it was unreasonable for Monzo to request more evidence to 
support those claims and I think Monzo has acted reasonably. 
In relation to claim O1, I accept that Monzo made errors in the handling of the chargeback. 
Monzo has subsequently offered compensation of £50 to reflect the failings of its service in 
respect of this claim. I consider that this is a reasonable response to the issues and is in line 
with other awards we would make in similar circumstances. 
Consequently, I agree with the investigators view and do not ask Monzo to do anything 
further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Fs complaint and do not ask Monzo Bank 
Ltd to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman