DRN-2882197
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as S has complained that HDI Global SE unfairly turned down its 
business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.  
 
Ms R, a director of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf.  
What happened
S held a business interruption insurance policy with HDI. It claimed on its policy after being 
forced to close in March 2020, by to the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic.  
  
HDI said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable  
disease at the premises, S had closed as a result of the Government Act in response to the 
national pandemic. As HDI thought S had closed in response to the national lockdown, 
rather than because someone at its premises had Covid-19, HDI turned down its claim. 
  
S was unhappy with HDIs response and brought its complaint to our service. It thought there 
should be cover under either the extension for premises closure or restrictions or the 
extension for denial of access. 
  
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought HDI 
had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He thought the 
policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at the premises. 
And he didnt think there had been a case of Covid-19 at Ss premises before it closed.  
  
S asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the definition of a pandemic is that it is 
everywhere across the country and it couldnt be proved that Covid-19 wasnt at its premises 
before it closed. Ms R said she had symptoms of Covid-19 in May 2020 and had been at the 
premises monitoring them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on Ss business. But Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if HDI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ss claim.   
Premises closure or restrictions
The relevant part of this extension provides cover for business interruption or interference 
resulting from:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a 
Notifiable Human Disease occurring at the Premises
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as:
Notifiable Human Disease - An illness sustained by any person caused by
a) food or drink poisoning
b) any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent public authority has stipulated shall be 
notified to them
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease, as defined in the policy. However, for this extension 
to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on the business 
premises to have been the result of a case of the notifiable human disease occurring at the 
premises. 
 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. To treat that as a minimum requirement would, in my view, be 
unfair.  
 
Therefore, its necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers. Its not for HDI to show that there 
wasnt a case of Covid-19 at Ss premises. 
I understand that the definition of a pandemic indicates that the disease is widespread. But 
for this extension to provide cover, Id need to be satisfied that there was most likely a case 
at Ss premises. However, S hasnt indicated that anyone at its premises had Covid-19 
before it closed. Ms R said she had symptoms of Covid-19 in May 2020. However, this was 
a couple of months after S had been required to close by the Government, so even if Ms R 
did have Covid-19, I dont think it can fairly be said to have contributed to Ss closure. As I 
havent seen enough to persuade me its most likely someone at Ss premises had Covid-19 
before it closed in March 2020, I dont think this extension provides cover for the 
circumstances of Ss claim. 
Denial of access
This extension provides cover for:
Damage from the Insured Perils to property within a one mile radius of the 
Premises which shall prevent or hinder the access to the Insureds Premises 
whether or not there has been Damage to the Premises or Property of the 
Insured
Damage is defined in the policy as:
Direct physical loss destruction of or damage to the Property insuredFor this extension to provide cover, Covid-19 would need to have caused direct 
physical loss, destruction of or damage to property within one mile of Ss premises that 
prevented or hindered access to Ss premises. As I havent seen anything to indicate 
that Covid-19 caused damage to property within one mile of Ss premises, that 
prevented or hindered access, unfortunately this extension doesnt provide cover for its 
claim either. 
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Ms R, but having considered this 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require HDI to pay Ss claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman