DRN-4130797
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Santander UK Plc declined their request to port 
(transfer) their mortgage interest rate product onto another mortgage on a new property.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs S want Santander to compensate them for financial loss, 
distress and inconvenience.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat all the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs S being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs S had an interest-only mortgage with Santander of about £311,000, originally 
taken out in 2007. In 2021 they wanted to move home and reduce their mortgage, borrowing 
£137,500 and porting their interest rate product. They found a property, and their broker 
submitted an application for the mortgage. The broker told Santander that the repayment 
vehicle would be a future sale of the property.
The new property was 90 miles away from Mr Ss place of employment. Mrs S had been 
made redundant during the pandemic and was not working. This gave Santander cause for 
concern, and questions were put to the broker about Mr and Mrs Ss financial circumstances.
In error, Santander issued a mortgage offer; the bank acknowledged it shouldnt have done 
this, because it considered the mortgage unaffordable. Nevertheless, Santander agreed not 
to rescind this, and the broker confirmed Mr and Mrs S wanted to proceed. 
In June 2021 Mr and Mrs S moved their mortgage onto a new interest rate product, that had 
no early repayment charge, still on an interest-only basis. This was at a variable rate of 
1.19% over Bank of England Base Rate.
Unfortunately the purchase fell through for reasons unconnected with Santander. 
Mr and Mrs S found another property to buy. However, they wanted an increased mortgage 
of £185,000, which Santander wasnt able to offer, despite the application being assessed at 
senior level.
Mr and Mrs S redeemed their mortgage in June 2022, when they moved to their new 
property which they bought free of mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Santander. The bank didnt uphold the complaint about its 
lending decision, but offered £250 for any upset caused. Santander also reimbursed the 
survey fees Mr and Mrs S had paid, incorrectly paying them £777 when the fee had actually 
been £430. As this was in Mr and Mrs Ss favour, Santander didnt ask for the difference 
back.
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that, notwithstanding Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulations 
about porting, Santander was entitled to consider affordability. The investigator thought that 
the questions Santander asked about this were reasonable, and, given the brokers 
responses, the concerns Santander had about affordability of the mortgage were legitimate.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They said that Santander had told them at the outset that they could 
port the full £311,000 without any fuss. They also said that they werent aware Santander 
had agreed to let the mortgage offer on the first property stand; if theyd known this, theyd 
have increased their offer so they wouldnt have lost that property. Mr and Mrs S explained 
that the plan was for Mrs S to find a job in their new area, and theyd never been told that 
Santander had said the mortgage was unaffordable.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the broadly same conclusion as the investigator. I dont think 
Santander treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly when it declined their application for a new 
mortgage. These are my reasons.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has led to a series of major 
changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR 
regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending assessments, aimed at 
protecting consumers and encouraging mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they had passed tests under the old rules but 
wouldnt under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are 
contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability.
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go down. If 
theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, theres no 
obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And if there is a change to the terms 
of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a lender could still decide to allow an 
application without an affordability assessment if doing so would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests.
These rules are reflected in Santanders Loyal Movers policy. However, this doesnt mean 
that, where a customer asks to port a mortgage interest rate product, Santander isnt 
required to carry out any assessment of affordability. Santander can, if it chooses, dispense 
with an affordability assessment, but it doesnt have to.
Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs S were assured they could port their mortgage without 
any fuss. Any mortgage application is always subject to a full application and an 
assessment of affordability. And in this case, there were changes that were material to 
affordability. Mrs S had been made redundant, and Mr Ss declared earnings were just 
16.5% of his income at the time of the original mortgage application in 2007. 
Given this, I think it was reasonable for Santander to consider whether or not the changes 
Mr and Mrs S wanted to make to the mortgage contract would be affordable and/or in their 
best interests.
In this case, the information provided on the application about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances 
gave Santander cause for concern about affordability. Mr and Mrs S didnt appear to have 
sufficient income to sustain the mortgage, and Santander was told Mr and Mrs S had only 
been able to do so by using their savings, which could not be considered as a form of 
income.
Santander accepted it issued the offer on the first property in error. Mr and Mrs S say they 
werent aware that this hadnt been withdrawn, but the notes with the broker show that he 
knew this and even confirmed to Santander that Mr and Mrs S had wanted to continue with 
that mortgage offer. I therefore cant hold Santander responsible for Mr and Mrs S not 
offering more on that property in order to try to secure it.
Mr Ss income was largely commission-based, and so earnings over his basic pay of 
£16,500 could not be considered as guaranteed. Mr and Mrs Ss two sons had been living 
with them and contributing £1,000 towards the household expenses, but this would reduce to 
£600 after the move. Again, this wasnt a source of income that Santander could consider. 
Santander also had concerns about Mr S having to commute 90 miles for his job, although 
the broker explained that he would be living with his elderly mother during the week, 
providing care for her and returning to the family home at the weekend.
I think Santanders concerns around affordability were legitimate, given the change in 
circumstances since Mr and Mrs S had taken out the mortgage in 2007. Overall, Im satisfied that Santander reached its decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors. 
Santander considered the information the broker provided in response to its questions, and 
referred the application to senior colleagues. Santander therefore gave the application 
proper consideration, but ultimately wasnt able to offer a new mortgage.
Im also not persuaded that Santander should have disregarded the affordability assessment 
and allowed the application in the best interests of Mr and Mrs S. Even though they were 
downsizing and wanted to reduce the amount of borrowing, the concerns Santander had 
about long-term sustainability of the mortgage were, in my opinion, justified. Mr and Mrs S 
wanted to borrow more than eleven times Mr Ss declared income; as there were no other 
acceptable sources of income, I am not persuaded it would have been in Mr and Mrs Ss 
best interests for Santander to provide Mr and Mrs S with a mortgage in those 
circumstances.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs S wanted, but Im not persuaded that Santander 
was wrong to decline to offer a mortgage, given Mr and Mrs Ss situation. I am glad to note 
that Mr and Mrs S were able to go ahead with their purchase without the need for a 
mortgage. This means that they wont have to sell and downsize (again) at the end of the 
mortgage term, which is what the broker told Santander theyd be doing if theyd taken out a 
new mortgage. 
In addition, if Mr and Mrs S had ported the tracker rate product theyd switched to in 
June 2021, their repayments on a balance of £185,000 would now be almost £1,000 per 
month, which is more than they were at the point where the £311,000 mortgage was 
switched to the new product. With no guarantee that Mrs S would have been able to secure 
suitable employment, and with Santanders concerns around Mr Ss income, the evidence is 
persuasive that porting the mortgage would not have been in Mr and Mrs Ss best interests.
I note Mr and Mrs S say that theyd never been told that the mortgage offer on the first 
property hadnt been rescinded, or that theyd never been told that affordability was an issue. 
But these matters are clearly documented in the exchanges between Santander and 
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage broker. Santander had no direct contact with Mr and Mrs S during 
the application process, only their broker. If Mr and Mrs S believe they werent provided with 
relevant information, theyll need to take this up with the broker. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman