DRN-3943336
The complaint
Mr R complains that a cheque sent by Hasting Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) 
relating to his motor insurance policy, hasnt been cashed but Hastings says it has.
What happened
Mr R cancelled his motor insurance policy. His mother paid a final payment of £75.02 that 
was owed but this wasnt applied to the account correctly. Hastings issued a refund cheque 
for this amount but made out to Mr R as the policyholder. His mother made a further 
payment shortly afterwards to settle the account. 
Mr R says he doesnt have a bank account. He tried to cash the cheque into his mothers 
account and later his brothers bank account, but this wasnt successful. Mr R complained to 
Hastings. It said the refund cheque had to be sent in Mr Rs name. It also says its records 
show the cheque was sent on 5 December 2021 and cashed on 9 December 2021. Because 
of this it wouldnt issue a further payment. 
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator initially upheld his complaint but 
later decided not to uphold it. He says the evidence Hastings supplied showed the cheque 
had been sent and cashed. He acknowledged Mr R sent a photo of the cheque, time 
stamped in September 2022. But he was satisfied that the cheque had been cashed by 
some means, and he had seen nothing to definitively prove Mr R hadnt cashed it. 
Mr R didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
When the final payment for £75.02 had to be refunded, it was correct for Hastings to send 
the cheque payment made out to Mr R. My understanding is that this a requirement of the 
money laundering regulations. From the records provided Im satisfied that the refund 
cheque was sent on 5 December 2021.
There is no dispute from Mr R that he received the cheque. Hes sent a photo of it, which 
confirms it was in his possession. 
Hastings has supplied a screen print from its system records. This shows a payment for 
£75.02 was debited from its bank account on 9 December 2021. It confirms it was able to 
see an image of the cheque, via its bank, which wouldnt have been possible if the cheque 
hadnt been processed through the clearing system. 
In his complaint Mr R says he still has possession of the cheque, and he doesnt have a 
bank account. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Rs credit report that shows he does have a bank account. He has 
since provided screenshots of several entries relating to this bank account from 2021. The 
information he provided consists of four screenshots. This shows partial information as 
opposed to a full statement. But I acknowledge this doesnt show a payment received for 
£75.02.
I note Mr Rs comments that he doesnt use this account and that he had to contact his ex-
wife to obtain this information. This is why the information had to be provided in the way it 
was.  
Ive thought carefully about whether Hastings has behaved reasonably in its dealings with Mr 
R in relation to the cheque payment. 
In these circumstances Id expect Hasting to show that the cheque had been issued to the 
intended recipient, and that it had been cashed. Im satisfied from the evidence it provided 
that Mr R received the cheque and Hastings has demonstrated that it was cashed. 
Its not clear how the cheque was cashed, if this wasnt done by Mr R. But I dont think its 
been shown that Hastings is at fault here. Im sorry for the position Mr R finds himself in, but 
I cant fairly ask Hastings to do any more to resolve his complaint.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman