DRN-2951896
The complaint
Ms C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
registered two defaults on her credit file without informing her in writing. She feels the 
defaults have been applied unfairly as her account has never been in arrears for three 
months. Ms C wants Barclaycard to remove the defaults from her credit file and to pay 
compensation for the stress caused to her.  
  
What happened
Ms C held a credit card account with Barclaycard. Ms C contacted Barclaycard in September 
2016 to say she was struggling to make payments and wanted to set up an informal 
payment plan until she could afford to meet the minimum payments. Barclaycard agreed a 
monthly payment of £10. And, they agreed not to charge any fees or interest as long as Ms 
C kept up her payment each month. Barclaycard then wrote to Ms C in January 2017 to say 
a default had been registered on her account and she now needs to pay her balance in full. 
Ms C says she then checked her account and noted instead of taking the agreed £10 
monthly payment, Barclaycard had been taking the full minimum payment which was around 
£35-£40 per month. A payment plan was then set up for Ms C to pay £10 per month. Ms C 
then received a letter from Barclaycard in March 2017 to say they hadnt received any 
payment. Ms C says a standing order shouldve been set up when the payment plan was set 
up in January. Ms C says she then paid while on the phone and set up a Standing Order. 
Ms C continued to pay £10 towards the balance on the account but then received a letter 
from Barclaycard saying her account had been transferred to a debt collection agency  who 
Ill refer to as company P. Ms C says this left her confused as she had been making 
payments in line with the informal arrangement. Ms C then continued to make the same 
payments to company P. Ms C says she was refused a loan through her bank in July 2019 
and this led her to obtain a detailed credit report. Ms C says this showed two defaults, one 
registered by Barclaycard and one by company P. So, Ms C complained to Barclaycard 
about the default being registered. 
Barclaycard responded and said, while an informal repayment arrangement was in place 
they had informed Ms C that if she was unable to return to her contractual minimum 
payments, a default could be registered. Barclaycard said Ms Cs account was closed in 
January 2017 and transferred to their Recoveries department. 
Barclaycard said a letter was also issued letting Ms C know that a default had been 
registered with the credit reference agencies (CRAs) They said the default was backdated 
to September 2016 in line with when Ms C first went into the repayment arrangement in 
order to minimise the impact to her credit file. They said in December 2017 a decision was 
made to transfer ownership of her account to company P. They said, usually, the credit file is 
updated to show the account has been sold to another creditor, but on this occasion it 
wasnt. They said they had arranged for this to be corrected. 
Barclaycard said Ms Cs credit file will still show two entries for her Barclaycard account but 
their record will show the default has been satisfied while company Ps will continue to show 
active until it expires in September 2022. They said they agreed with the issues Ms C had 
raised about her credit file and offered compensation of £75.  
Ms C raised further concerns about the default and Barclaycard sent a further complaint 
response. They said they appreciate Ms C reached a payment agreement with them and 
maintained payments in line with this. They said, although the account didnt become three 
months or more overdue, the payments Ms C made were below the amount needed for a 
formal repayment plan or to maintain her account in line with the terms and conditions. They 
said they are unable to remove the default as it accurately reflects the informal arrangement 
they agreed. Barclaycard said the default was applied correctly. They said although Ms C 
didnt make a payment in February 2017, this occurred after the default had been registered 
so it didnt factor into their decision. Barclaycard said they would deal with Ms Cs complaint 
about the Direct Debit separately.  
Barclaycard provided a further complaint response and accepted they had continued to 
claim the full minimum payment by Direct Debit after they had agreed to reduced payments. 
They also agreed they didnt make Ms C aware of the need to set up a Standing Order which 
led to a missed payment in February 2017. They also apologised for failing to keep Ms C 
updated on the progress of her complaint and for the delay in getting back to her. To 
acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused, they offered £100 and a refund of 
£103.76 for the amount overpaid. Barclaycard said they agreed to reduced payments of £10 
per month in September 2016 but during this call they shouldve recommended Ms C cancel 
her Direct Debit and set up a Standing Order instead. They said this is because they had 
agreed an informal arrangement and within a few months, her account would be passed to 
their Recoveries team. They said it was passed to their Recoveries team in January 2017 
which is when the Direct Debit was cancelled, as they dont offer Direct Debits at the 
recoveries stage. They apologised their agent didnt explain this to Ms C and the impact this 
had on her financial position. They said they understand that, as a result, Ms C had to 
borrow funds to cover the higher payments and she missed a payment in February 2017. 
They said, as a default had already been registered, this didnt impact her credit file.         
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Ms C and Barclaycard on 30 June 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Registering the default 
The terms and conditions of Ms Cs account say she must pay at least the minimum 
due amount by the date shown on her statement every month. It goes on to say if Ms 
C misses her minimum payment then her records with CRAs may be affected and 
Barclaycard may sell the debt on to another organisation.  
Its important that financial businesses report accurate factual information about 
customers to CRAs. Guidelines issued by the Information Commissioners Office 
state that any data reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, complete and up to 
date. The terms and conditions say Barclaycard will report missed payments to the 
CRAs. So, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Barclaycard to report any 
missed payments to the CRAs. 
The next point Ive considered is whether the information reported was fair and 
accurate. Following Ms Cs call to Barclaycard to discuss her financial circumstances, 
they write to her in September 2016 confirming the arrangement to pay £10 per 
month towards the outstanding balance. They say, as long as Ms C continues to 
make these payments each month, they wont charge any further fees or interest. 
They say if Ms C is able to increase her payments, then she should get in touch as 
they may be able to set up a formal repayment arrangement. They also say they will need to update the CRAs and let them know Ms C is making less than her minimum 
payment each month and that shes still in arrears, which may affect her ability to get 
credit in the future.  
The letter goes on to say, 
Unless we can agree a formal repayment plan, based on the current payment offer 
well eventually close your account and register a Default. Weve explained more 
about this below.
Well send you a Default Notice if you continue to pay less than the minimum 
amount for the next six months. This is a formal notice (under Section 87(1) of 
the Consumer Credit Act) that gives you 28 days to fully clear your outstanding 
arrears or call us to agree a way forward
If you havent cleared all of the missed payments or agreed a formal repayment 
plan with us within 28 days after receiving the Default Notice, well register a 
Default with the Credit Reference Agencies. This will stay on your credit file for 
six years and may make it harder for you to get credit during this time
Your account will then be closed and youll be asked to pay the full balance 
immediately
We may refer your account to a Debt Collection Agency. Theyre companies that
specialise in working with customers who are making reduced repayments or 
who arent able to make payments. If we close your account, our recoveries team 
may either transfer the account to a Debt Collection Agency or will ask the 
Agency to collect the money on our behalf 
System notes provided by Barclaycard show an informal arrangement was applied to 
Ms Cs account in September 2016. And, it shows a Default Notice was sent to Ms C 
in October and registered in January 2017. 
I can see Barclaycard write to Ms C in January 2017 to say a default has been 
registered on her account. They refer to the Default Notice they sent previously 
asking Ms C to make a payment or get in touch to make a formal arrangement. They 
say, as this hasnt happened, they have registered a default with the CRAs. They say 
the account has been closed and passed to the Recoveries team. 
In the letter, Barclaycard say Ms C will need to pay the outstanding balance in full 
otherwise the Recoveries team may decide to pass the account to an external debt 
collection agency. 
Ms Cs monthly statements from September to December 2016 show Barclaycard 
continued to take the full minimum payment by Direct Debit rather than the agreed 
£10. Theres no dispute here that this was an error by Barclaycard as only £10 
shouldve been taken in line with the informal arrangement. 
Generally, credit providers wont record an account as being in default just because 
one payment has been missed. Therell usually be a trigger point  perhaps when the 
account is three months behind and payment reminders have been sent  that 
prompts the provider to take further action. This will generally involve sending a 
Default Notice to the consumer. The notice gives the consumer a deadline and if the 
consumer doesnt pay the arrears by the deadline the creditor will default the account 
and record it as such with CRAs. 
An account may also be recorded as being in default where an arrangement is for 
repayment of a sum substantially less than required. In this case, I can see an 
informal arrangement has been agreed which involves a payment of £10  which is just under 30% of the full minimum monthly payments which became due from 
September to December 2016. So, had £10 been taken through this period, then I 
dont think it would have been unreasonable for Barclaycard to register a default. But, 
that isnt the case here and Barclaycard have been taking the full minimum monthly 
payments from Ms C  which means theres no missed payments and neither is Ms 
C making a payment which is substantially less than required. 
The letter in September 2016 does set out terms and conditions and notifies Ms C 
about the steps Barclaycard can take. But, I cant see these apply here. One of the 
terms says, unless Barclaycard can agree a formal repayment plan, based on the 
current payment offer they will eventually close Ms Cs account and register a 
Default. At the point the default was registered, I accept no formal repayment plan 
had been agreed, but the terms say Barclaycard will register a default based on the 
current payment offer of £10. But, Ms C wasnt paying £10, she was paying the full 
minimum monthly payment. So, I dont think that applies here as the £10 payment 
wasnt actively in place prior to the Default Notice being issued and still wasnt in 
place when it was later registered. Also, the terms say a Default Notice will be sent if 
Ms C continues to pay less than the minimum amount for the next six months. The 
arrangement was agreed in September 2016 and the Default Notice was sent a 
month later. So, there hadnt been six months of Ms C making less than the minimum 
payments. A further term says if Ms C hasnt cleared all of the missed payments 
within 28 days after receiving the Default Notice, Barclaycard will register a Default 
with the CRAs. Again, I cant see that applies here as there were no missed 
payments from the point the informal arrangement is agreed to the point the default is 
registered.  
Barclaycards system notes show the CRA default date as 15 September 2016. 
Barclaycard say the default was registered on Ms Cs credit file in January 2017 and 
it was backdated to 15 September 2016 which was when they were first notified of 
Ms Cs financial difficulties. They say the default was registered correctly in line with 
their internal policy and process and the terms and conditions of the account. 
Barclaycard say Ms Cs account was sold to company P in December 2017. They 
say, when they transfer ownership of an account, they update the credit file entry to 
reflect that the debt has been sold. They say company P then create their own credit 
entry which is a continuation of the information Barclaycard registered. They say this 
is in line with their policy and process and is a recognised practice with the CRAs to 
avoid a default from showing twice. Barclaycard say they recognise they made a 
mistake when Ms Cs credit file was not updated correctly when they sold her 
account. They say they corrected this and that two entries would show on Ms Cs 
credit file.   
I have seen Ms Cs credit file and this shows a default registered against her account 
with company P  this is dated 15 September 2016. There is also a record for the 
same account with Barclaycard and this also shows a default dated 15 September 
2016 with the current balance marked as satisfied. Ms C says she has an 
arrangement in place with company P where shes paying £10 per month towards the 
balance.    
So, taking this all into account, I think there has been an error here. And, the error is 
in the timing of the default. Barclaycard have registered the default in January 2017 
and backdated this to September 2016. But, the evidence shows Ms C had made all 
required payments between this period. 
So, while I do think Barclaycards actions here havent been reasonable, Ive 
considered whether the registering of the default in January 2017 has made a 
difference. The informal arrangement does then start in March 2017 with Ms C paying £10 per month. I can see from the payment schedule this continues until 
December when the account is sold. So, while I dont think Barclaycard shouldve 
applied the default in January 2017, I believe they would have done so later. And, it 
wouldnt have been unreasonable of them to have done so between three to six 
months after March 2017 as Ms C was by this point paying substantially less than 
required under her contractual agreement with Barclaycard. 
There is therefore an argument here for saying the default date should be later than 
September 2016 but Ive thought carefully about what the impact of this might be on 
Ms C. As things stand, the default will expire in September 2022. And while the 
impact of recording a later date will mean its recorded accurately, it would lead to it 
remaining on Ms Cs credit file beyond September 2022. So, I wont be asking 
Barclaycard to amend this as I dont think it will be in Ms Cs interests. I cant see the 
recording of the default in January 2017 has had an impact on Ms C at that time. 
There is however the issue of the shock to Ms C when discovering a default had 
been registered at a point when there were no missed payments or substantially 
reduced payments. And, I think Barclaycard should compensate Ms C for this.   
I understand Ms C feels Barclaycard should remove the default. But, for the reasons I 
have explained, I dont think it was unfair for Barclaycard to register a default at some 
point. This does leave Ms Cs credit file showing two entries and two defaults for the 
same account. But, I think its clear from looking at the two entries that they relate to 
the same account, with the same default date and the original debt is clearly showing 
as satisfied. So, I wont be asking Barclaycard to take any further action on this.  
 
Transfer of debt 
I can see payments in line with the £10 arrangement start in March 2017 and 
Barclaycard write to Ms C in March 2017 to confirm her account is on a repayment 
plan. They say the plan is set up to run for 12 months and requires her to pay £10 
each month  and its due to end in February 2018. The letter says, IMPORTANT - if 
you can't keep up with these payments, please call us as we may be able to help. If 
your payments stop and you don't let us know why, we may transfer the debt you 
owe to a third party. The letter goes on to ask Ms C to contact Barclaycard before 
the plan ends to provide an update on her circumstances as this will help them 
review her situation and agree a new repayment plan if things havent improved. I 
can see Ms C makes the required payment every month but the debt is sold to 
company P in December. 
The letter in March 2017 says the debt will be transferred if payments stop, but I cant 
see thats the case here as Ms C makes regular payments in line with the 
arrangement. The terms set out in the September 2016 letter though do say 
Barclaycard may transfer the account to a debt collection agency if the £10 payment 
arrangement continues and they cant agree a formal repayment plan. 
So, given that this arrangement had been in place for 10 months at the point 
Barclaycard sold the debt to company P, I cant say theyve acted unreasonably. In 
addition to this, I cant see this has had any significant impact for Ms C as company P 
have continued with the payment arrangements which were in place with Barclaycard 
prior to the debt being sold. I do however think the timing of Barclaycards decision to 
sell the debt was unreasonable. 
At the point the debt is sold, Ms C is making regular payments in line with an agreed 
12 month plan. And, one which was due for review in a few months. So, its 
understandable Ms C was left confused as to why the debt had been sold despite 
meeting her commitments to the plan and prior to the expiration of the 12 month term. I cant see Barclaycard make it clear to Ms C in their March 2017 letter that 
they may still transfer the debt within the 12 month plan even if shes making regular 
payments. 
Updating credit file and payment arrangements  
The facts in relation to this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Barclaycard have 
accepted they got things wrong by not updating Ms Cs credit file correctly when they 
sold the account to company P. Barclaycard also accept they continued to claim the 
full minimum payment by Direct Debit after they had agreed to reduced payments. 
They also agree they didnt make Ms C aware of the need to set up a Standing Order 
which led to a missed payment in February 2017. And they apologised for failing to 
keep Ms C updated on the progress of her complaint and for the delay in getting back 
to her. Barclaycard say they agreed to reduced payments of £10 per month in 
September 2016 but during this call they shouldve recommended Ms C cancel her 
Direct Debit and set up a Standing Order instead. 
I think its right that Barclaycard should compensate Ms C. To acknowledge the 
distress and inconvenience caused, Barclaycard have offered a total of £175 
compensation and a refund of £103.76 for the amount Ms C overpaid. I have listened 
to a call between Ms C and Barclaycard where the agent discusses refunding the 
excess payments which had been made in the sum of £103.76 but Ms C explains 
she doesnt want this refunded as shell have to pay this back eventually at a later 
date. So, Ill leave this with Ms C to consider whether she does want this sum to be 
refunded, and if so, she will need to contact Barclaycard direct. 
Turning to the compensation, I think this should be higher to reflect the impact the 
errors have had on Ms C. I can see Barclaycard went through an income and 
expenditure assessment with Ms C in September 2016 and this shows she wasnt left 
with much disposable income after deducting her total expenditure and priority 
payments. So, while I think Barclaycard acted fairly in putting in place a payment 
arrangement to help Ms C, the result of the income and expenditure assessment 
shows how much of an impact it had on Ms C when more than the agreed £10 was 
being taken. Ms C says she had to borrow money in order to travel for her commute 
to a placement and university. In addition to this, Barclaycards decision to sell the 
debt prior to the end of the 12 month term did cause confusion which is shown in 
Barclaycards contact notes. Theres a record which notes Ms C called Barclaycard 
and was confused as to why her account had been transferred. And theres the 
shock to Ms C of discovering a default had been registered even though she had 
been meeting her minimal payments. Taking this all into account, I think Barclaycard 
should pay compensation of £300 for the upset, confusion and inconvenience caused 
to Ms C.     
So, subject to any further comments from Ms C or Barclaycard, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint. 
Following my provisional decision, neither party has responded with any comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Barclaycard have made errors in the timing of the default and selling 
Ms Cs account. And, there have been further errors which I have set out in my decision. So, 
in addition to the £175 already offered, Barclaycard should pay an additional £125 
compensation to Ms C  bringing the total compensation to £300. I feel this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the upset and confusion caused to Ms C.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. Barclays 
Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must pay £300 compensation to Ms C.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman