DRN-2360594
The complaint
Mr H complains that when he applied for a loan, Oakam Ltd didnt tell him that a record of its 
search would remain on Mr Hs credit file going forward. He says this negatively affected his 
ability to apply for other credit.  
What happened
In 2019 Mr H applied for a loan with Oakam which was declined. As part of the application 
process Oakam conducted a hard credit search. This means that information about the 
search appeared on Mr Hs credit file, and that other prospective lenders could see he had 
applied for a loan with Oakham. 
Mr H says he wasnt told Oakams credit search would appear on his credit file. He says he 
assumed a soft search would be used, and this wouldnt have left information on his credit 
report. 
Oakam has said that it informed Mr H that it would make a credit search when he applied for 
the lending and he agreed to this as part of the application process. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Mr H had given permission for a 
credit check to be completed as part of the loan application. They also said Oakam had 
informed Mr H that the loan search would appear on his credit file and he had agreed to this 
as part of the application process. 
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said it should have been made clearer that 
the search would appear on his credit file. He said that other businesses would usually do a 
soft search before lending. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oakam has supplied information about its online application process. This shows Mr H 
would have been directed to the section of its website that told him that a credit search 
would be done and that information about the credit search would appear on his credit file. 
He wouldve confirmed that he had seen this before the application proceeded. So, I think its 
reasonable to say that Mr H was provided with information about this when he applied for the 
loan. 
Im not persuaded that this information should have been more prominent. I think its clear 
enough that this kind of search will form part of the application process. And is also generally 
accepted that a loan application may leave some kind of footprint on a credit file. 
And even if this wasnt the case, I dont think its possible to show that this affected Mr H 
adversely. Any subsequent declined applications for credit would be because of decisions 
made by the prospective lender. This prospective lender will interpret the information on a 
credit file and each lender has different criteria for this. New credit could be declined or 
accepted for any number of reasons and Ive no way of knowing what bearing the Oakam 
search will, or will not, have on this. So, Im not persuaded that Mr H has shown he has 
suffered a loss due to the actions of Oakam. 
So I dont think Oakam misled Mr H and I cant say that he has suffered a loss. So Im not 
persuaded to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman