DRN-4003924
The complaint
Mr D complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSAs) handling of a claim 
made under his commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA did cause some avoidable delays. For example, there was around a three-week delay 
at the outset of the claim. This was due to poor communication between RSA and its loss 
adjuster, and was only resolved when Mr D called RSA. I see that RSA took two weeks to 
approve the drying works. It took the loss adjuster around a month to ask RSA to approve 
the quotes, and it took around three weeks for RSA to approve the cash settlement. 
I think some of the other delays were outside RSAs control. For example, delays in the 
contractor starting the repairs due to the Christmas period, and the problems that RSAs loss 
adjuster and contractor experienced getting in contact with the leaseholder in the downstairs 
property. Also, once the cash settlement had been offered, it seems Mr D didnt accept this 
for a number of weeks.
I find that the loss adjusters communication with Mr D was poor. I can see he was 
continually trying to obtain updates from the loss adjuster, and some of his emails went 
unanswered.  
The boiler for the downstairs property was inspected in November 2021. This found that a 
new boiler was needed due to the water damage, but this wasnt actioned by RSA for some 
months. However, this didnt directly affect Mr D as he didnt live in that property (the 
leaseholder lived there), and so I wont be awarding compensation to him for this delay. 
Mr D says that RSA hasnt reimbursed his expenses, but he hasnt detailed what these are. I 
see the loss adjuster explained that electric costs for the dehumidifiers would be reimbursed 
once the calculations had been received from the contractor. If Mr D hasnt had his electric 
costs reimbursed, I would suggest he contact RSA about this in the first instance.
Mr D has explained how hes been impacted by the matter - including needing to take time 
off work to attend appointments, spending a lot of time emailing and calling RSA and its loss 
adjuster for updates. He also said his relationship with the downstairs leaseholder was 
affected, and his tenants also ended up moving out. 
In all the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that £500 compensation is reasonable 
here. This recognises the delays caused by RSA, and its poor communication.
Mr D says a second leak wouldnt have happened if there hadnt been unnecessary delays 
in RSA dealing with the first leak. I havent seen any evidence of this. The second leak was 
in a different area of the bathroom and unrelated to the first leak. Although Mr D says that 
RSAs drying contractors caused the damage to the toilet, again, I havent seen evidence of 
this. So I think it was reasonable for RSA to deal with the second leak as a new claim.
Mr D says he understood there would be alternative accommodation for his tenants, though I 
see that the loss adjuster confirmed to him on 30 September 2021 that the policy only 
covered loss of rent and not accommodation for tenants. I note that the loss adjuster later 
confirmed that RSA could consider a reduction in rent if the tenants remained living in the 
property.
Mr D did reduce his tenants rent whilst the matter was ongoing, and RSA settled this claim 
before Mr D brought his complaint to this Service. Although he wants interest to be paid on 
this, as the settlement has already been paid by RSA and Im not making a money award for 
this, I dont require it to pay interest.  
RSA offered Mr D £100 compensation for failing to respond to his emails of June 2022 until 
6 July 2022. This didnt form part of Mr Ds initial complaint to this Service, but hes since 
asked us to consider this. Im satisfied this compensation amount was reasonable and 
recognised the inconvenience caused to him. Mr D has confirmed it hasnt yet been paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr D £500 compensation for its handling of the claim. 
I find that RSAs offer of compensation to Mr D for failing to respond to his emails was 
reasonable. I therefore also require RSA to pay Mr D £100 for this (if it hasnt already done 
so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman