DRN-2313145
The complaint
Mr S complains about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services 
(BOI) service when he applied for a loan. He says he sent his application a number of times 
but due to BOIs errors he missed the timeframe to be offered the loan. He also complains 
about poor communication. Mr S wants BOI to offer him a loan on the same terms and 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused.  
What happened
Mr S made an application to BOI for a loan. He received confirmation from BOI to say his 
application had been agreed in principle and he was asked to read, sign and date the loan 
agreement and upload it on the online portal. BOI said Mr S must upload the loan agreement 
within 30 days otherwise it would expire. Mr S tried to upload the document a number of 
times but BOI only received the second page of the two-page loan agreement. The 30-day 
period expired so BOI agreed to extend the timeframe to allow Mr S to send the loan 
agreement by post. They set a timeframe of 15 days for receipt by post but received it 
outside of this. So, BOI said the application had expired and no further extensions could be 
granted. 
Mr S complained and BOI said they had checked their online portal but couldnt find any 
technical issues which would stop documents or parts of documents being uploaded. They 
said Mr S could reapply but theyre unable to advise what decision and APR he will receive 
as this will be based on the information on the application, a new credit check and their 
lending criteria. Mr S had also complained about incorrect information he was given during a 
phone call. He said he spoke with a member of staff at BOI who claimed to be a manager, 
when this wasnt the case. BOI said, although the member of staff wasnt a manager, they 
were still a senior member and it was appropriate for them to deal with the issue. BOI did 
uphold two parts of Mr Ss complaint. They said a call handler told Mr S to upload the first 
page of his loan agreement even after the portal window had closed. And, their system didnt 
show a phone call which had taken place. BOI apologised and later, after Mr S raised 
concerns about issues with their complaint handling, they offered compensation of £75. 
       
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S. He thought BOI hadnt acted unfairly in relation 
to the loan agreement. And in relation to the customer service issues, he felt the offer of £75 
was reasonable. Mr S disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold part of the complaint and I think BOIs offer is a fair 
way to resolve this matter. I understand Mr S will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I 
have made this decision.
Loan agreement 
The key facts about this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Ive seen Mr Ss signed and 
dated loan agreement. BOI required Mr S to upload his loan agreement through the online 
portal and he tried on three occasions to do this. On all three occasions, BOI only received 
the second page and not the first page. The online portal then closed but BOI did agree to 
extend the timeframe to allow Mr S to send the loan agreement by post. Unfortunately, this 
arrived outside of the 15-day timeframe BOI had set. 
Taking this into account, I can see BOI have provided a timeframe and the evidence shows 
they didnt receive the full loan agreement in time. Theyve then extended the timeframe but 
again didnt receive the loan agreement in time. So, I dont think BOI have acted unfairly in 
closing the application process for Mr Ss loan. 
After the application process has closed, and while Mr S is going through the complaint 
process, a member of staff at BOI informs Mr S what led to the issue with BOI only receiving 
the second page of the loan agreement. Mr S was uploading the first and second page on 
two separate files. He was uploading the first page as one file, and then uploading the 
second page as a separate file. It appears the portal only allows upload of a single file so the 
consequence of uploading two separate files is that the second file cancels out and replaces 
the first file. This is why only the second page of Mr Ss loan agreement was coming through 
to BOI. Its clear though, there were communications between Mr S and BOI during the 
original 30-day timeframe to discuss problems Mr S was experiencing in uploading the loan 
agreement to the portal. So, Ive looked into this further to see whether it was clear to BOI 
what the problem was and whether they couldve done more to help Mr S.   
Mr S calls BOI to say hes received an email asking him to get in touch. The call handler 
explains theyve received only the second page of the loan agreement and they just need 
the first page. Mr S says hell upload the first page. Mr S calls BOI to explain hes uploaded 
the loan agreement and asks for confirmation its been received. The call handler explains 
theyve only received the second page of the loan agreement. The call handler says theyve 
already received this and explains the steps Mr S needs to take to send just the first page. 
Theres a further call during which a call handler explains to Mr S they only need him to 
upload the first page as they already have the second page. 
With the benefit of hindsight, I think the problem couldve been avoided had one of the call 
handlers identified that the portal only allows one file upload and then explained this to Mr S. 
I cant say however that BOI have made an error here as the call handlers did explain to    
Mr S that he just needs to upload the first page. It appears in further attempts at uploading 
the loan agreement, Mr S continued to send both pages.    
I think BOI took reasonable steps to help Mr S by extending the timeframe and allowing him 
to send the loan agreement by post. I note Mr S says he returned this in time but BOI 
received it outside the 15-day extension they had granted. I cant hold BOI responsible for 
what mightve been delays by the postal service so I dont think they have acted 
unreasonably in not accepting Mr Ss loan agreement.  
I do appreciate Mr S says the terms of the loan agreement with BOI were more preferential 
and hes now lost out on the opportunity of taking out a loan under these terms. Mr S has 
provided a breakdown of what he feels his losses are as a result of this event. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but, given that I dont uphold this part of the complaint, I wont be 
asking BOI to pay for those losses. 
  
Customer service
Mr S phones BOI to complain that he was told to upload the first page of the loan agreement 
and when he tried, the portal was closed. The call handler explains this is because the 30-day window for the portal has closed. Mr S complains about being told to upload the first 
page and why the previous call handler didnt identify the window is closed. Mr S asks to be 
put through to a manager and the call is transferred. Having listened to the call I havent 
heard the member of staff claim to be a manager. I do however understand why Mr S felt 
this was the case as he asked to be transferred to a manager.    
Ive found that Mr S was informed to upload the first page of the loan agreement a day after 
the portal window had closed and this led to him having to phone again to complain. And, 
BOI accept there isnt a record of a phone call which was made on another occasion. So, I 
think the offer of £75 compensation made by BOI is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
and reflects the frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr S. 
I note Mr S says hes unhappy BOIs original complaint response didnt uphold his complaint 
but, when reviewed again later, they did uphold parts of his complaint. I have taken this into 
account. Complaint handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, 
and in line with the law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be 
able to look into things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, 
then we can take it into account when looking at the overall customer experience. In this 
case, and following the first complaint response, I can see why Mr S feels his complaint 
wasnt investigated thoroughly. There are points picked up in the second complaint response 
which werent fully addressed previously. So, I think the complaint handling is an extension 
of the problems caused by the original failing. So, I have factored this into my decision and 
feel the £75 compensation offered by BOI also covers this. I uphold this part of the complaint 
relating to customer service issues and feel the £75 offered by BOI is reasonable. 
My final decision
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services have already made an 
offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services 
should pay Mr S compensation of £75. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman