DRN-4402110
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was unable to make a payment to his Skipton Building Society 
account.
What happened
Mr R says a card payment to his Skipton account was rejected. He says that Skipton has 
recorded his address incorrectly which led to the problem. Mr R would like to remove his 
money without penalty and for compensation for the hours he has spent trying to sort 
matters out.
Skipton says it hasnt made a mistake and it was Mr Rs other bank that is responsible for 
making sure its address details match its details. It says the problem was caused by an 
address mismatch for the first payment attempt and says the second attempt must have 
been down to Mr Rs other bank.
Mr R brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the payment hadnt been authorised by the other bank and that Mr R 
had opened the new Skipton account online.
Mr R doesnt accept that view and says his banking application (app) still has his address 
incorrectly recorded.
I asked both sides for further information.
Mr R has provided screen shots which show his address is recorded in an incorrect format 
and his other bank has said it didnt reject the payment, but Skipton did. It also says the card 
works normally and has provided evidence of that.
Skipton says it cant speak to the other bank to see what the problem is. It accepts Mr R 
spent time speaking to it but says its an online account for which Mr R is responsible for 
updating information.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and said I came to the provisional view 
that I uphold this complaint and provisionally thought Skipton could have done more to 
resolve the problems here.
I appreciated that both sides to this complaint blame each other for the problems in Mr R 
attempting to pay money into his new Skipton account. I said there was no issue that Mr R 
was an existing customer, and I was not aware of any previous address issues. I thought it 
highly unlikely that Mr R in these circumstances would have incorrectly inputted his address, 
which is well known to him. And I thought he was clearly aware of the importance of 
ensuring its accuracy as its a detailed, relatively unusual address.
I was satisfied that Mr Rs other bank provided clear evidence that Mr Rs account card 
worked at the time of the attempted payment. I could see that bank said the problem was 
caused by Skipton not accepting the payment. I appreciated Skipton says the problem was 
caused by the other banks address details for Mr R not matching its details. I couldnt see 
how that argument was fair, as it assumed Skipton hadnt made a mistake and its address 
details were the definitive details.
So, I looked carefully at the evidence I had been provided. Skiptons records showed that Mr 
R went online to amend his address in January 2023 with the addition of part of the address. 
I thought it likely that amendment was made to make sure the address details matched. But I 
could see from the screenshots of Mr Rs banking app that his details are still recorded 
incorrectly by Skipton and have mixed up large parts of the address. I accepted that Mr R 
had offered to show Skipton those details, but I couldnt see it had taken up that offer.
Overall, I said I had to consider on balance what I thought was more likely to have happened 
here and which party is more likely to be responsible for any mistake. I accepted that was 
not an easy decision but on balance I was satisfied the banking app details provided the 
most persuasive evidence that Skipton had and continues to record Mr Rs address details 
incorrectly. I also thought it unlikely Mr R would have inputted a familiar address incorrectly 
to the extent it is shown on the app.
So, I thought it likely that Skipton was responsible in part for the problem here. In any event I 
would have expected Skipton to have tried to resolve this issue by speaking to Mr Rs other 
bank and him. I appreciated it said it cant due to data protection issues but of course it can, 
with Mr Rs permission which he had said he would provide. I would also have expected 
Skipton to have considered the information I had seen about the address details on Mr Rs 
app which shows what appears to be mixed up information.
Overall, I was satisfied there was a problem with Mr Rs address that Skipton could have 
done more to resolve. I thought Mr R had spent some time on telephone calls to Skipton and 
had fairly offered to send photographs of his app details. I didnt think Skipton provided Mr R 
with appropriate options to resolve matters and it was not helpful to say it was Mr Rs 
responsibility to input his address details correctly when the evidence of the app suggests a 
more fundamental problem.
My provisional view was that Skipton should pay Mr R £100 compensation which I thought 
was fair and reasonable. I didnt think Mr R suffered any financial loss but accepted he spent 
some time trying to sort matters out without success. I could see Mr R appears to have 
closed the account or at least seems to suggest he no longer wishes to use it and so I didnt 
think the impact of what took place justified greater compensation.
Mr R accepts my provisional view, but Skipton has not replied to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Skipton should pay Mr R £100 compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Skipton Building Society to pay Mr 
R £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman