DRN-2652818
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line)
declined to pay a claim they made under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had Direct Line multi-trip travel insurance, which covered them for a year from 
2 March 2020 
Mr and Mrs B were due to travel by ferry, from the UK to Europe, on 23 April 2020. However, 
due to the UK travel restrictions in place at the relevant time, Mr and Mrs B were unable to 
travel on the ferry crossing. Mr and Mrs B says the ferry operator offered them a voucher for 
the same crossing and for the same travellers, to be used within a year.
Mr and Mrs B made a claim to Direct Line for the cost of the ferry ticket. Direct Line declined 
to pay, saying that the policy didnt cover recoverable expenses and that the voucher 
meant they had recovered their expenses. The insurer said that, if Mr and Mrs B wanted a 
cash refund, they could try to get this directly from the ferry operator. 
Our investigator looked at the insurance policy, and the circumstances of the claim, and 
thought that Direct Lines decision was reasonable. Mr and Mrs B disagreed. 
Because there is no agreement, the matter has been come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Direct Line has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive taken these 
rules and guidelines into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive also looked carefully at what Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy says it covers. 
The policy terms and conditions
The policy has a section about cover if you cancel a journey. Direct Line does not appear to 
dispute that Mr and Mrs Bs claim falls under this section of the policy. Under this section, 
the policy says: 
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for costs you have paid or legally 
have to pay if you have to cancel your trip including travel costs.
There is also a section headed, Youre not covered for, which says:
We wont pay for Recoverable expenses. 
Theres no further definition in the policy of  recoverable, cost or expense. 
The terms of the voucher
Mr and Mrs B said that the ferry did sail as freight only, so without any passengers. The 
email from the ferry company says that Mr and Mrs Bs ticket was non-refundable and that 
they didnt cancel the ferry crossing. On that basis the ferry company said: 
we can only offer a credit for future travel. We will hold the price of your unused 
ticket as a credit against a future booking of the same ticket type, which can be 
rebooked and travelled on within 12 months of the original date of outward travel.  
Mr and Mrs B said that they booked the trip for a specific purpose and wouldnt be able to 
undertake the same trip within the 12 month period. 
Was it unreasonable for UKI to decline the claim?  
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B would want a cash refund rather than a voucher  most 
people would prefer that, as it gives them full flexibility. 
But insurance doesnt cover every possible loss. Mr and Mrs B have been offered a voucher 
to the equivalent monetary value of the cost of their original ticket. So, based on the policy 
terms and conditions, I dont think its unreasonable for UKI to conclude Mr and Mrs B have 
recovered their losses. 
Ive also taken into account whether the terms of the voucher are so restrictive that it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs B to accept it. Based on the 
information provided Mr and Mrs B were going on holiday to Europe. And, in Mr and Mrs Bs 
case, Ive not had information to show that it was impossible or unreasonable for them to use 
the voucher. So, based on the evidence Ive been provided with, I dont think the terms of the 
voucher were so restrictive that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for them to accept it. 
I understand that the voucher was originally due to run out by March 2021. But I think its 
likely that the ferry operator would have extended the deadline for redemption.  If it wouldnt 
do that, Mr and Mrs B might have a new reason to make a claim on the insurance. However, 
as I understand it, Mr and Mrs B have declined to pursue this further with the ferry company. 
Looking at Direct Lines original decision to reject the claim, I think that was a reasonable 
one. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs B say that they cant complain to a travel industry arbitration scheme 
because their ferry wasnt cancelled. Even if that it is the case, it doesnt change my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. Thats because Im satisfied that its 
reasonable for UKI to consider that Mr and Mrs B have recovered their losses already on the 
basis that theyve received a voucher. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman