DRN-3276752
The complaint
Ms C complains that Next Retail Limited won't allow her to use her credit facility when 
purchasing items when there is an invitation only VIP sale.
What happened
Ms C has had a nextpay credit account with Next for some years. Periodically she is given 
early access to VIP sales', an invitation only event. Ms C said since early 2020 she's been 
unable to use her nextpay credit facility when purchasing items during these VIP sales 
periods. She said any item she buys on sale must be paid for outright. After the fourth time 
this happened, she brought a complaint to Next.
In its final response Next said its clear from its terms and conditions for VIP sales that where 
orders are delivered to a store, rather than to the customers home address, customers may 
be required to pay in full. Next said it checked Ms C's account and couldn't find any other 
reason why it might have asked for the full payment. It said although it wasn't upholding her 
complaint it recognised this was a disappointing experience for Ms C. 
By way of an apology for this and for the delay in responding to her complaint Next refunded 
three delivery charges for items delivered in July 2021. It also credited Ms C's account with a 
total of £80. Next went on to say that if Ms C is invited to the VIP sale in September and 
December and she adds the next Unlimited Delivery to her account she can have orders 
delivered to her home address. It said this service normally costs £20, but if she lets Next 
know when Unlimited Delivery is added, it will credit her account. This way, her VIP sales will 
be added to the nextpay account. Ms C wasn't happy with this response and brought her 
complaint to this service.
In her view, our investigator said the terms and conditions do state that if VIP sale items are 
being delivered to store, they may have to be paid for in full. Ms C disputed this. She said 
she had previously been able to use her nextpay account for her VIP orders when delivered 
to her home address. She said it was only since early 2020 that she had been unable to use 
her credit facility for these items.
Next said Ms C originally opened an account in January 2009. In February 2020 Ms C 
became aware that her nextpay account had been used fraudulently to place an order. Next 
said the order was cancelled and it offered to close the account so that it couldn't be used or 
accessed again. In turn, it said it could open a new account carrying over the credit limit and 
balance from the previous account. Next said Ms C accepted this arrangement.
Ms C didn't accept these findings and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Miss C but having done so I won't be asking 
next to do anything further.
Ms C has said that prior to early 2020 she was able to buy VIP sale items to be delivered to 
her home address and pay using her nextpay account. She noted that this changed and she 
hasnt been able to use her credit account since for the VIP sales. She is unhappy with this 
and believes it to be unfair. 
Ms C is bound by the terms and conditions of her nextpay account. 
I've seen contact notes between Next and Ms C. On 26 February 2020 its noted that Ms C 
became aware of fraud on her account. The contact notes say Customer chose new 
account  keep £500 credit limit. Ive seen a copy of the new credit agreement dated 
February 2020. Im satisfied that although Ms C had had an account with Next for some 
years she did opt for a new account when her existing account was compromised. So, the 
relevant terms and conditions date from her new account in February 2020, a copy of which 
Ive seen. 
On page one of the Pre-Contract Credit Information, under the title key features of the credit 
product it says:
You can use your nextpay account (your Account) to purchase goods online at next.co.uk, 
on other Next branded websites or via the Next call centreand otherwise as we may let 
you from time to time up to your credit limit. Purchases made by any such additional facility 
we permit, will be treated in the same way as Next Online purchases, unless we inform you 
otherwise. We may, at our discretion, also allow you to purchase goods in Next Holdings 
Limited subsidiary stores up to your credit limit using a nextpay card, or such additional 
alternative methods as we may introduce from time to time. We may also, at our discretion, 
offer you the ability to add store purchases to your Account for a limited period on the 
production of valid personal identification.
In the additional terms section of the terms and conditions it says twice:
If we, at our discretion, allow you to enter a repayment plan with us
I have also seen the Sale Terms & Conditions which are available on the Next website. 
Under the title Website VIP Sale it says:
If you have an alternative delivery address set as a default, or select store delivery, you may 
be required to pay for your sale order in full. If you would like to add your sale order to your 
nextpay account (subject to available credit), sign into and remove the default delivery 
address before logging into your VIP slot. Your order will be delivered to your billing address. 
The default store can only be changed when you register for your VIP slot. After this the 
default store cannot be changed for VIP sale orders.
Im satisfied the nextpay credit agreement terms and conditions for Ms Cs new account from 
February 2020 allow Next to allow a repayment plan at its discretion. Im also satisfied the 
sale terms and conditions clearly state that if orders are delivered to the store customers 
may be required to pay for the sale order in full. 
Ms C has said she is being unfairly treated, and at a disadvantage compared to non-VIP 
members. I do understand this is frustrating for Ms C, especially as she said she was able to 
have items delivered to store during VIP sales periods prior to February 2020. And I can see 
having VIP orders delivered to store may incur additional cost and/or inability to use her 
nextpay credit account. But the terms and conditions are clearly outlined for VIP sales and I 
wont be asking Next to do anything further. Next acknowledged this had been a disappointing experience for Ms C and that there was a 
delay in answering her complaint. As a gesture of goodwill, it said it applied a credit of £60 to 
her account, on top of a previous £20 credit, and offered to pay for the Next Unlimited 
Delivery option which normally costs £20. I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
Next has said Ms C hadnt responded to the Next Unlimited Delivery offer and she told this 
service she rejected the £60. If Ms C would like to accept these she should contact Next to 
see if they are still available to her.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman