DRN-1651728
The complaint
Mr M has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt stop a succession of 
payments to a gambling website. 
What happened
Mr M said some family members made multiple payments, totalling £1159, to a gambling 
website in one evening. They were made from his computer and from his account with the 
merchant. He believes RBS is responsible for what happened. He said its secure banking 
promise states that all payments are checked for irregularities and that it will send a text 
message asking if a payment is genuine. However, RBS never checked with him if the 
payments were genuine. Also, he said the website didnt ask for the CVV number before 
taking payments from his account.
He asked RBS to admit that its secure banking promise is not fit for purpose.
RBS replied that it hadnt done anything wrong. It said the payments didnt flag as potentially 
fraudulent in its fraud detection system and this was possibly because the website was 
secured with a password and the payments were made from a trusted device. It also pointed 
out that the need for a CVV number was a decision for the merchant, not the bank. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the banks decision and so he brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He didnt think RBS had 
failed to protect his account.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators view. He said the payments were unusual for him 
because hed only used this website for a week and the value of each payment was higher 
than other bets hed placed in the past. 
Mr M has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made it clear that hes not complaining about whether the payments were 
authorised or not. He is only complaining about RBSs secure banking promise.
Im afraid its not my role as ombudsman to make a finding that the banks fraud detection 
system is fit for purpose. Businesses dont share the details of their security systems with 
this service for obvious reasons. These are commercially sensitive and protected data. And 
each bank will have its own system and triggers.
Having said that, I can assess whether RBSs actions or omissions were fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Mr M said that RBSs security system should have been triggered by the 14 payments made 
in a short space of time, in quick succession and in multiples of £120 and £100 and £60. He 
said this was unusual for him and RBS shouldve sent him a text or one-time password 
asking him to confirm if the payments were genuine.
RBS said Mr M made regular payments to gambling websites. I can see that he did from his 
bank statements. Also, Mr M has confirmed that he used this account for bets. Hed used 
different websites in the past and, as he said, the stakes were usually for small amounts e.g. 
£10 or £20. However, I can see previous payments of £50, £75, £100 and £200 to another 
website.
Against this background, I dont think its unreasonable that these payments didnt trigger the 
banks fraud detection system or prompt an OTP. Although they were made in quick 
succession, they were consistent with his previous spending pattern and were not materially 
unusual in any other way. Moreover, this account was used for gambling. In addition, the 
payments were made to a website which was secured with a password, even though it was 
saved, and the bank said the payments were made from the same device (i.e. his computer) 
which had been used to make similar payments in the past. 
In relation to the absence of the CVV number, this is a matter for the merchant. Besides, I 
understand the card details were stored on the website and didnt need re-entering. Its 
likely, therefore, that the card details were verified when the account was opened.
In these circumstances, I dont consider that RBS has made any errors or that it has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr M, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman