DRN-3845552
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R, who are represented by a firm I will call S, complain that Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). The loan was in Mr Rs name alone and so he is the sole claimant, but for simplicity will refer to Mr and Mrs R as joint claimants in this decision.
What happenedMr and Mrs R bought a timeshare upgrade from a business I will call C in July 2011. The 
total cost 11,550, which was paid for by way of a loan from BPF. I gather this was repaid in August 2012.
In October 2021 S made a claim on behalf of Mr and Mrs R against BPF for problems they 
said they had with the timeshare. In summary, Mr and Mrs R said that:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to them and they had been 
pressured into buying it.
The timeshare agreement was null and void due to an EU Directive.
The associated loan from BPF was also null and void due to breaches of the CCA 
and the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999.
BPF didnt ask for any information about income or expenditure before granting the 
loan.
I gather BPF did not provide a final response and so the matter was brought to this service. 
BPF told us that it considered the claim had been raised out of time. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
thought that BPF had acted fairly in turning down the claim. She thought that there were two potential claims Mr and Mrs R could have made under s.75 and s.140A CCA, but both claims had been brought too late under the provisions in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
S argued that our investigator had not considered the claim that the agreement was null and 
void. It set out the reasons why it considered this to be the case in detail I wont repeat here. It also restated some of the points it had made in the original complaint and argued the agreement was non-compliant with the EU Directive on Timeshares.
I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:Before I get on to the substance of my findings, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. 
It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and 
my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, 
I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when doing that.
Under s.75 CCA, BPF is required to consider claims for misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract. And clearly allegations of misrepresentation are to do with information provided by the supplier of a product or service at the point of sale.
Having considered everything, I think there are several claims that Mr and Mrs R are making 
to BPF. I will consider each in turn.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr and Mrs R say that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership 
to them when they bought it. However, under both s.2 and 9 LA, Mr and Mrs R had to make that claim within six years of when they entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which was in July 2011  because that is when they say they lost out having relied on false statements of fact.
As Mr and Mrs R first made a claim to BPF in October 2021, that fell outside of the time limit 
set out in the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCAWhile only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome. Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under s.9 LA, Mr and Mrs R had to make their claim within six years of when the loan ended - which was in August 2012. But it was made outside of the time limit that applies.
Could limitation be extended?The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the time limits I have set out above can be extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
Mr and Mrs R argue that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider continued beyond 
March 2010. S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But once Mr and Mrs R repaid the loan in full, the agreement between them and BPF ended. As it was only the relationship between Mr and Mrs R and BPF that could be found unfair, limitation started to run when the credit agreement ended.
Mr and Mrs R say that limitation could be extended by s.14A LA as BPF had a duty to 
undertake due diligence to make sure that the timeshare complied with EU Directives.
For s.14A LA to apply, Mr and Mrs R would need to have a cause of action against BPF in 
negligence. That means BPF would need to owe a duty of care to give rise to such a claim.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments, I dont think BPF had a duty to protect 
its customers from buying timeshare products, with credit, that didnt comply with EU Directives. It follows, I dont think there is a claim to which s.14A LA could apply.
Mr and Mrs R have also said that they brought their claim within three years of when they 
realised they could, which was within the 3 years date from the date of knowledge. I havent been told which rule it is they say applies and I dont think there is anything within 
the LA that works in this way for Mr and Mrs Rs claims.
Is the loan agreement voidable?Mr and Mrs R argue that the timeshare agreement was null and void, which means the 
related BPF loan was voidable and Mr and Mrs R now wish to exercise their right to rescind it.
If the timeshare agreement was voidable, I think it is likely that the related loan was also 
voidable on the recission of the agreement it was used to fund. This is something that could be considered under a s.140A CCA claim, but for the reasons I have already explained, I think that claim was brought too late. However, it could also be a freestanding claim in its own right, so Ive considered it separately.
S has asked me to consider an EU Directive, some Spanish legislation and a Spanish court 
judgment. They say that, taken together, they demonstrate that, a timeshare that provides for a floating week or the ability to use points to book holidays with a provider, is a voidable agreement. Ive considered this argument. But I dont agree that Mr and Mrs Rs timeshare agreement is voidable.
First, the timeshare agreement states that it is governed by English law, not Spanish law, so 
I dont think the Spanish judgment (which in any event relates to a different timeshare product to Mr and Mrs Rs timeshare) can be applied directly to the question as to whether the contract is voidable under English law.
Secondly, the EU Directive Ive been asked to consider was the 1994 Directive 94/47/EC. 
That was enacted into English law in the Timeshare Regulations 1997, which amended the Timeshare Act 1992. None of those provisions prohibited the sale of timeshares like the one Mr and Mrs R bought.
In the recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems 
faced by UK owners, it was said that a floating week or points-based timeshare were basic timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of itself.
Further, these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare contained within 
the Timeshare Regulations 2010. So I am satisfied that these types of timeshares have never been prohibited to be sold under English law, either at the time of Mr and Mrs Rs sale or after. Based on the evidence I have seen; I do not think either the timeshare agreement or the related credit agreement is voidable for the reasons said.
BPFs decision to lend
Mr and Mrs R say they were not asked for any information about their income and 
expenditure before BPF made its decision to lend to them.
I am able to consider a complaint about BPFs decision to lend to Mr and Mrs R in July 2011. 
But in any complaint about lending there are a number of things to consider.
First, a lender had to undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to make sure a 
prospective borrower was able to repay any credit in a sustainable way. Second, if, as Mr and Mrs R say happened, such checks were not carried out, it is necessary to determine what the right sort of checks would have shown. Finally, if the checks showed that the repayment of the borrowing was not sustainable, did the borrowers lose out?Mr and Mrs R say that the right sort of checks did not take place and they may be right about 
that. But theyve not provided anything to show that the lending wasnt affordable for them. Ive seen nothing to suggest there were any affordability issues, such as missed payments or other financial difficulties at the time of the loan. Further, it looks like the loan was paid back in full, well within the original intended term. Taking all of this into account, Im not currently persuaded that the complaint should be upheld on this basis.
S has also said in essence that BPFs actions in providing the loan when it did, amounts to a 
breach of the duty of care it owed to Mr and Mrs R. And that this amounts to negligence, which extends the limitation period under s.14A LA.
S referenced a Spanish Court decision and the EU Directive which it argues required C to 
provide specific pieces of information to customers. For example there should be: An accurate description of that accommodation and its location. S says Mr and Mrs R were not supplied with such details at the time of sale, which leads they say to negligence on the part of BPF.
Ive thought about what S has said about this, but Im not convinced there was a breach of 
those requirements in this case. However, I dont need to make a finding on this, because for s.14A LA to apply, a claimant must have a cause in negligence against the alleged defendant, which means BPF would have to owe a duty of care to Mr and Mrs R to give rise to such a claim.
I have thought again about whether BPF had such a duty to protect its customers from 
purchasing timeshare products that may have been non-compliant with the 1992 Act with credit, by undertaking due diligence into the timeshare providers sale process. S hasnt provided any compelling reasons why such a duty of case would exist. And Im not persuaded that such a duty can be established.
ConclusionFor the reasons set out above, I currently think BPF acted fairly in turning down Mr and Mrs 
Rs claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too late. I dont think the loan agreement was voidable, nor do I think there is evidence to suggest the lending was irresponsible or unaffordable.
S did not agree and said the comment made about the members declaration document was 
not relevant as it related to the subsequent purchase of points which was the subject of the complaint. It went on to reiterate that it believed the purchase agreement was not complaint with the 2010 Timeshare Regulations.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R bought points to use with their membership which they had previously 
purchased. To that end I do not think the rules relating to that membership can be ignored when considering the subsequent purchase of points.
As for the matter of the Timeshare Regulations and what S says about Cs alleged breach of 
implied contractual terms as a result of its regulatory breaches, it acknowledges that those would have occurred in July 2011. And with that being the case, as the limitation period for a breach of contract claim is also six years from the date the cause of action accrued (see Section 5 of the Limitation Act), such a claim for this reason would probably be out of time under the Limitation Act anyway. In those circumstances I cannot conclude that BPF was 
wrong to reject the claim.
In any event, I think Mr and Mrs R took out a timeshare agreement that was fairly 
straightforward. Their agreement entitled them to stay at a number of different properties run by the timeshare provider. Each property had a different cost in points and they had 1,000 points to use in each year. Mr and Mrs R were able to book from 2011 onwards and every year they had to pay maintenance fees to access their points. None of this was in any way unusual or unclear, in my view, so I do not think there was any reason why this agreement was voidable for the reasons put forward by S.   
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Ivor GrahamOmbudsman