DRN-1325433
The complaint
Ms H and Mr M are unhappy about the trouble and upset they've been caused after Bank of 
Scotland Plc (trading as the Halifax) sent Ms H's new debit card to her old address where it 
was fraudulently misused.
What happened
Ms H and Mr M had a joint bank account. Ms H moved in with Mr M. They told the Halifax 
Ms H had moved and that she no longer had any further use for the debit card. She was 
persuaded by the bank to be kept on the account as it was helping her credit rating. The 
card was cut up, and they didn't think anything more about it.
When her card expired, the Halifax sent a new card to her previous address, a property that 
Ms H and Mr M now rented out to tenants. The card was fraudulently misused. The Halifax 
initially accepted that the transactions were fraudulent and reversed them. But when the 
bank attempted to raise a charge-back through the visa card scheme, this was declined as 
the address used matched Ms H's previous address. Ms H was then put to the trouble of 
proving her new address and corresponding with the bank to show that these transactions 
were fraudulent.
The Halifax accepted that it was at fault, as it should have updated Ms H's address when it 
was first told she'd moved in with Mr M. The address to which bank statements were sent 
had been updated, but the card address had not.
As a result of this mistake, whilst Ms H and Mr M didn't suffer any financial loss from their 
joint account, they were greatly troubled and upset. The fact that the property was tenanted 
left them anxious that it may have been their tenants who were responsible for the fraudulent 
use of the card, and so they would have to deal with that. That might have involved them 
seeking to evict the tenants. They were also put to the trouble of proving their living 
arrangements. And the way the bank dealt with something that had arisen from its own 
mistake was unduly time-consuming and upsetting for them both. This was made all the 
worse by some personal family concerns that they were dealing with at the time too.
Given the trouble and upset caused, the Halifax has offered Ms H and Mr M £500 
compensation for the effect this had on them. Unhappy with this, they complained to this 
service. Our investigator thought this amounted to fair compensation. Ms H and Mr M asked 
for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence provided by both parties, I agree with our investigator that 
something went wrong here and the Halifax need to pay compensation to Ms H and Mr M to 
put that right. And I agree that £500 compensation is an appropriate sum in the 
circumstances. I'll explain why.Having reviewed the evidence, I can appreciate how upset Ms H and Mr M have been as a 
result of this mistake. The knock-on effect of the Halifax sending Ms H's card to the old 
address has been a period of distress for Ms H and Mr M that was avoidable, particularly as 
the Halifax were aware of Ms H's change of address.
I appreciate that, but for this mistake, the fraud wouldn't have been committed. And I can 
understand that Ms H and Mr M are worried that their tenants may have been involved. 
Generally, when assessing compensation for the trouble and upset experienced by a 
customer, I will take into account the effect that the bank's actions have had on them. And 
here I do consider that this was more than just a minor upset. Ms H clearly thought that her 
integrity was being unfairly questioned. And this would have all been avoidable if a common 
sense approach had been taken by the bank.
Ms H and Mr M were put to a great deal of trouble and inconvenience in having to prove 
their personal circumstances. They were worried much more than they might otherwise have 
been, particularly given that the property was tenanted. And they were also concerned about 
whether any other correspondence from the bank might have been sent to the wrong 
address and that their data could be fraudulently misused again. Having looked into this, I 
am, however, satisfied that it was only this card that was mis-directed. But that doesn't 
detract from the worry they had anyway.
So, I have found that the Halifax were at fault here and that compensation should be paid. 
Taking everything into account, I think that £500 is an appropriate sum in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. This is what this service would classify as a substantial 
award and is in line with awards we have made on other complaints of this type. If it hasn't 
already, the Halifax should make arrangements to pay that compensation to Ms H and Mr M 
as soon as possible.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as the Halifax) has already made an offer to resolve this 
complaint and I think that the offer is fair in the circumstances.
So my decision is that, if it hasn't already, Bank of Scotland Plc should pay compensation of 
£500 for the trouble and upset caused to Ms H and Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman