DRN-2486888
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link) wont write off his debt with 
it and unhappy that it wont remove the adverse information recorded in respect of it with 
credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr H had an account with a company that I will call N. In April 2019 N assigned all its 
respective rights, title and interest in Mr Hs account to a company that I will call L.
On receiving assignment of the account L immediately appointed Link to manage it. At the 
time of assignment, the account balance stood at approximately £600 and this is, as I 
understand it, still the position today.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She came to the view that 
Link:
should have discussed with Mr H, in late 2019 and during most of 2020, the 
management of his account going forward regardless of the fact that during this time 
Mr H had a complaint registered with our service and under consideration by us 
about N
should place Mr Hs account on hold for six months
need not write off the balance as sought by Mr H on the basis Mr Hs position may 
improve overtime
Link responded to say that:
it had advised Mr H on a number of occasions that whist his complaint against N was 
under consideration by our service his account would be marked as on hold
it had advised Mr H on a number of occasions that discussions with him about his 
account would be undertaken once his complaint against N had been decided by 
our service
it wasnt possible, for various reasons, to agree a way forward with Mr H regarding 
the management of his account whilst his complaint against N remained undecided 
by our service
Mr H responded to say that he disagreed with the investigators view and felt that his debt 
should still be written off.
The investigator considered both parties responses to her view but wasnt persuaded to 
change her mind. Therefore, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me for review and 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I can confirm that Ive come to 
the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. There is also very little I 
can usefully add to what has already been said. 
Its clear both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. They have both 
provided detailed submissions in support of their respective views which I can confirm Ive 
read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that both parties will not take the fact 
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are 
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. 
Now I accept that Mr H holds the view that he will never be in the personal or financial 
position to clear the debt in question so Link should simply write it off and remove the 
adverse information recorded in respect of it with credit reference agencies, but I disagree. 
In my view it cant be said for certain what the future holds and because of this I dont 
believe its unreasonable for Link to want to keep the debt open in its books. I would also 
add that Ive seen nothing that would lead me to conclude that what is recorded with credit 
reference agencies in respect of the debt in question isnt accurate, so I see no reason to 
direct Link to remove or amend anything in this respect.
I will now turn to Links treatment of Mr H since the debt fell under its management. In doing 
so I can confirm that Ive had regard to Links regulatory obligations under 7.3.2, 7.3.4 and 
7.3.5 of the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) amongst other things.
Now like the investigator I do think Link could have entered into discussions with Mr H about 
how his account might be managed going forward, given his personal and financial position, 
before his complaint about N with our service had been decided. But I dont think that this in 
itself, especially given that Im satisfied that Mr H could and should have been aware his 
account was on hold with Link whilst his complaint against N was under consideration by our 
service, warrants the making of any award by me in favour of Mr H.
However, despite what I say above, I would add that like the investigator I think that given 
Mr Hs current personal and financial position Link should place Mr Hs account on hold, or 
keep it on hold, for six months from 3 December 2020 and send him during this time only 
information and documents its required to send by law or regulations. And that it reviews 
Mr Hs financial and personal position with him every six months thereafter and, if 
appropriate, it keeps the account on hold for longer.
My final decision
My final decision is that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited must:place on hold, or keep on hold, Mr Hs account for six months commencing 
3 December 2020
review Mr Hs financial and personal position with him every six months thereafter 
and, if appropriate, keep Mr Hs account on hold for longer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman