DRN-3353986
The complaint
Ms R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC refuses to remove negative information it reported to 
the credit reference agencies regarding an account she held with it.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Ms R says she provided her friend (F) with her Lloyds Bank account details which F 
misused.  In the interest of conciseness, I will repeat part of Ms Rs testimony here:
The lady in question (F) was not never given permission to misuse my account or to take 
out other fraudulent accounts, or to set up fraudulent direct debits debits using my account, it 
was me trusting that she only needed an account to have her money put into whilst she set 
up her own account after being made bankrupt for twelve months. The account was used 
fraudulenty as she set up direct debits in my name and sent the account into an 
unauthorised overdraft.
The unauthorised overdraft Ms R refers to resulted in Lloyds Bank reporting negative 
information to the credit reference agencies regarding her account.
Ms R raised this matter with Lloyds Bank and asked it, amongst other things, to remove the 
negative information.  Lloyds Bank refused to do this and deemed the matter a domestic 
one.  It said that as Ms R provided her friend with permission to use her account, it has 
made no error in its reporting to the credit reference agencies.
Unhappy with this, Ms R raised a complaint which she also referred to our Service.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Ms R did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
In Ms Rs case, she gave F authority to use her account details to receive money only.  
However, F exceeded this authority by using Ms Rs account details in the way in which she 
has described.  
Whilst I have great sympathy for what Ms R says happened, I am unable to say Lloyds Bank 
has acted unreasonably.  I say this because as Ms R provided F with her account details, 
she effectively put F in a position which enabled F to misuse them, which in turn led to her 
account going into an unauthorised overdraft.  These are circumstances I am unable to fairly 
hold Lloyds Bank responsible for.  That is, I cannot fairly hold it responsible for Ms Rs 
misplaced trust in F.
Ms R has also expressed concerns that she did not agree to an overdraft, so argues that 
Lloyds Bank should not have allowed her account to go into an unauthorised overdraft and 
intervened accordingly.  Whilst I take Ms Rs point, I have considered the terms and 
conditions of her account.  Having done so, I am satisfied that they permitted Lloyds Bank to 
allow Ms Rs account to be overdrawn.
Taking all the above points together, I am not persuaded Lloyds Bank has done anything 
wrong in the circumstances of Ms Rs complaint.  It follows that I will not be asking Lloyds 
Bank to amend any reporting to the credit reference agencies; an obligation which Lloyds 
Bank must do accurately.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman