DRN-2747006
The complaint
Miss B complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) didnt accept liability for 
issues with a replacement tv after she made a claim on an appliance insurance policy.
Any reference to D&G includes its agents.
What happened
In March 2020 Miss B purchased a tv from an online retailer (B2). Around the same time 
she also purchased an appliance insurance policy from B2 to protect her purchase. D&G 
have said they are the underwriters of this policy.
In June 2020 Miss B experienced problems with the tv and contacted D&G. They arranged, 
under this policy, for B2 to send a replacement tv. The replacement tv was a different brand 
(B3) to the tv shed purchased. 
Miss B contacted D&G again after receiving tv2 to let them know that there was a major 
issue with the new tv. Some further communication took place between Miss B and D&G, B2 
and B3. It was ultimately decided that B2 would arrange collection of the tv and have it 
inspected by B3 as it was suspected that there may have been a manufacturers fault.
A number of weeks passed and it seems that in error, the tv was incorrectly sold by B2 to 
another customer and was subsequently returned again  but with further damage. Shortly 
afterwards B3 said theyd no longer inspect the tv as the further damage voided the warranty 
and, in summary, it wouldnt be possible to determine the initial fault due to the further 
damage to the tv. 
Miss B complained to D&G about all that had happened. She also told D&G that the fault 
with the replacement tv had caused her to experience some medical issues and as a result 
shes had to pay for a carer. For privacy reasons I wont go into detail on the medical issues, 
but theyre known to the parties involved here. 
D&G apologised to Miss B, but in their final response letter said that their responsibility 
ended once theyd settled the claim shed made and a replacement tv was provided. D&G 
said that any issues with the new tv were the responsibility of the manufacturer (B3) under 
their warranty, or the supplier (B2). D&G felt that B2 had a responsibility to ensure that 
Miss B received a tv that was fit for purpose and that it was also B2s responsibility to ensure 
that the faulty tv was sent back to B3 for inspection. D&G said that the replacement tv wasnt 
fit for purpose, so theyve now cancelled Miss Bs policy and issued her a refund. 
Miss B also complained to B2 who offered her £100 compensation for her experience. 
Miss B was unhappy with D&Gs response and referred her complaint to our service for an 
independent review. Our investigator found in her assessment that D&Gs responsibility 
ended when the replacement tv was delivered and, as the claim was settled at that point, B2 
couldnt be considered as D&Gs agent (for the purposes of the events that happened 
afterwards) with the tv going missing and suffering damage.
Miss B didnt accept our investigators findings and the complaint was referred to me for a 
decision. I sent a copy of my provisional findings to both parties. 
D&G accepted my provisional findings. 
Miss B responded to say shed had contact with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
asked our Service to request additional information about a public liability policy D&G may 
have had. It was explained that as I regarded this complaint to be about appliance 
insurance, rather than a public liability policy, that wasnt something wed be doing. I also 
invited Miss B to provide copies of any correspondence she says shes had with the FCA 
that she felt was relevant to her complaint - but none was provided to our Service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
As no new evidence has been provided by either party, I see no reason to deviate from my 
intended findings as set out in my provisional decision. For completeness and as they form 
part of my final decision here, Ive included a copy of my key provisional findings below:
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss B and D&G that Im currently intending to come to a 
different outcome to our investigator  based on everything Ive seen so far. Ill explain why 
below. Whilst Miss B says that the tv suffered further damage whilst in the care of B2 - 
meaning B3 wouldnt inspect it, my decision isnt about any action taken by B3.
When coming to my decision, the key considerations I need to make are:
Have D&G fairly considered Miss Bs claim in line with the policy terms?;
Were B2 acting as D&Gs agent? And;
Have D&G treated Miss B fairly and reasonably throughout? If not, has Miss B lost 
out and what should happen to put things right?
When Miss B made D&G aware of the issues with her original purchase (tv1) and they 
accepted her claim, under this policy they shouldve either authorised a repair or a 
replacement tv. They chose to arrange for a replacement to be sent. I consider that decision 
fair. 
D&G have provided us with an example policy document. In relation to replacement 
products, the terms state:
Replacements
1. In some situations we will arrange to replace your product instead of repairing it
(for example where we cannot repair it or we decide that it is uneconomical for
us to repair it). In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your product
with one of a same or similar make and technical specification.In Miss Bs case, the replacement tv (tv2) was a different brand of tv. I still find it fair that 
Miss B wasnt sent the exact same replacement for tv1 as shed bought. D&G arranged, 
through B2, for the replacement tv to be delivered to Miss B. Im satisfied that B2 were in 
effect acting as an agent for D&G when arranging for tv2 to be delivered to Miss B. Up until 
this point I consider that D&G had fairly dealt with and considered Miss Bs claim.
However Miss B says an issue quickly arose with tv2. In her complaint form, Miss B says the 
fault was noticeable on the evening that the tv was delivered. The fault was that the tv 
flashed vigorously. Miss B says it was this flashing that caused her to experience the health 
issues shes described. She says she immediately contacted D&G, B2 and B3  to notify 
them of the problem. 
D&G have told us that once the replacement was delivered, Miss B was only then covered 
for accidental damage until the manufacturers guarantee expired. The terms of the policy 
state:
We shall not be liable for:..
damage during delivery, installation or transportation of the product by a
third party who is not our agent;
any breakdown cost already covered by any manufacturers, suppliers or
engineers guarantee or warranty on a product;
But crucially here, I find that D&Gs responsibility didnt end when B2 delivered tv2 to Miss B. 
I say this because they hadnt fully settled the claim under the policy terms  as tv2 
seemingly was faulty. D&G is responsible for providing a working replacement, so in not 
doing so it hadnt fulfilled its side of the contract.
So it follows that in this particular case - what happened afterwards whilst tv2 was in B2s 
care, ultimately happened when B2 were still acting as D&Gs agent. I understand that 
D&G dispute this and have referred to the Consumer Rights Act to say that B2 or B3 are 
responsible. But in this specific case, D&G hadnt settled the claim fully - so I consider that 
their responsibilities didnt simply end on delivery of tv2. 
In their final response letter, D&G stated: .the [tv2] was not fit for purpose I have cancelled 
the original plan.. and a refund of premiums was issued. I consider this fair. 
D&G were positive and helpful by arranging for B2 to collect tv2 again from Miss B and its 
unfortunate that the tv2 was sold again by B2 - but human error can and does happen. 
However, if things had happened as they should have, Miss B wouldve been delivered a 
fully working, fit for purpose replacement tv - and the subsequent issues most likely wouldnt 
have arisen. 
Ive then gone on to consider what Miss Bs loss is here. Whilst she has my sympathy for her 
health circumstances, Ive seen no supporting medical evidence to back up what shes said 
about the faulty tv2 either causing or even worsening the medical issues described. 
In any instance, this policy covers damage or faults arising in electrical goods - rather than 
the injuries Miss B claims shes suffered here. I agree with Miss B that the terms dont strictly 
state this, but itd be an unreasonable interpretation of the policy terms to consider that it 
offered cover for the personal injury shes claiming. Ive also kept in mind that D&G couldnt 
have reasonably foreseen the issues that would arise with tv2. When B2 (acting as D&Gs 
agent) arranged delivery of tv2, it wouldve been in good faith. D&G will not have physically 
seen nor inspected the replacement tv2 before it was sent to Miss B. I also think its very unlikely that B2 will have done so either given that theyre a large online retailer dealing with 
high volumes of orders and products. 
When tv2 was arranged to be collected by B2, awaiting B3s inspection, a replacement tv 
(tv3) was provided initially on loan, but then permanently to Miss B by B2. As I still consider 
that B2 were acting as D&Gs agent at this time, I consider this a fair and positive action. 
This is the point at which I would say D&G had fulfilled their side of the insurance contract. 
The purpose of the policy Miss B had was to put her back in the position she would be in had 
the issues with her original tv not happened. Insurance isnt intended to place the customer 
in a more advantageous position. Therefore Im satisfied that overall she hasnt lost out here 
(in terms of the insured item) - as shes ultimately received an acceptable, fit for purpose 
replacement tv. 
I also havent seen any supporting evidence to make me think that D&G have treated Miss B 
unfairly when deciding not to accept responsibility for the health issues she says she 
experienced as a result of being sent tv2. Ive already explained that this policy didnt offer 
cover for such eventualities. 
However, I do think that overall the claim couldve been handled better. For example; the 
time delays caused by tv2 going missing when under the care of B2 will have caused some 
trouble and upset here and the uncertainty over whether D&G or B2 were responsible for 
what went wrong with tv2. Ive noted that B2 already offered Miss B £100 which she 
declined. 
Summary
In my opinion, in this particular case, D&Gs responsibility didnt end when the faulty 
tv2 was delivered - as they hadnt fully settled the claim. So B2 were, in effect, acting 
as D&Gs agent.
I dont intend to direct D&G to make any payment in relation to Miss Bs personal 
injury claim. I havent seen enough to conclude that D&G should be held liable for 
any personal injury to Miss B. In any case, I think such a claim would be more 
suitable for a court of law - rather than us as an informal alternative.
I consider that the insurance claim Miss B made has ultimately been settled fairly and 
reasonably.   
I currently intend to direct D&G to pay £150 for the trouble and upset caused here. 
So, having carefully considered all of the evidence I partially uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
I direct Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay £150 to Miss B for the trouble and upset 
caused here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
should follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman