DRN-3306503
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund transactions (made 
using his HSBC credit card) to a fraudulent binary options company (Golden Markets). 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mr R has told our service:
He made an investment with a company called Golden Markets for about €10,000 
(from 2 May to 31 August 2018).
At first, he was led to believe Golden Markets operated as a legitimate investment 
firm.  However, after conducting some research, he discovered that he had in fact 
been scammed.
He contacted HSBC about this so it could try to recover his funds, but this was 
unsuccessful.
He then raised a complaint with HSBC which he also referred to our service.
Mr R disputes four transactions:
£220.59 (plus £6.60 transaction fee) to OSG Broker (2 May 2018).
£4,411.74 (plus £131.91 transaction fee) to BO Trader (2 May 2018).
£1768.55 (plus £52.88 transaction fee) to BO Trader (8 May 2018).
£893.31 (plus £26.71 transaction fee) to Golden Markets (19 July 2018).
HSBC told our service that it considered a section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.  However, it said because of the type of transactions Mr R made, the claim was 
unsuccessful.
One of our investigators investigated Mr Rs complaint and upheld it.  He said there was a 
warning about OSG Broker on the Alerts Portal of the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO) published on 6 October 2017.  So, he considered that 
HSBC should have updated its internal alerts to include OSG Broker and therefore 
intervened on Mr Rs payment to them.  Our investigator thought had HSBC intervened, it is 
likely the fraud could have been prevented, so he asked it to refund Mr Rs money.
Mr R accepted our investigators findings, but HSBC did not.  In the interest of conciseness, I 
will repeat HSBCs response here, which it has helpfully summarised its key points in the 
conclusions section of its submissions:
Overall, we consider that that the adjudicators view is unsupportable. As such, we do 
not accept that we should be held responsible for Mr Rs loss for the following 
reasons:
oThe opinion is a templated document that does not properly engage with the 
facts. This makes its conclusions unsafe;
oThe opinion proceeds on the basis that the merchant to which only the first 
Payment was made was the subject of an IOSCO warning. This appears to 
be incorrect;
oThere is a striking lack of detail as regards the background of this complaint 
and only limited information on key issues has been provided in support, 
which raises further concerns;
oThe adjudicator has selectively quoted from the FSA Consultation Paper, and 
misapplies it to this opinion;
oThe adjudicators findings in respect of our actions are unrealistic and unfair. 
In particular, the assertion that we ought to have acted before the FCA 
warning was given and the amount of information we were expected to obtain 
from Mr R;
oThe adjudicator seeks to apply retrospective regulation by the back door  
that is not the purpose of your service. If the regulator intended that we be 
obliged to take steps to block payments to merchants one month after they 
were the subject of an FCA or IOSCO warning they would have made this 
clear. They did not;
oThe adjudicators contributory negligence assessment is fundamentally 
flawed and unsupportable.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 18 January 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint in part.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am of the view that this complaint should be upheld in part for reasons I 
set out below.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity 
HSBC is aware of our general position on PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud.  We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations.  It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail. 
It is common ground that the disputed payment was authorised by Mr R for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations (the Regulations), in force at the time.  This is 
because they were made by Mr R using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by HSBC. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr R was the 
victim of a sophisticated scam.  So, although he did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her bank 
account, Mr R is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably: Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams; 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of alerts about traders published by 
the FCA and/or IOSCO.  As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in 
its consultation paper entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting 
perpetrators and protecting victims  that it was good industry practice for firms to build up 
an updated watch-list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share 
timely and detailed intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, 
etc.  Whilst the regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to 
expect an international bank to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff 
within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the FCA and/or IOSCO.  In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bells  and lead to the payment 
being paused  pending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer. 
OSG Broker and BO Trader
Our investigator held that there is a warning published about OSG Broker on IOSCOs 
Investor Alerts Portal.  However, having looked carefully at the Alerts Portal, I cannot agree 
that there is such a warning about OSG Broker  nor is there one published on the FCAs 
website.
I have also looked to see if there are any warnings published about BO Trader on IOSCOs 
Investor Alerts Portal and/or the FCAs website.  Having done so, I can say that none are 
present.
It follows then that I cannot fairly say that HSBC should have blocked Mr Rs payments to 
OSG Broker and BO Trader and questioned him about them.  I say this because there were 
not any warnings published about these two merchants on IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal 
and/or the FCAs website.  So, I would not have expected HSBC to put the merchants on its 
watch-list and block payments being made to them.
For these reasons, I do not agree with the investigator that HSBC should refund to Mr R the 
payments he made to OSG Broker and BO Trader.
That said, I am of the view that Mr Rs payment to Golden Markets should be treated 
differently.
Golden Markets 
 
There was a warning about Golden Markets on the FCAs website published on 25 May 
2018.  This warning was published more than a month before Mr Rs payment to Golden 
Markets on 19 July 2018.  It is not unreasonable to expect a firm the size of HSBC that 
regularly updates its internal alerts to include information about payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without permission.  I accept that the warning did not 
specifically relate to binary-options trading; and it did not necessarily follow from the nature 
of the warning in isolation that these were fraudsters.  Given the timing of the alert relative 
to the first payment, I think HSBC ought to have automatically blocked it; as it had a fair 
chance to update and communicate its watch-list between the warning being published and 
the payment being made.  The bank had constructive if not actual notice that the payee 
might not be a legitimate merchant  therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have 
properly questioned Mr R before processing all the payments in order to satisfy itself that all 
was well. 
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mr R and asking 
suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that he would have explained what 
he was doing.  In such circumstances, whilst the bank had no duty to protect him from a 
bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited him to check whether the 
payee was registered with the FCA.  It could have also explained its own customer 
experiences with merchants like Golden Markets in that customers would often be 
prevented from withdrawing available balances.  After all, at that time, there was 
information in the public domain  which a bank ought to have known even if a lay 
consumer ought no  about the very high risks associated with binary options including 
many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European 
Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 
scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally, and so forth). 
There is no evidence that HSBC provided Mr R with any meaningful warnings or gave 
him other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payment he was making to Golden 
Markets.  It was a missed opportunity to intervene. 
Therefore, I am satisfied that HSBC should refund to Mr R the payments he made 
directly to Golden Markets.
Chargeback
I have considered whether Mr R had any valid chargeback rights regarding his payments to 
OSG Broker and BO Trader under the Visa chargeback scheme.  Having done so, I am not 
persuaded he did.  I say this because he did not have the evidence needed to satisfy the 
requirements of the Visa scheme rules.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
I have also considered whether Mr Rs payments to OSG Broker and BO Trader attracted 
any section 75 rights.  As a starting point, I think it would be helpful if I set out what the 
section says:
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor 
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000So, the first requirement is that there is a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement falling 
under section 12(b) or 12(c).  
In this case, Mr R is the debtor, HSBC the creditor and Golden Markets the supplier (as 
shown on Mr Rs paperwork and on HSBCs business file submissions).  This relationship is 
referred to as a DCS chain and needs to exist  unbroken  for section 75 rights to apply.  
However, as Mr Rs payments (prior to 19 July 2018) were made directly to OSG Broker and 
BO Traders, rather than Golden Marks  this amounts to a break in the DCS chain.
I havent seen any persuasive evidence showing that OSG Broker and BO Traders 
acted as payment processors, or that there was an agreement with them and Golden 
Markets regarding payment.
Therefore, I am satisfied that HSBC was not liable to Mr R under section 75 regarding 
his payments to OSG Broker and BO Traders.
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC responded to say it agreed with my proposed resolution on a gesture of goodwill 
basis only.
Mr R responded stating that he made the payments concerned in the belief they were going 
to Golden Markets.  He explained that he does not know how he could have been expected 
to provide evidence of this, as the payments were taken over the telephone.  For these 
reasons, he says, amongst other things, The charge back under section 75 should still 
hold.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mr Rs response, the position I set out in my provisional findings 
remain the same.  I say this because whilst I appreciate what Mr R has said  
unfortunately, this does not change the strict criteria which needs to be met under 
section 75 of the 1974 Act.  As this was not satisfied, I cannot say HSBC was liable to 
Mr R under section 75 regarding his payments to OSG Broker and BO Traders.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part.  I therefore direct HSBC UK 
Bank Plc:
To refund to Mr R the money he paid directly to Golden Markets, including any 
applicable fees (totalling £920.02); plus
Interest (less any tax properly deductible)  either (i) at the simple rate of 8% per 
year on the payment from the date it was paid to the date of settlement; or (ii) if the 
account accrued interest because the relevant statement balances werent paid in 
full, interest should be paid at the rate actually charged for the payment from the date 
Mr R reported the fraud to HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Should an outstanding balance be owed on Mr Rs credit card account relating to the 
payment to Golden Markets and/or interest on that payment, HSBC UK Bank Plc is 
entitled to repay this balance first from the settlement outlined in the bullets above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman