DRN-3226400
The complaint
Mr C complains Weatherbys Bank Limited, trading as Weatherbys Private Bank 
(Weatherbys) has refused to refund him three disputed transactions made using online 
banking.
What happened
Mr C opened a current account with Weatherbys in 2009. Around 2015, Mr C employed a
new secretary to help him on an ad-hoc basis with his business affairs. I will now refer to the
secretary as Mr S.
Mr C paid Mr S through his current account. No payments were made on Mr Cs online
banking facility until a beneficiary was set-up in May 2019. That beneficiaries surname was
spelt with one letter missing to that of Mr S full name.
To set-up the beneficiary a username and online PIN number was required. This was then
followed by Weatherbys sending a one-time-passcode or OTP to Mr Cs mobile phone
number. This number was then inserted into the security field on Weatherbys online banking
platform to complete the process of setting up a new beneficiary.
A payment of £200 was then sent from Mr Cs bank account using the online facility to the
newly set-up beneficiary.
About a year later in May 2020, an online transaction was made which sent £48,000 to the
beneficiary account as set-up a year earlier. The following day a further £5,000 was sent to
this account also using Mr Cs online banking facility.
Just over a week later Mr C contacted Weatherbys to query the payments and explain that
he hadnt authorised them. He went onto explain Mr S had defrauded him and breached his
trust. Mr C also explained he had contacted the police and provided Weatherbys with a
crime reference number.
Amongst other things Mr C asked Weatherbys to refund him the transactions and questioned
why its security measures did not stop them. Weatherbys looked into the matter and it did
not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
In summary Weatherbys said:
Mr S likely had access to Mr Cs online banking security credentials. And this
contravenes Weatherbys terms and conditions
Weatherbys acted properly in validating the payments using its established 
processes. So it is not liable for them
Mr C is the victim of employee fraud and should seek remedy through the police 
services
Weatherbys hasnt been able to recover any of the funds from the beneficiary 
account as no funds remain
In line with regulatory standards, Weatherbys online banking system uses two-factor 
authentication to set up and pay new beneficiaries. Subsequent payments to that 
beneficiary are deemed to be genuine
Weatherbys provides both telephone online banking services. And it is not unusual 
for its clients to use multiple methods of generating payments
Unhappy with what Weatherbys said, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. Mr C has
made several complaint points, some of the key ones are:
- He didnt opt for online banking and his application form shows this. Mr C didnt 
realise that looking at a bank statement online was part of Weatherbys online 
banking services
- Weatherbys should have noticed the large sum of £48,000 transferred in May 2020 
as unusual given Mr Cs usual pattern of spending. Mr C is disappointed Weatherbys 
does not have systems in place to alert it when something like this happens
- Had Weatherbys called Mr C to query the large £48,000 or the £5,000 transaction, 
the payments would not have gone through. All Mr Cs previous payments have 
either been by cheque or over telephone banking
- Weatherbys say Mr S was a trusted beneficiary. But Mr C made regular payments to 
him with his name spelt correctly  not with a letter missing. Weatherbys should have 
picked up on this
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. They only considered the disputed
transactions for £200 and £48,000 and not the £5,000. Thats because the £5,000
transaction was the subject of court proceedings at that time.
The investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C didnt agree with what our investigator said. Amongst points previously made, Mr C
argued his personal circumstances, vulnerabilities and customer profile  which includes his
age - meant Weatherbys should have shown a higher duty of care towards him by better
monitoring his account. He added he knew little about the online banking and doesnt recall
having a conversation with Weatherbys about any change in his online banking in 2015.
Mr C also said even though Mr S had authenticated himself as a payee previously,
Weatherbys should still have called Mr C to confirm the validity of such a large payment of
£48,000. 
As Mr C didnt agree with what our investigator said, the matter was passed to me to decide.
Mr C says he has now stayed any court action regards the £5,000 disputed transaction. So 
my decision will consider this amount too.
As part of this process both Mr C and Weatherbys were given a further opportunity to
provide any relevant information and/or present further arguments. In summary, Weatherbys
added:- Weatherbys clients are generally high net worth, and so its not unusual for large 
sums of payments to be made using its online service
- Given the particular industry Weatherbys clients are typically involved in, a £48,000 
payment would be fairly common place. As Mr C is also involved in this industry, and 
as hes been, or still is, involved in several partnerships and syndicates, large 
payments from his account are not unusual
- There have been no failed attempts or logins on the online audit trail. As Mr C most 
likely left his online security details accessible to Mr S, this amounts to gross 
negligence
- A correct username and password were needed to set up a new beneficiary. 
Additionally a One Time Password (OTP), which was sent to Mr Cs mobile phone, 
was also needed at the point of setting a new beneficiary up. So as Mr S was an 
approved beneficiary on Mr Cs online banking account, the risk of fraud is reduced
- Mr C failed to notice, and thereby alert Weatherbys, to the initial £200 that was sent 
to Mr S account at the same time he was set-up as a beneficiary. Had he done so, 
Weatherbys would have placed an alert on the account which would have prevented 
further payments to Mr S
- The Police are still investigating the matter against Mr S
- As Mr C gave details for his online banking to Mr S, its not fair nor appropriate that 
he seeks to recover these funds from Weatherbys rather than through legal action
Relevant considerations 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I'm required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Of particular importance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSR 
2017) which apply to transactions like the ones Mr C disputes. Among other things the PSR 
2017 include the following:
Regulation 67 of the PSR 2017 explains:
67. (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the
payer for the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent to
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; or
(b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that payment
transaction forms part.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments.
Gross negligenceWhether a customer has acted with "gross negligence" is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis taking into account all the circumstances. The term is not
defined in the PSR or in the Payment Services Directive. However, recital 72 of the second 
Payment Services Directive provides as follows:
"In order to assess possible negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment 
service user account should be taken of all of the circumstances. The evidence and degree 
of alleged negligence should generally be evaluated according to national law. However 
while the concept of negligence implies a breach of a duty of care, gross negligence should 
mean more than mere negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of 
carelessness, for example keeping the credentials used to authorise a payment transaction 
beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily detectable by third 
parties..."
Reflecting on this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, says: "... we interpret "gross negligence" to be a higher standard than the 
standard of negligence under common law. The customer needs to have shown a very 
significant degree of carelessness."
Although not specific to this case, the FCAs interpretation is of value as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous interpretive guidance, and because it 
informs the meaning of a concept that had been in place for some time in the Banking Code.
Negligence is often referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. And, as I have 
described above, the use of gross negligence, rather than mere negligence, suggests a 
lack of care that goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence or carelessness.
So, if I find the disputed transactions were unauthorised, I have to consider whether Mr Cs 
actions fell so far below the standard of a reasonable person that he failed with gross 
negligence to meet his obligations as a payment service user or to comply with his accounts 
terms and conditions.
But that is not the end of the story:
Regulated firms like Weatherbys are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6)
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps to:
Identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
Look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of Practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of)
This means there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on the matter and said I was planning to partially uphold the 
complaint. Ive copied the relevant extract from my provisional decision which gives my 
reasons for doing so below: 
Did Mr C authorise the payments? 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Cs online banking security
credentials were used to make the disputed transactions. So, that means Im satisfied the 
transactions were authenticated in line with what the PSRs say. But the PSRs say that is
not, on its own, enough to enable Weatherbys to hold Mr C liable.
So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not Mr C
consented to the payments being made. Having given this considerable thought, Im
persuaded, on balance Mr C didnt consent to these payments. I say that because:
-Ive seen statements of Mr Cs account paying Mr S  with the name spelt correctly. 
They show Mr C paying Mr S generally in the low hundreds of pounds on a frequent 
basis. This is consistent with what Mr C has told us about his working arrangement 
with Mr S. So to pay him large amounts in the thousands of pounds is definitely out of 
place with that
-Mr C has argued he didnt know he had online banking, but he does accept he had 
the facility to check his statements online. Mr C also questions being given any of the 
security credentials he needed to access online banking. He says he didnt opt for 
online services at application.
-Weatherbys have given me a copy of Mr Cs bank account application form. This is 
signed and dated in 2009. There is a box to select online banking, and I note this 
hasnt been completed. But theres another section which asks for three words to 
help set-up security questions. This has been completed. So I think this would have 
been a strong indicator to Weatherbys that he wanted online banking  even though 
he didnt think it was anything more than viewing his statements
-Weatherbys has also given me a call recording from 2015. Having spoken to Mr C 
myself, Im satisfied its him thats called Weatherbys. In short, this call is about Mr C 
no longer having access to online banking and he thinks its a mix up with the 
passwords. He is then told that due to system changes he will need to deregister and 
then re-register with new PIN details. Weatherbys tell Mr C as hasnt used his online 
banking much, it will send him the new security credentials needed. Mr C says he 
only wants to view his statements and not use the online banking facilities.
-Overall, Im persuaded Mr C had online banking which he set-up and initiated. Im 
also satisfied he only wanted it to view statements and that its likely he didnt even 
know it had the capability to do other things like send payments. Because of this Im 
persuaded Mr C didnt likely authorise the payments that were made using online 
banking-Having considered Mr Cs customer profile and the vulnerabilities he says he has 
with technology because of this, and as no other online banking payments were ever 
made from 2009 onwards other than to Mr S, Im persuaded Mr Cs testimony is 
genuine. That is, he didnt authorise these payments, but was deceived by his 
employee, Mr S, at the time
-Mr Cs actions in reporting the matter both to Weatherbys and to the Police also 
demonstrate what I think a reasonable person would do when discovering theyve 
been the victim of fraud. I havent seen anything that undermines or brings into 
question him being complicit
Did Mr C fail with intent or gross negligence?
Given what Ive said above in the relevant considerations section, Im persuaded Mr C has 
failed with gross negligence to meet his obligations as a payment service user. And thereby 
hasnt complied with his accounts terms and conditions.
In order to have pulled off this deception, Mr S initially needed Mr Cs user ID and password. 
Then a transaction PIN number would be required and an OTP that was sent to Mr Cs 
mobile phone had to be entered to set himself up as a beneficiary  albeit with a mis-spelt 
name. Most of these security credentials would then be needed to make further payments in 
the future.
Following our investigators view, Mr C has told us these security credentials were written 
down and they werent locked away. He added that Mr S would have been able to get to 
these details and he would have known what they were for. Mr C also explained that Mr S 
knew where he kept all his things, including his mobile and that he had built up a lot of trust 
with him over the many years he worked for him.
Mr C was however clear that he didnt give Mr S permission to use his online banking and 
emphasised he didnt know he had it. 
So even though Mr C didnt understand fully what services his online banking gave him, its 
clear he left important security credentials in a position that were easily accessible to Mr S. 
Mr C has also said the he would have conversations with Weatherbys telephone banking in 
Mr S presence. So, to my mind, Mr Cs actions although done on trust, amount to more than 
just mere negligence.
This means, Im satisfied Mr Cs lack of care goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence 
or carelessness and is therefore grossly negligent. As Ive said before, this would mean Mr C 
ought to be held liable for the transactions.
So, I know need to consider if this outcome is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Should SBI have done more to protect Mr C from financial harm?
Mr Cs customer profile, which includes his age and account activity, would have been well 
known to Weatherbys. I say that because of the type of bank Weatherbys says it is  they 
deal prominently with high net worth clients who work in a specific industry. Additionally, 
Mr C used to regularly call Weatherbys to carry out his banking activities.Having looked through Mr Cs bank records, I can see he didnt use online banking to make 
payments. The only payments made are those sent to Mr S for £200 in 2019 and then the 
£48,000 and £5,000 payments a year later in May 2020.
Weatherbys have given me records of banking activity for this account, which was in Mr Cs 
sole name, from 2016. Having carefully reviewed these, I note there have been large 
payments in and out of the account. These are mainly in the thousands, but there has been 
occasion when a few payments have been in the tens of thousands of pounds.
These are few and far apart. The largest of which is around £35,000 with the reference 
related to a property. Most of the other relate to transfers between Mr Cs personal and joint 
accounts which are typically related to the industry Mr C works in.
Importantly, none of these have been made using online banking. They all appear as they 
were either made using a cheque or as Mr C tells us, instructed by him over the telephone. 
Mr Cs online banking technical records support this.
I note Weatherbys say its customers use multiple methods, including online services, to 
make payments. But for the purposes of this complaint, Im looking at Mr Cs banking activity 
and his behaviour not that of other customers. After all, given the type of customer Mr C is, 
and the type of service Weatherbys provide, Id imagine it would have a very close 
understanding of its individual customer accounting needs and behaviours.
So, given the way Mr C used his account; that being well known to Weatherbys; the smaller 
values of payments usually made; that online banking was pretty much never used before; a 
substantially and unusually large online payment being made of £48,000, Im persuaded 
there was enough here for Weatherbys to have been alerted and for it to have taken steps to 
find out if the payment was genuine.
That means I think Weatherbys should have done more and taken additional steps to protect 
Mr C from the possibility of suffering financial harm.
I note Weatherbys says it had no reason to doubt the authenticity of the £48,000 given the 
beneficiary had been set up on the account the year before. To my mind, its unusual that no 
other online transfers were made for nearly a year after the first was set-up and made. And 
when the service was used it was for a substantively large amount to a known payee who 
typically received payments in the hundreds of pounds, and not in the tens of thousands.
Weatherbys has argued Mr C has been, or still is, party to other joint account and syndicates 
- given the industry hes involved in  where large payments are not unusual. Weatherbys 
have also given me records to show this. But they are separate accounts used for different 
purposes. The disputed payments all took place from Mr Cs personal account, and Ive 
already explained why the £48,000 should have flagged as unusual to Weatherbys.
Weatherbys say Mr C should have picked up on the £200 online payment in 2019 and raised 
it. But this payment was in line with what Mr C typically paid Mr S, so I can understand why 
he didnt pick up on it. I also note the spelling in the name when setting up this beneficiary 
wasnt picked up. But this was before banks brought in systems to check this sort of thing.
So, this means I think Weatherbys should have done more at the point the £48,000 payment 
was made to protect Mr C from potentially suffering from financial harm. And had it of taken 
steps to contact Mr C to question it, then its most likely the subsequent £5,000 payment 
wouldnt have been made either.I think its incumbent on Weatherbys to ensure it protects its customers from financial harm 
especially as it, as a bank, is well placed to know about fraud and scams. I also think Mr C s 
age is a factor when considering how it goes about doing this.
So after weighing everything up, I dont think Mr C authorised the transactions in dispute. But 
he did fail with gross negligence to protect his security credentials and should as a result be 
held liable for them. But Weatherbys should have done more to protect Mr C from financial 
harm. And had it have done so, Im persuaded Mr C is likely to have only lost out financially 
on the first payment of the three he disputes.
Mr C would have no doubt been caused stress and worry with everything thats happened. 
He also would have been inconvenienced in trying to get this matter resolved. So because of 
that I think Weatherbys should pay him compensation
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr C said he was happy to accept my decision. Weatherbys do not agree, and have made 
the following arguments: 
- The provisional decision is inconsistent. It says Mr C was grossly negligent, so 
Weatherbys question on what legal basis it is being held liable. The police 
investigation is still ongoing. 
- Mr S, Mr Cs assistant, admitted to taking the money but said he was owed it 
- Its questionable as to why Mr C initiated a small claims process in court for only the 
£5,000 when he could have claimed up to £50,000. This suggest Mr C thinks Mr S 
has a valid claim on funds only over £5,000
- What protection will Weatherbys have if Mr Cs small claim is successful given it may 
return funds to him
- If the police find Mr S owes Mr C the money, and if they are able to recover some of 
the funds, will this service compensate Weatherbys for its loss? 
I will now decide this matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I note Weatherbys did not agree 
and have made further arguments. Ill respond to them here. 
It is accurate to say I found Mr C to have been grossly negligent for how he kept his security 
credentials easily accessible  and given he was aware Mr S knew where this was kept. But 
I then moved onto say Weatherbys should have done more to protect Mr C from financial 
harm. 
Ive already said that when considering what is fair and reasonable, I'm required to take into 
account: relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. And in the relevant considerations section above, I also said the following: Regulated firms like Weatherbys are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6)
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps to:
Identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
Look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of Practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of)
This means there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help customers from the possibility of financial harm.
So, it is for these reasons, that I have found basis to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C has said Mr S admitted to taking the money. But I found in my provisional decision that 
Mr C didnt authorise these  in other words he was defrauded. 
Mr C has said he only went to the court and started a claim for £5,000 due to the costs 
involved with starting a claim for the much larger amount. This sound plausible to me. But I 
dont think it matters given Mr C has stayed any court action to see what the outcome of my 
decision will be. 
Given Im upholding Mr Cs complaint, he should cease any court action against 
Weatherbys. And if he did, Weatherbys would no doubt explain to the court what has 
happened so there is no double recovery. 
Lastly, if the police were able to recover any of Mr Cs stolen funds, Id imagine it would 
speak to Weatherbys in the course of its investigations. Id also expect Mr C to explain hes 
received his money back.  
In this decision, Ive had to think about whether Weatherbys has done what it should have. 
And as I dont think it has, I am directing it to put things right by placing Mr C back in the 
position had it done what it should have. 
Its not for me to comment on a criminal matter. But for the sake of completeness, should the 
Police recover any funds and return them to Mr C, Weatherbys could consider pursuing Mr C 
for double recovery should that ever happen.  
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, Weatherbys should: 
- Refund £53,000 to Mr C- Waive any fee(s) that have been charged to Mr C as a result of what has happened; 
and 
- Pay Mr C £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. Weatherbys Bank Limited must 
now put things right as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman