DRN-1204342
 
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) rejected his claim under his buildings 
insurance policy for storm damage to his roof. 
What happened
Mr O says water dripped into his house through his flat felt roof because of damage caused 
by a storm on 10 June 2019. He arranged for a roofing contractor to make a temporary 
repair and then asked him to replace the roof covering. 
Three weeks after the damage occurred, Mr O made a claim for the storm damage to UKI. 
He had by this time replaced the roof covering. UKI sent a loss adjuster to look at the repair 
and photos of the damaged roof covering. The assessor reported that the water entered the 
property during heavy rainfall because of wear and tear to the roof covering, not because of 
storm damage. UKI rejected Mr Os claim against his buildings insurance as damage due to 
wear and tear isnt covered by the policy.
Mr Os roofing contractor reported to UKI that a one-off incident of snow, ice, frost or hail 
damaged the roof and, in his opinion, the roof covering didnt show signs of wear and tear. 
UKI believed the roof covering had reached the end of its expected lifespan and the photos 
of the roof felt before replacement showed rippling, suggesting it wasnt properly secured to 
the roof. UKI still rejected the claim but it made a payment of £150 to Mr O for the 
inconvenience caused to him by its delays and poor service it provided during calls with its 
handlers.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that UKIs decision to reject the claim 
was fair for the following reasons:
weather reports for the day Mr O says a storm damaged his roof showed that wind 
speeds didnt meet storm level;
the assessors inspection report states the photos of the roof covering show signs of 
wear and tear;
the buildings insurance doesnt cover wear and tear or damage caused gradually;
the first of the independent contractors reports says damage was caused by 
previous bad weather, and
the second of the reports states that snow, ice and hail caused the damage, none of 
which show in weather reports for the date of the damage.
 
However, our investigator felt that UKIs decision to pay Mr O £150 for its delays in handling 
his claim and its poor service during calls was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr O didnt agree with our investigators view because she only mentioned wind speeds 
when describing a storm but not the heavy rainfall which he says damaged his roof.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided that UKIs decision to decline Mr Os claim was fair in the circumstances. Ill 
explain why.
The first point for me to think about is whether there was a storm on the day in question  10 
June 2019. I looked at weather reports for that day, in the area where Mr O lives, and I see 
that rainfall did meet the definition of a wet storm. So, while wind speeds didnt meet the 
storm definition, I am satisfied there was a storm.
The next thing for me to consider is whether the roof damage was typical of storm damage. 
Rain leaked into Mr Os property through the roof during the rainfall which, on the face of it, 
could be typical of storm damage. If the roof covering was properly maintained and free of 
significant wear and tear then I would expect the buildings insurance to cover the cost of 
repair.
The final point for me to think about, then, is whether the storm was the main cause of the 
damage and its this point which persuades me that UKI acted fairly in rejecting Mr Os claim. 
His contractor repaired and then replaced the felt roof before Mr O reported the damage to 
UKI. So, UKI didnt have chance to properly inspect the roof for signs of damage, what 
caused it or whether it could be repaired rather than replaced. This means that UKIs 
position in assessing the claim was prejudiced and it had to rely on photos taken before the 
roof was replaced, the independent contractors report and its own loss adjusters report. I 
have considered the evidence and I am satisfied that UKI reached a reasonable conclusion 
about the cause of the damage for the following reasons.
The roof was around 10 years old and Mr O says it wasnt highlighted in the Homebuyers 
report when he bought the house two years earlier. However, unless it needed urgent 
attention at that time its unlikely to be included in this brief survey.
Mr Os contractor reported that the roof was damaged by an earlier incident of snow, ice, 
frost or hail. Although he went on to make his comments clearer  that it was likely a one off 
incident caused the damage - he didnt say it was heavy rainfall that caused the damage.
UKIs loss adjuster reported that from the photos there were signs of rippling in the felt and 
lifting from the roof, suggesting wear and tear. The buildings insurance policy doesnt cover 
wear and tear or damage which happened over a period of time:
 Just like most insurers we don't cover:
 Wear and tear
 Any damage caused gradually 
 
This is common to all building insurance policies and is intended to ensure that the one-off 
events are covered rather than the routine maintenance that all householders must 
undertake.Therefore, I am satisfied that UKI acted fairly in rejecting Mr Os claim because it is more 
likely the heavy rainfall simply revealed that the roof had become damaged over time rather 
than caused the damage. 
I also looked at the way UKI handled Mr Os claim and its clear that on occasions it didnt 
meet the standard of service that might be expected. There were delays in handling his 
claim and UKIs own investigation revealed shortfalls in the way its handlers had spoken with 
Mr O on the phone. I accept that Mr O will have been frustrated and inconvenienced by 
these service shortfalls and I note that UKI made a payment of £150 to Mr O by way of an 
apology. I am satisfied that this amount is fair and reasonable given the poor service 
identified. 
I understand that Mr O may be disappointed with my decision but I havent seen anything in 
the information available that persuades me a greater sum is warranted.
In summary, I think that UKIs decision to reject Mr Os claim was in accordance with the 
terms of his policy and was fair in all of the circumstances and I wont be asking it to pay the 
cost of his claim.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint about 
UK Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman