DRN-2718546
Complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the lack of help and support he received from Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited (Shop Direct) when he got in contact to explain that he was experiencing 
financial difficulty as a result of the pandemic. 
He is unhappy that Shop Direct continued adding interest to his catalogue shopping account 
and recorded adverse information on his credit file. 
  
Background
Mr Es account was up to date when his March 2020 statement was issued at the beginning 
of the pandemic. Mr E says he tried to get in contact with Shop Direct but was unable to get 
through before his March 2020 payment was due. When he did manage to get through to 
Shop Direct on 2 April 2020, explained he was self-employed and so unable to work 
because of the pandemic. Mr E was offered a 2-month payment break but was told interest, 
including deferred interest from his Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) purchases, would still 
accrue on his account and negative information recorded on his credit file. Mr E was 
unhappy when his BNPL purchases were added to his account balance and complained. 
One of adjudicators considered Mr Es complaint. She thought that while Shop Direct told  
Mr E he could apply for a Covid-19 payment deferral once these were being processed from 
14 April 2020 onwards, Shop Direct should have automatically applied one to Mr Es account 
bearing in mind what hed already said about his circumstances a few days earlier. So she 
upheld Mr Es complaint and told Shop Direct to place Mr Es account in the position it would 
be in had Covid-19 related deferral been in place from April 2020. She asked it to remove 
the interest charged as a result of Mr Es BNPL purchases being added to his balance and 
also remove the adverse information recorded. 
Shop Direct eventually accepted our adjudicators conclusions. But it went further and 
refunded all of the interest applied during what would have been the deferral period. Mr E 
didnt think this went far enough and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Shop Direct has already agreed to 
do to put things right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So Im not going to ask it to 
do anything more. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Mr E contacted Shop Direct and explained that he wasnt able to make payment prior to the 
regulators temporary Covid-19 guidance being in place. Nonetheless Shop Direct appears 
to have gone further than placing Mr Es account in the position it would have been in had 
the regulators guidance been in place when he got in contact on 2 April 2020  so it has 
effectively gone further than simply applying the regulators guidance retrospectively. Shop 
Direct has removed all interest applied during the payment break period and also removed 
the adverse information recorded. So Mr Es account is in a better position now than it would 
have been in had a Covid-19 payment deferral been applied. 
Mr E says that this doesnt go far enough as other interest has since been added. Shop 
Direct was entitled to add interest as a Covid-19 payment deferral isnt an automatic interest 
free option and deferrals are only really supposed to provide temporary help for a limited 
period. But, in any event, it seems as though the interest Shop Direct is refunding is 
everything thats been added since Mr E got in touch in April 2020. 
Since the end of Mr Es payment break he has been asked to complete an income and 
expenditure assessment so it can be determined what he is able to repay and whether a 
longer-term arrangement  potentially charging less interest - may be more suitable for him. I 
would encourage him to get in contact with Shop Direct about this. And I would also remind 
Shop Direct of its obligation to exercise forbearance should Mr E currently be experiencing 
financial difficulty and it choose to collect payments from him. But in the interim period, Im 
satisfied that the actions Shop Direct has taken in relation to Mr Es account thus far are fair 
and reasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr E is also unhappy at the wait times he experienced and being unable to 
get through to Shop Direct. I know that Shop Directs telephone lines would no doubt have 
been much busier than usual bearing in mind the situation in general at the time. And Mr E 
would have faced longer wait times. But Shop Direct also offered £50 for any distress and 
inconvenience it actions may have caused. 
Taking everything into account as well as the unprecedented nature of the global situation, 
Im satisfied that this represents a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience Shop Directs inability to respond to calls as it may usually have 
done may have caused. I leave it up to Mr E to decide whether he wishes to cash the 
cheque hes been sent. But Im not directing Shop Direct to pay him anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
has agreed to do to put things right for Mr E is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mr Es case. So Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman