DRN-3301484
The complaint
Mr M has complained about American International Group UK Limiteds (AIG) handling of 
a claim on his mobile phone insurance policy.
Reference to AIG includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M has a mobile phone policy as a benefit of his bank account. He lost his mobile phone 
and claimed on his policy. He gave AIG a number of documents in support of his claim. But 
AIG asked him for further information from his airtime provider including proof of IMEI usage, 
proof that it had been barred and proof of blacklisting. Mr M said his airtime provide refused 
to provide those things. AIG declined to pay the claim.
Mr M complained about AIGs service. AIG acknowledged that it didnt get everything right 
and upheld part of Mr M's complaint. But it said that it was reasonable for it to decline his 
claim. 
Mr M brought his complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She 
thought AIG had declined the claim fairly. Mr M didn't agree so his complaint's been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to instruct AIG to take any further action.
Mr M's policy is clear that AIG can request additional information from him in order to 
validate a claim. And, as long as its requests are reasonable, I don't think theres anything 
unfair about that. In this case AIG asked Mr M for evidence from his airtime provider, 
including proof that the phone had been barred and blacklisted. That would show that the 
phone had almost certainly been genuinely lost. So I think AIG's request was entirely 
reasonable.
Mr M said that his airtime provider refused to give him that information. He said it also 
wouldn't give him a letter setting out that refusal. That would seem rather unusual, and I 
think these are things Mr M should be able to give to AIG.
Thats because I'm aware that its not unusual for mobile phone insurers for ask for the 
information AIG asked for, such as proof of barring. And I think most airtime providers are 
used to such requests and will generally comply with them. I note that Mr M's airtime 
provider is a well-known communications company. So I would have thought it was used to 
receiving and replying to information requests of that nature. And, if it was refusing to 
provide this information in Mr M's case, as its customer, I would expect it to be able to 
explain to him why in an email or a letter. 
But Mr M hasnt provided either the information AIG asked for to validate his claim or a letter 
from his airtime provider explaining why it won't supply that information. And without either of 
those things, I think it was reasonable for AIG to decline Mr M's claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm not going to instruct AIG to take any further action
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman