DRN-2859491
The complaint
Miss B complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss B took out two Lending Stream loans as follows:
Loan 
numberDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest (monthly) 
repayment
1 13/05/2017 31/10/2017 6 months £400.00 £141.20
2 28/11/2017 Debt Sold 24 weeks £1,100.00 £447.92(in January 2018)
Miss B mainly said that Lending Stream failed to conduct proportionate checks and it could 
have done more before providing these loans.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss B and Lending Stream told us about these 
loans.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Miss B disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint. 
She mainly said that her credit report showed a total of 15 debt recovery/collections 
accounts and reflected a total debt level of £51,572 when she took out loan 1  and the 
same information (with only slightly less total debt) when she took out loan 2. She said that 
whilst the debt level was being reduced, it showed the finance was already unaffordable due 
to her existing debt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. After looking at the complaint afresh, Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
Lending Stream provided Miss B with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Miss B before providing it. Our website sets out 
what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream told us it agreed to Miss Bs applications after carrying out affordability 
checks and it relied on information Miss B provided about her monthly income and 
expenditure and the results of credit checks it carried out.  
Keeping in mind everything that Miss B and Lending Stream have said, I've looked at each 
loan in turn. 
loan 1
As this was her first loan with Lending Stream I think Lending Stream was broadly entitled to 
rely on the information Miss B provided. 
From what I can see, Miss B declared her income as £2000 and told Lending Stream her 
regular monthly expenditure was £825 and that she was also paying £175 towards her other 
existing credit. After independently doing checks on her income, Lending Stream relied on a 
slightly smaller figure than Miss B had said  it allowed for her having a minimum of 
£1818.18. But even after doing this, it looked like Miss B should have had around £818 left 
after paying all her monthly outgoings from this reduced income amount. So she should 
have had ample disposable income left over to cover the cost of the monthly repayments on 
this loan.
At this early stage, Miss B didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. 
Ive seen a summary of Lending Streams credit checks for this loan. I cant see that the 
results of Lending Streams credit checks identified any matters that shouldve particularly 
concerned a responsible lender at this stage. Its check results show that Miss B had six 
defaults  the most recent dating back 19 months. Lending Stream saw no evidence of any 
arrangement with creditors or any other kind of insolvency. Keeping in mind that applicants 
for credit of this type often have other lending and/or an impaired credit record, I dont think 
Lending Stream gathered any information that makes me think it shouldve either been 
prompted to do more checks before lending or take steps to verify what Miss B had said 
about her financial situation. And I think its lending decision was supported by the 
information it had gathered. 
So Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint about loan 1. 
loan 2
Miss B took out a significantly bigger loan this time. But I dont think this alone was a 
particular reason for Lending Stream to think she might have some underlying financial 
difficulty  also keeping in mind that there had been almost a months gap after Miss B paid 
loan 1 early and before she took out loan 2.
It seems Miss Bs declared income had trebled and she now reported take home pay of 
£6,000. Like our adjudicator I think its fair to say that we would expect a responsible lender 
to have made further enquiries to check if this figure could be relied on. Lending Stream told 
us it downgraded the income figure she had declared after carrying out independent checks  but still assessed affordability on the basis that she would have around £5,454 and 
monthly costs of approximately £800. I dont know if the income figure it used in its 
affordability assessment was reasonable. Ive seen no explanation for the increase. But 
I havent seen anything in the information available to me to make me think that even if 
Lending Stream had taken further steps to verify Miss Bs income this shouldve led it to 
conclude that the loan wasnt sustainably affordable. So I havent identified any fair reason 
for me to uphold the complaint. 
As Lending Stream worked out that Miss Bs disposable income would be around £4,654 
then the loan repayment for loan 2 wouldve looked comfortably to be sustainably affordable 
for Miss B. And I think its fair to say that this wouldve also been the case even if her pay 
had remained £2,000 as originally declared at loan 1. 
Lending Streams credit checks for this loan returned mostly the same information it had 
seen when it provided loan 1  although this time it was apparent that there had been a 
default within the previous month. 
But I dont think the overall picture Miss B presented shouldve been concerning to a 
responsible lender providing this sort of credit. Miss B hadnt shown any signs that shed 
found it hard to pay for loan 1. 
There wasnt anything else Lending Stream saw that shouldve alerted it to any underlying 
money problems. I think that Lending Stream gave Miss B fair opportunity to provide relevant 
information about her spending  and if she didnt mention all her other credit spending or 
the fact that she was struggling financially at the time I dont think its reasonable to expect 
Lending Stream to have known this. 
So Im not upholding the complaint about loan 2.  
Im very sorry that Miss B has found repaying her borrowing difficult. I accept that her actual 
financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided or the 
other information Lending Stream obtained. 
But for the reasons I've explained I think Lending Stream mostly did the proportionate 
checks Id expect to see, what it saw supported its lending decisions  and where it didnt do 
all the checking I think it couldve done, I havent seen enough to be able to say this this 
makes any difference to the outcome. 
I've taken into account the credit information Miss B has sent in response to the adjudicators 
view. But this doesnt change my view for the reasons I've set out above.
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Miss B but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
I take this opportunity to remind Lending Stream (or any third party) that it should discuss 
payment options with Miss B and treat her fairly and sympathetically if she still needs further 
time to pay any outstanding balances. 
And if Miss B would like help to manage her finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman