DRN-3583168
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund money she says was stolen 
from her account. 
What happened
In the early hours of 8 September 2021, £700 was transferred from Miss As account using 
telephone banking. This was following a number of failed attempts to withdraw cash from a 
cash machine using the banks contactless cash service. Miss A discovered the money was 
missing when she logged into her account to make a payment. She contacted Barclays and 
followed the banks advice to go into branch to verify her identity and raise a claim.  
Barclays investigated the claim but declined to refund the disputed payment. It maintained 
this position in its final response letter. It said that a one-time passcode sent to Miss As 
genuine mobile phone number had been used as authorisation when the transfer took place. 
It declined the claim as no point of compromise could be identified. 
Miss A referred her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into the matter 
but did not recommend it should be upheld. She explained that the transfer had been 
approved using the mobile banking app from a device linked to Miss As account profile 
around a week before. She concluded it was more likely than not that Miss A had authorised 
the disputed transaction as she couldnt see how a third party could have accessed her 
phone and her mobile banking to be able to register a new device without her cooperation. 
Miss A was upset by the Investigators position. She said it indirectly called her a fraudster. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
My further Investigation
After reviewing the complaint papers, I contacted Miss A to clarify some of the details. 
I explained to Miss A that the caller was able to pass the banks security by being verified in 
a mobile banking app. I explained they had a device which had Miss As mobile banking app 
set up on it. I explained the steps required to link a device to an account and told Miss A 
when the banks records show it happened. I asked Miss A if she could remember anything 
about that date and time. I also asked Miss A about an incoming credit of £700 that was paid 
into her account a few hours before the disputed transfer took place. 
Miss A explained she had no idea how the money had been taken out of her account. She 
explained the money was from a friend for a specific purpose. She said that her mobile 
phone is always with her, fully protected by a password and that she has not shared the 
device with anyone else. She couldnt recall the day Id asked about and didnt have any 
record of receiving text messages from Barclays around that time. Miss A suggested this 
was an insider job within the bank.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive considered the possible scenarios and 
decided on the balance of probabilities, what I think is most likely to have happened. Having 
done so, Im satisfied that the most likely scenario here is that the transactions were 
authorised by Miss A. Ill explain why below.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, which are the relevant regulations that apply to the 
disputed transfer, explain that account holders will usually be liable for payments theyve 
authorised and, generally speaking, banks will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Miss A 
made the disputed transfer herself or consented that someone else could make transactions 
from her account on her behalf, it would not be fair to ask Barclays to refund the money. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Miss As personal security information 
was used to make the disputed transfer. But the regulations relevant to this case say that 
this authentication is not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold her liable. So, I also 
need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss A 
consented to the payment being made.
Ive considered the options for whats most likely to have happened. These are that the 
disputed transfer was made by an unknown third party, by someone known to Miss A either 
with or without her permission, or by Miss A herself.
I have listened to the call recording where the disputed transfer was initiated. I have also 
listened to the call recordings from when Miss A reported the disputed transaction to the 
bank, along with recordings of the conversations Miss A has had with this service. Having 
done so, the voice of the caller that made the disputed transfer does not match the voice of 
the caller that reported the fraud and has engaged with us. This means I can rule out the 
possibility of Miss A having made the disputed transfer herself. 
But this doesnt automatically mean that the transaction is unauthorised and that Miss A 
should be refunded. It is possible for an account holder to consent to a payment and be held 
responsible for it even if they do not make it themselves. This means that when deciding if 
Barclays can fairly hold Miss A liable, I must consider the wider circumstances surrounding 
the payment in dispute. 
I have thought carefully about the things that were required for this payment to be made in 
the manner that it was. When the caller spoke to the bank, they answered security questions 
including Miss As full name and date of birth. They were logged into a mobile banking app 
linked to Miss As profile and completed in app verification with the banks advisor. 
The mobile banking app had been set up on the device a week before. To do this, the banks 
records show that one of Miss As existing devices was involved. To speedily register a new 
device, a user must log into mobile banking on the existing device and then generate an 
activation code to enter into the new device. They also need to enter the mobile number and 
set up a personalised memorable word. Text messages are also sent to alert a new device 
has been added. Barclays says that it sent a text message to Miss As registered mobile 
number, which is the same number that Miss A has used when speaking to this service. 
Miss A has not suggested there has been any problem with her mobile phone number or her 
devices at any point. 
Looking at the steps that were required to make this payment, I cant see how an unknown 
third party could have obtained all of the necessary information. Miss A has suggested that a 
member of the banks staff could have been involved. But I dont think thats the most likely explanation based on the information I have to consider here. Even if a member of bank staff 
could access Miss As personal information and passwords, no opportunistic third party 
could link a new device to Miss As online banking profile without the involvement of Miss As 
existing device.
So this leaves the possibility that the disputed transaction was made as a result of someone 
known to Miss A, either with or without her permission. Ive considered the possibility that 
someone known to Miss A was able to access her device and her personalised payment 
tools without her knowing and then has gone on to use that information to steal the money. 
But I cant be as sure as I would need to be that this is what happened. Its not surprising 
that Miss A cant remember anything about the day when the new device was first registered 
to her profile. It is over a year ago now. But the difficulty that presents is that it doesnt 
provide any information or insight as to how someone could have obtained the level of 
information and access required to register a new device and go on to make a telephone 
banking transfer at a later date without Miss As knowledge. 
Miss A has been clear that no-one had access to her devices as they have been kept in her 
possession and control. She has explained that they are password, fingerprint and Face ID 
protected. Shes explained that her online banking details have not been written down or 
stored anywhere that someone else could find. Shes told us that she never shared her card 
and PIN with anyone and that no-one has ever performed a transaction or withdrawn any 
money on her behalf. Against that backdrop, it is difficult to see how someone would have 
had the opportunity to steal Miss As personal information. 
There is no explanation for how someone else would have known Miss As personal 
information and her mobile banking security credentials and had the opportunity to connect a 
new device to her profile unless shed allowed them to do so. I realise that is a very difficult 
message to give, but that is what the available evidence leads me to conclude. This means 
that Miss A is considered to have authorised the transaction in dispute and can fairly be held 
responsible for it. As such, I cannot fairly and reasonably require Barclays to refund her. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman