The complaint
Mr L has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr L took out the PPI during the same meeting in branch in which he applied for the credit 
card in August 1996. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What I've decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr L says he was led to believe that he was obliged to take the PPI as part of the credit card 
application. He says no one told him he didnt have to have it, so that made him feel as if he 
had no choice.
Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mr L signed. There is a separate section for PPI 
with two statements  one basically saying, yes, I want PPI and the other saying, no, I dont 
want it. These statements are equally prominent. Theres a tick in the yes box. Mr L could 
have ticked no if he hadnt wanted the policy.
The sale was a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ls recollection of events has 
faded. Looking at the available evidence, I think that Mr L would have known from the 
wording and layout of the paperwork that he had a choice about buying PPI. It seems to me 
that he probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer 
remembers doing so.
Barclays advised Mr L to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to him, it needed to 
ensure that the policy met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ls circumstances at the 
time, the PPI was suitable for him.
Mr L says that he tried to make two claims for sickness during the life of the policy but that 
the insurer turned him down as being ineligible. Barclays couldnt find any evidence of 
declined claims. We asked Mr L for more information about this but he said hed just spoken 
to the insurer over the phone and so doesnt have any paperwork about the claims being 
DRN-1640623declined. Looking at Mr Ls circumstances at the point of sale, I cant see anything that would 
have made him ineligible for the policy.
Mr L says his employer would have given him six months full pay, followed by six months 
half pay, if he was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick 
pay and potentially for longer than Mr L would have received full pay for.
Mr L says his wife could have helped. But other people cant always be relied upon as their 
circumstances can change. 
Mr L confirmed to us that he was in good health at the point of sale. He says he suffered a 
serious health incident but thinks this was in September 1996, so a month after taking out 
the policy.
Overall, I consider that Mr L had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it. So it 
was reasonable of Barclays to advise Mr L to buy it.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr L wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused him to change his mind.
This means that Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr L about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr L, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
With regard to the periods when Mr L wasnt working due to ill health, Mr L may wish to 
consider making a retrospective claim to the insurer now (as mentioned above, there is no 
record of him having tried to claim previously) or complain about his claims being declined, 
although that may prove difficult in terms of providing the necessary evidence, given the time 
that has elapsed.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr L  any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.Carole Clark
Ombudsman