DRN-3326098
The complaint
Ms H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by increasing her 
overdraft limit and by continuing to apply charges to her account when she was in financial 
difficulty.
What happened
Ms H complained to Lloyds about her overdraft limit reaching £3,000 and the excessive 
charges it charged for this. 
Lloyds says Ms H passed all the checks when her overdraft limit was increased and says 
that its records show the account was managed successfully
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Hs concerns and thought that Lloyds shouldve 
realised that Ms H was in financial difficulty and refunded the overdraft charges applied to 
the account from December 2017 because the account in question hadnt maintained a 
credit balance for a significant period of time.  
Lloyds disagreed  it says it believes Ms Hs account activity suggests poor account 
management rather than financial difficulties. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision. I issued my provisional 
decision on 20 January 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing 
not to uphold Ms Hs complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions 
before I reached a final decision. Ms H has come back with further information but ultimately 
I dont think it changes the outcome of her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Ive seen that Ms H is complaining about the proportionality of the charges applied to her 
account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered 
whether the various amounts Lloyds charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms H if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Ms Hs account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Ms H was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Ms H fairly and 
reasonably. And overall I dont think that Lloyds did treat Ms H unfairly or unreasonably. I 
say this because having looked at Ms Hs statements although I can see that from late 2016 
when her overdraft was at its highest limit of £3,000 there were times where direct debit 
payments were returned, but most the time Ms Hs overdraft was being managed. 
Ms H may argue that her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was 
struggling. And I can see that at the end of 2016 there was a period of months where she 
didnt see or maintain a credit balance. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value 
judgements over her expenditure, nonetheless there are significant and at times large 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions. 
Indeed  from October 2017 there appears to be a regular standing order of £250 a month to 
a savings account. While this wasnt enough to pay off her overdraft in full, it was certainly 
enough to bring it down and pay it off within a reasonable time should she have chosen to do 
so. And I can also see that Ms H did manage to reduce her overdraft to £350 at the start of 
2019 and by the end of the year Ms H had paid it off completely.
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Ms H didnt experience financial difficulties. But 
there isnt anything in on the statements in themselves which ought to have alerted Lloyds to 
any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to the account each month 
didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a credit balance at any 
stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Ms Hs account was being used. 
Ms H also complains that Lloyds should have never allowed her to reach an overdraft limit of 
£3,000.
Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Ms H 
would be able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Ms H was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So overall this means the checks 
Lloyds carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Ms H would 
be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
Lloyds says between December 2014 and December 2016 when Ms Hs limit was at its 
highest her overdraft went from £1,500 to £3,000. All applications for the limit increases were 
made on line and were fully credit scored taking into account information Ms H provided 
about her income and how Ms H had managed her other accounts held with it, as well as 
information held by other lenders provided through credit reference checks. And based on 
this information Lloyds was satisfied her score was high enough to provide her with the 
overdraft facility she requested.
I accept that Ms Hs financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
carried out showed or in any information she disclosed to Lloyds at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told Lloyds this. But Lloyds was reasonably entitled 
to rely on the credit check it carried out. Given there wasnt any adverse information shown 
on the credit check, or significant outstanding debts elsewhere and Ms H had a regular 
income coming into her account, I think Lloydss checks went far enough.So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds treated Ms H unfairly 
or unreasonably 
As neither party has provided any further new evidence or arguments for consideration, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive previously explained I do not uphold Ms Hs complaint against Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman