DRN-3132209
The complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a 
store card.
 
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below. 
I can see that PPI was sold at the same time as Mrs S took the store card out in a 
department store. I cant know what was said during that meeting. But to help me decide 
whats most likely to have happened, Ive looked at what Mrs S told us about the sale. And 
Ive also considered a copy of the application form she completed. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mrs S would have known the PPI policy was 
optional and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. I can see that she signed the 
application form to indicate she wanted cover. Immediately above her signature, the form 
states only sign this box if you require [PPI]. So I think it would have been clear to Mrs S 
that if she didnt want cover, she could have just left that part of the application form blank. 
I havent treated this as an advised sale. Thats because I havent seen anything to suggest 
AXA recommended the cover after taking account of Mrs Ss personal circumstances. Even 
so, AXA still had to give Mrs S enough information about the cover so she could decide for 
herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. 
I accept its possible AXA didnt tell Mrs S everything it should have done. But that doesnt 
mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. Thats because I have to consider what Mrs 
S would have done if the sale had proceeded as it should. 
Looking at the terms and conditions of the cover, I cant say it was fundamentally wrong for 
Mrs S. She wasnt affected by any of the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. I 
think it was probably similar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. I havent seen anything to suggest the cover was unaffordable. 
On that basis, I can see how the cover could have been helpful if Mrs S became unwell or if 
she lost her job. 
Whilst there were some additional evidential requirements for claims for back or mental 
health problems, I dont think Mrs S would have thought she could make a claim without 
providing some medical evidence. So I dont think these limitations would have caused Mrs 
S to refuse the policy if shed been given more information about them. 
Putting all of this together, I dont think Mrs S would have acted differently even if AXA had 
given her more or better information about the policy. 
Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman