DRN-3698601
The complaint
Mr P complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) reported his credit card 
account as closed on his credit file and then failed to respond to a dispute he raised through 
the credit reference agency.    
What happened
Mr P holds a credit card account with Creation.
Towards the end of September 2021, Mr P noticed a payment from his credit card account 
which he didnt recognise. He raised a dispute with Creation who investigated matters and 
refunded the amount to his credit card account. They also sent him a replacement card with 
a new number. 
Shortly after this was resolved, Mr P obtained his credit report from a credit reference 
agency. Having reviewed it, he noticed that his credit card account was now being reported 
as closed. He didnt think this was right as he was still using the account, albeit with the new 
card Creation had sent to him.
Concerned that his credit card account wasnt being accurately reported on his credit file, he 
contacted Creation to complain. At the same time, he also contacted the credit reference 
agency whod produced his credit report to raise a dispute.
Creation acknowledged Mr Ps complaint on 13 October 2021. They said theyd investigate 
his concerns and aim to resolve matters within eight weeks. The credit reference agency 
also acknowledged Mr Ps request. They said they would contact Creation with details of the 
dispute.
The credit reference agency contacted Mr P again on 8 November 2021. They said Creation 
hadnt responded to the dispute theyd raised on his behalf. And as they were unable to 
amend his credit file without Creations authorisation, they werent able to assist him further. 
They recommended Mr P contact Creation direct. So, Mr P forwarded the credit reference 
agencys response to Creation who acknowledged its receipt.
Creation then wrote to Mr P on 3 December 2021. They said they were unable to provide a 
response due to internal delays. But they said he could refer his complaint to this service. 
So, Mr P contacted this service asking us to look into his complaint for him.
Creation wrote to Mr P again on 12 May 2022. They didnt think theyd done anything wrong 
and said theyd followed the correct process when hed reported the fraudulent transaction 
on his account. They confirmed there were no blocks on his account and their systems 
showed it was still open. They asked Mr P to provide a copy of his credit report showing the 
account as closed.
Mr P didnt accept Creations response to his complaint. He wanted them to correct what 
was being reported to the credit reference agencies. He also thought they should 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused by their mistake.
Having considered Mr Ps complaint, our investigator didnt think Creation had treated Mr P 
fairly. He thought Creation should pay compensation to Mr P of £100 to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience caused. He also suggested Mr P contact the credit reference agency 
again as Creation had shown theyd issued the appropriate updates on his account to them.
Mr P accepted our investigators recommendations. But Creation failed to respond. So, as 
an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me to consider. In 
doing so, I reached a slightly different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I 
issued a provisional decision on 8 September 2022  giving both Mr P and Creation the 
opportunity to respond to my findings below before I reach a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Creation have confirmed the details of the disputed entry on Mr Ps credit card 
account. Ultimately, they refunded the amount and issued Mr P with a new credit 
card with a new number. I believe this was the right thing to do. But I think this is 
where the discrepancy first occurred.
When Creation issued Mr Ps replacement credit card, they wouldve closed down 
the card/account number previously used. This would then be replaced with the new 
card number. Because of this, I think its likely Mr Ps credit card account, under the 
old number, wouldve first been reported as closed. However, thereafter it would be 
reported under the new number issued instead.
When Mr P first complained to Creation and also raised the dispute with the credit 
reference agency, he told them his account was being reported as closed on his 
credit report. While I havent seen evidence of how the account was reported, I think 
its likely this was initially caused by the change in his account details. Unfortunately, 
Creation werent able to respond quickly to Mr Ps complaint. 
In the meantime, Mr P continued to pursue this issue through the credit reference 
agency. Ive looked at the credit reference agencys website. There is a section 
entitled Disputes FAQ. It says, If we do not receive a response from the data 
provider (Creation here) from which your disputed data item relates to within 28 days 
of your dispute being raised, we will either remove the data item from your credit 
report or supress it from viewPlease note the data can be resupplied or 
unsuppressed at any time by the data provider, this means the information will 
become visible again.
Mr P told this service that his Creation account had initially been reported as closed  
Ive explained why that might have been above. Since then, Mr P has provided 
evidence to show that the account no longer appears on his report with this credit 
reference agency at all. However, Creation have also provided evidence that Mr Ps 
account is reporting clearly with a different credit reference agency.
I believe Creations failure to respond to the dispute raised through the credit 
reference agency used by Mr P resulted in the suppression of that information. Had 
they responded within 28 days; I believe matters wouldve been resolved to Mr Ps 
satisfaction. I also think Creation couldve resolved the situation far sooner had they 
responded to Mr Ps initial complaint earlier and explained the account changes 
clearly.
I agree that the whole situation will have undoubtedly caused Mr P some frustration 
and inconvenience. I also appreciate how worrying it must be for him to find that the 
information on his credit report isnt accurate. So, I agree with our investigators 
recommendation that Creation should pay compensation to Mr P of £100.However, Im also persuaded that the suppression of Mr Ps account information on 
his credit report was a direct consequence of Creations failure to respond to the 
dispute raised by the credit reference agency. So, I intend to ask Creation to take 
action to resolve matters by liaising with that credit reference agency so that the data 
can be resupplied and unsuppressed. I dont think it would be fair to ask Mr P to 
make further attempts himself to resolve this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr P and Creation responded accepting the proposed outcome in my provisional 
decision. So, Ive no reason to vary from my findings above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
I require Creation Financial Services Limited to:
liaise with the credit reference agency in response to the original dispute raised to 
ensure Mr Ps account is reported accurately; and
pay compensation to Mr P of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman