DRN-4058404
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains about Funding Circle Ltds actions in connection with a 
commercial lending arrangement E entered into. The complaint is brought with the 
assistance of B, the father of Mr H (owner and sole director of E).
Although E was known by another company name at the time of taking out the loan, for ease 
of reading Ill refer to all of its actions as being undertaken by E.
Background to this decision
I recently issued my provisional decision setting out the events leading up to this complaint 
and my intended conclusions on whether I could deal with the dispute between E and 
Funding Circle. Ive reproduced that provisional decision here and it is incorporated as part 
of my overall findings. I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished 
to make in response, and I will address their responses later in this decision.
What happened
Funding Circle provides a peer-to-peer lending platform and administers loans on behalf of 
both corporate and individual investors, who are the lenders in these arrangements.
In response to marketing material, E contacted Funding Circle early in 2018 seeking to raise 
funds towards a new business venture. E had identified it needed to diversify and expand its 
business activity and sought finance to assist with setting this up.
E originally sought a loan in the region of £100,000. Funding Circle wasnt willing to agree to 
this sum. It indicated it would be prepared to approve a loan of £24,380 (inclusive of set-up 
fees), to be repaid over five years. One of the borrowing conditions was that Mr H stand as 
guarantor, meaning if E didnt keep up the payments, Mr H could be pursued for recovery.
E accepted the loan terms and Funding Circle issued the funds in February 2018. Monthly 
payments of £536.18 were received towards the loan until March 2020. This was as a result 
of Es direct debit being cancelled following B writing to Funding Circle in the January. In his 
letter B raised concerns on Es behalf over the decision to lend, saying that this had caused 
significant financial hardship and emotional distress to E and Mr H.
B said Funding Circle acted irresponsibly in approving the loan, that if didnt conduct 
appropriate checks on Es ability to repay it, and that it failed to have proper regard for 
Mr Hs vulnerabilities due to his learning difficulties and autism. B provided Es bank 
statements and company accounts, which he considered shouldve prompted Funding Circle 
to reach a different outcome in terms of its lending decision. B further cited concerns over 
Funding Circles marketing activity, which he felt had a substantial impact on the vulnerable.
Funding Circle responded to B in May 2020. It didnt agree with what B had said. While it 
apologised for the delay in replying, Funding Circle said that in considering Es application it 
had undertaken affordability checks. These included an assessment of latest business 
accounts, bank account statements, and credit checks on both E and Mr H. Funding Circle 
said none of the documents indicated signs of a business under stress, and that the loan 
payments were thus deemed affordable.
In relation to its marketing activity, Funding Circle said that it sourced information about the 
creditworthiness of prospective clients from third-party credit information agencies. It didnt 
comment on whether the marketing was appropriate for vulnerable persons. But it said any 
application received was considered on its individual merits.
B remained unhappy with the position and on behalf of E and Mr H, referred matters to us.
Our investigator didnt think we could deal with a complaint arising out obligations Funding 
Circle had towards Mr H in his capacity as the loan guarantor. But she did look at the steps 
Funding Circle had taken in considering the loan application. In doing so, she took into 
account guidance set out by the Lending Standards Board (LSB) in respect of lending to 
business customers. While Funding Circle wasnt a subscriber to the LSB, the investigator 
considered that guidance representative of good industry practice.
Based on the evidence Funding Circle provided, our investigator was satisfied it had taken 
appropriate steps to assess Es ability to repay the loan in a sustainable manner without 
incurring financial difficulty. She noted the financial information and credit checks Funding 
Circle had looked at were in line with the factors suggested by the LSB guidance. While 
Funding Circle had taken the decision not to lend E the £100,000 originally sought, these 
hadnt offered anything to indicate it would be inappropriate to lend the lower amount to E, or 
that it would be unable to sustain the repayments. Rather, they had indicated E was 
operating in profit with an upward trend over the last two years.
The investigator empathised with what B told us about the impact Mr Hs learning difficulties 
and autism had on his day-to-day life. But she wasnt persuaded this was something that 
Funding Circle was aware of when it received Es loan application, or that it was on notice to 
make reasonable enquiries based on anything it knew or was told about Mr Hs personal 
situation. So she didnt think it was wrong for Funding Circle to have approved the loan.
B hasnt accepted the investigators conclusions and has asked for this review. In doing so, 
hes reiterated his concerns about lending to vulnerable persons  both generally and 
specific to his sons situation. B has also referred to information within the company 
accounts, bank statements, and in Mr Hs personal credit record, that he thinks should have 
caused Funding Circle to make further enquiry.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Mr Hs vulnerability
B has given a detailed account of his sons situation, including some particularly sensitive 
and concerning information that explains how B became aware of the loan in the first place. I 
cant begin to imagine how distressing that situation must have been. And I dont doubt that 
Mr Hs condition influenced his decision-making in terms of his business plans and his ability 
to meet the loan payments. But in terms of whether Funding Circle failed to have due regard 
for this when it approved the loan to E, I have to consider what it knew  or should 
reasonably have known  at the material time.
There are two issues to contend with in this respect. First, the marketing information B has 
pointed to as being an influential factor in E applying for the loan. I accept in principle that 
this is the purpose of marketing material; like most advertising it is intended to encourage an 
interest in the product or service being marketed. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook contains provisions relating to financial promotion communications in the course of the activity Funding Circle was engaged in. These can be found in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) section 3, available on the FCA website.
I dont find anything in the promotional material sent to E that appears to breach the relevant 
CONC provisions. The LSB guidance isnt explicit about promotional material. It contains 
wording that suggests sales processes should take account of the impact vulnerability may 
have on an individuals ability to make an informed decision. It goes on to say that firms 
should provide relevant support during the application process. But the guidance says that 
its designed to support firms in identifying and addressing situations where an individual 
within a business either is, or the firm has reason to suspect that they may be, vulnerable. 
So I dont think it would be right for me to apply the LSB guidance to a general approach to 
promotional activity or material.
The position might be different where Funding Circle knew, or had reason to think, that Mr H 
was vulnerable. The same applies to the consideration of Es loan application. However, Ive 
no basis on which I can properly find that Funding Circle was aware of Mr Hs learning 
difficulties or his autism, either when it sent the promotional material or when Mr H applied to 
borrow money. Nor does there appear to be anything in the information he submitted in 
support of that application that should have prompted Funding Circle to enquire further or to 
treat him as a vulnerable person.
In light of this, Im not currently minded to conclude Funding Circle treated E unfairly by 
failing to have due regard for Mr Hs vulnerability when it issued marketing material to E or 
when E applied for the loan. That doesnt exclude the possibility that a different situation 
might apply after B told Funding Circle of Mr Hs vulnerabilities. Ill address that aspect later. 
Funding Circles affordability assessment
Our investigator set out in some detail the information Funding Circle took into account when 
reaching the decision to decline Es original borrowing request, and to approve the lower 
sum. I dont consider it necessary for me to repeat that information here; theres no real 
dispute over what Funding Circle took into account, or what the LSB guidance suggests are 
relevant factors affecting a commercial lending decision. For the avoidance of any doubt, Im 
satisfied that in obtaining information relating to Es financial position and about how E and 
Mr H had handled previous and existing credit commitments, Funding Circle got appropriate 
information on which to base its lending decision.
The key question is whether there was anything in that information that suggested Funding 
Circle ought to have done more investigation into Es ability to sustain the loan payments. B 
clearly feels that this is the case. Hes provided examples of areas where he feels the 
financial documents indicate further enquiry would have been appropriate. Funding Circle, 
on the other hand, says that there were no obvious signs of financial stress that would have 
prompted it to ask for more evidence.
I accept there were some indications that E might have found it difficult to meet the loan 
payments. But I must also bear in mind that one of the purposes of the commercial 
borrowing was to expand Es business into a new market. Its not unusual for an enterprise 
to borrow money in order to invest and grow its business. A key aspect of business lending 
involves basing lending decisions not solely on the past position, but on the growth 
proposition. It would be unreasonable if I were to say that firms should only approve lending 
where the underlying commercial venture is guaranteed to succeed. There is inevitably an 
element of risk involved.
Of course, a responsible lender (or lending platform) should be considering that risk. They 
can do this by assessing a business plan, or making other enquiries about the purpose of 
the borrowing and how the investment might translate to increased turnover or sales. Funding Circle established that Mr H intended to expand his business in a service field 
connected to his existing core business. The proposition doesnt appear to have been one 
that was entirely without merit. And in being asked to consider a borrowing proposal, a 
lender or lending platform isnt required to advise on the wisdom of the applicants proposed 
course of action. It doesnt automatically adopt the role of advisor simply by virtue of being 
asked to lend money or other support for a business venture.
Taking all of this into account, while I understand Bs strength of feeling Im inclined to 
conclude that Funding Circle undertook reasonable and proportionate checks before it 
agreed to lend to E. Its of course regrettable that things didnt work out as Mr H intended. 
But I dont think thats attributable to Funding Circles actions in approving the loan.
Other matters
I mentioned above that I was conscious that some of the correspondence between Funding 
Circle and E (via B) was undertaken after Funding Circle was made aware of Mr Hs 
vulnerabilities. Of particular note in this respect is Bs request to Funding Circle to suspend 
loan payments while the complaint was under consideration, and in light of Mr Hs personal 
situation and the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic that was then ongoing. Funding Circle 
cancelled the direct debit, which meant no payments were collected from March 2020. 
However, the loan remained due and arrears developed.
Funding Circle contacted B in November 2020 about options for addressing the loan 
position. By that stage, it was aware of Mr Hs condition, and so it might be expected that the 
firms vulnerable persons procedures would be reflected in its dealings with him. While 
Funding Circle has shown a degree of forbearance in terms of demands for payment, its not 
clear the extent to which it has contemplated the possibility that it will be unable to recover 
any further payments from E or Mr H.
B has said that E has been inactive for some time, that Mr H has limited access to paid 
employment and few, if any, material assets. The complaint Im dealing with is about the 
decision to approve lending, rather than the response to financial hardship. Its important to 
make clear that I make no finding in this decision in relation to how Funding Circle has dealt 
with E (and by extension, Mr H) in terms of its ongoing financial hardship.
However, I would remind Funding Circle of its overarching obligation to treat customers 
fairly. This incorporates, in particular, the provisions of CONC 7, the long-standing guidance 
from the Office of Fair Trading on dealing with customers in financial difficulty, and giving 
due consideration to whether there is any realistic prospect of fairly recovering any of the 
loan balance. Should E become dissatisfied with Funding Circles response to these matters, 
nothing Ive said here is intended to prevent E from bringing a separate complaint.
My provisional decision
I understand and empathise with B and what he and his family have done to support Mr H. 
Hes done everything he possibly could to assist his son, both emotionally and financially. I 
genuinely hope the parties are able to reach a mutually acceptable resolution to the issue of 
the remaining loan balance. But I hope the explanation Ive set out here goes some way to 
helping B to understand why Im not currently minded to find that Funding Circle acted 
inappropriately in approving the loan to E.
Responses to my provisional decisionFunding Circle hasnt made any further comments in response to my provisional decision 
and I therefore assume it doesnt dispute any of my findings. B responded on Es behalf with 
additional submissions which were, in summary:
1. The timing of the loan application, which was made during a period leading up to 
Funding Circles stock market flotation. B considers that this ought to have prompted 
enquiry into Funding Circles approach to risk, staff incentives and capacity to undertake 
proper affordability assessment during this time
2. Funding Circles categorisation of risk to its investors as represented by the loan to E. 
The interest rate applicable to Es borrowing reflected that it presented a higher risk to 
investors, which prompts the question of whether Funding Circle over-rode proper 
affordability considerations  particularly as Funding Circle itself had no money at risk
3. Es original business plan proposed a start-up in a different part of the country, where E 
had no prior presence. Funding Circle didnt undertake a thorough review of the 
business plan, or challenged any of the information in it. Had it done so, Mr Hs 
vulnerabilities would have become apparent, as would the lack of viability of the 
business proposition
4. The review of trading accounts was inadequate and anything more than a cursory check 
would have identified underlying affordability concerns. It was inappropriate to look at 
the net profit figures to satisfy the affordability requirements
5. Contrary to what Funding Circle had asserted, the bank statements showed significant 
fluctuations in income, with a downward trend. This suggested Funding Circle hadnt 
properly reviewed the account statements
6. Industry briefing papers and published guidelines from several years before the lending 
was entered into put the onus on the lender (or lending platform) to demonstrate 
affordability and ask the right questions. One of the relevant factors (secondary to the 
information obtained from the borrower) in this is the information obtained in relation to 
the borrowers credit history. B said he hadnt seen what Funding Circle had obtained in 
this respect, and questioned the extent to which it was appropriate to include the agency 
reports as evidence of suitable creditworthiness checks
7. B said it couldnt accept that Funding Circles approach of looking at whether there were 
any county court judgments (CCJs) recorded in relation to E met an appropriate 
standard of assessing whether a potential borrower would be able to repay future loans
8. B referred to FCA papers dealing with guarantor loans and sought assurances over the 
extent to which Funding Circle could reasonably be said to have satisfied itself that Mr H 
could financially guarantee Es borrowing. He expressed concerns that Funding Circle 
was relying on the guarantor agreement to override the likelihood that the loan was not 
affordable for E.
9. B asked me to deal with the matters of Funding Circles initial failure to respond to Es 
complaint contrary to the firms (and the FCAs) complaint-handling procedures, and 
with the way in which Funding Circle had dealt with the difficulties E and Mr H had 
experienced in being able to make payments. In doing so, B attributed certain 
comments to me that I will address more fully later in this decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case Ive taken into 
account (as set out in DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook):(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Bs submissions in response to my provisional decision have incorporated a certain amount 
of material relating to his own professional background, other lenders, different types of loan, 
the risk borne by investors in this type of lending, and other regulatory matters he clearly 
considers should have a bearing on my review and findings. I recognise why B has provided 
this material and I have taken note of it. But in doing so, I consider that my principal focus 
has to be on the circumstances of Es own dealings with Funding Circle  so that I might 
reach my overall conclusions on that individual complaint fairly and reasonably.
I have summarised Bs submissions by distilling their main themes. I intend no discourtesy 
by condensing things as I have; rather, it is more a reflection of our practical and purposive 
approach to reviewing complaints. This in line with our remit to do so with the minimum of 
formality acting, as we do, as an informal alternative to the civil courts. But for the avoidance 
of any doubt, Ive read, considered, and taken account of all the representations Ive 
received, including those I havent expressly referenced in this decision.
Bs submissions in support of his son and E set out in some detail the expectations he has 
over the way in which we conduct our investigations. The inquisitorial remit of our service 
gives me the power to determine the appropriate investigation of complaint points, and to 
ask questions and obtain evidence from the parties in order to reach what is, in my view, a 
fair and reasonable resolution to a dispute. That doesnt require that I conduct an in-depth 
enquiry into every aspect or query to which a complainant (or their representative) would like 
an answer. Nor am I under an obligation to explain in detail why I do not do so.
With this in mind, while I appreciate what B has said in points 1 and 2, I havent found it 
necessary to make the enquiries he feels should have been made. I dont consider doing so 
would be consistent with the remit Ive already mentioned. Ive explained in my provisional 
decision why Im satisfied that Funding Circle obtained appropriate information and 
undertook a reasonable and proportionate assessment of the borrowing proposition. Noting 
what B has said, I remain of that opinion.
Points 3, 4 and 5 relate to the original business plan and the revised version E subsequently 
put forward, and to the trading figures and financial statements used to assess affordability. I 
acknowledge that B has his views on the viability of the arrangements and the actions he 
considers should be taken in terms of responsible lending. As he has himself said, he has 
made these points in previous submissions to us. For the reasons previously set out by the 
investigator in her preliminary assessment, and by me in my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded that what B has said points to inadequate assessment of Es loan application.
In respect of points 6 and 7, I acknowledge Bs views as to how he thinks a business should 
treat an applicants previous credit history. He is entitled to hold those views, and its not for 
me to dissuade him from doing so. Its worth noting that the briefing paper B has referenced 
is primarily directed towards consumer borrowing rather than that undertaken by a business.
Nevertheless, its content does to a large degree reflect the relevant provisions of section 5 of 
CONC in respect of creditworthiness and affordability assessment, as this includes certain 
lending for business purposes as well as to consumers. Guidance at CONC 5.2.4(3)G indicates that in the regulators view it is acceptable practice to include credit scoring and 
credit reference agency reporting as part of the assessment. So while I take Bs point, I find 
that Funding Circle was entitled to obtain and use the credit information it obtained about E 
in deciding whether to lend.
I note that B has said he would like more detail around the use of credit scoring and 
reporting systems Funding Circle used in its assessment. For reasons of both brevity and 
commercial sensitivity, Im not including this information in my decision. If possible, with 
regard to those commercial sensitivities, I will see if we are able to provide copies of the 
relevant information to B under separate cover.
In terms of guarantor liability (point 8), I find there is merit to the question B has posed 
around how Funding Circle was satisfied about Mr Hs ability to meet the guarantee, and the 
extent to which this is a relevant consideration when assessing the principal borrowers 
application. Although I cant deal with a complaint from Mr H regarding his guarantorship  
my power to do so only came into our rules in late 2019 and was not retroactive  CONC 
5.2.5R has the effect of requiring that the lending assessment takes into account the 
potential for the guarantors commitments to adversely impact their financial situation. So it 
falls within the context of a complaint brought by E about Funding Circles lending decision.
Further, there is a question over whether the lending would have been provided (or at least, 
the amount in question) if Mr H had not been guarantor. I say this because Funding Circles 
internal notes dated 8 February 2018 indicate that the amount it was willing to approve was 
contingent on a personal guarantee from Mr H.
From what I have seen, Funding Circle did undertake an assessment of Mr Hs personal 
financial position. Somewhat self-evidently in the circumstances at play here, much of the 
information overlaps with the borrower information in terms of Mr Hs source of income. It 
stands to reason that if E struggled to meet the loan payments due to insufficient income, 
Mr H would be similarly affected. Funding Circles assessment also considered matters such 
as Mr Hs personal expenditure and credit commitments, as well as assets he owned, 
though it appears no security was taken to support the guarantee.
The purpose of such an assessment isnt to ensure that a call on a guarantee has no impact 
on the guarantor. It almost goes without saying that a guarantors financial position will be 
affected in the event they become liable to pay money under the guarantee. Rather, it is to 
ensure that due consideration is given to the impact this might have.
Further, it can be reasonable to find as a result of that assessment that there might be 
potential for an adverse impact but to proceed with the lending having made the guarantor 
sufficiently aware of that impact. I note the personal guarantee document clearly asserts, in 
capitals and at the start, the liabilities Mr H would face in the event of the loan going unpaid, 
and that he should take legal advice to ensure his understanding before signing.
The provision of a personal guarantee in support of business borrowing is a risk that people 
who run their own business commonly take. I understand the difficulties B has described in 
terms of Mr Hs vulnerabilities. But as I said in my provisional decision, at the time of 
entering into the arrangements there is no indication that Funding Circle knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known, this.
Taking all of this into account, I dont consider the matters B has raised in point 8 provide 
sufficient reason to find that Funding Circle should not have provided the loan to E.
Finally, I turn to point 9 and to what B has referred as the second complaint. I must take 
issue here with what B has said about my being mindful that Funding Circle is potentially in breach of the provisions of CONC 7 in respect of their failure to act on the fact there was 
unlikely to be any reasonable prospect of fairly recovering the loan debt.
To be clear, and as can be seen from the text of my provisional decision reproduced above, I 
have made no finding that there has been a breach of those provisions  potential or 
otherwise  or a failure to act on the part of Funding Circle. I merely reminded Funding Circle 
that it has obligations to treat its customers fairly, which means having regard for such 
matters. And I explained to E that any dissatisfaction with such handling can form the basis 
of a subsequent complaint.
I cant deal with that as part of this complaint, as it wasnt the issue complained about to 
Funding Circle, notwithstanding that B brought it up in the course of us dealing with the 
lending complaint. Nor, for the reasons Ive already mentioned, can I deal with such matters 
in respect of action taken towards Mr H in his capacity as guarantor.
In addition, I cant deal with a complaint about whether a firm has complied with complaint-
handling procedures set out either by the regulator or in its own policies. Based on relevant 
case law1, these arent within my remit as they dont themselves relate to the provision of (or 
failure to provide) a financial service, claims management service or a redress 
determination.
I realise B might find all of this frustrating, but Im unable to act outside the powers my role 
confers. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here and in my provisional findings which are incorporated into 
this decision, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask a representative of 
E to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman
1 The relevant case law is R (Mazarona Properties Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2017] 
EWHC 1135 (Admin)