DRN-2741217
The complaint
Miss W complains Equifax Limited charged her a monthly subscription fee which she wasnt 
aware of.
What happened
Miss W signed up to Equifaxs 30 day free trial in September 2020. Miss W says she forgot 
to cancel her membership following this period, so she was charged £7.95  which was one 
monthly fee. Miss W would like the fee refunded as she says she didnt use the service and 
she wasnt aware this fee would be charged. 
Equifax say Miss Ws access was free for the first 30 days but that monthly charges would 
apply after this, unless Miss W cancelled the service. Equifax say their terms make this 
clear, therefore, they didnt refund the £7.95 Miss W was charged. Equifax confirmed they 
cancelled Miss Ws subscription on 1 November 2020 so she wouldnt be charged again.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ws concerns. In summary, she said Equifax had made it 
clear that there was going to be a fee after the first 30 days. Therefore, she didnt think 
Equifax had done anything wrong. Miss W disagreed. She remained of the opinion that she 
didnt use the service and that she wasnt aware of the fee. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Equifax have provided us with screenshots of the home page of their website, a sample 
registration form that Miss W wouldve completed and also their terms and conditions. I can 
see their home page clearly sets out that the first 30 days are free, then theres a charge of 
£7.95 a month thereafter.
The sample registration form explains Your free trial will end on a (specific date). Your 
payment card will be charged £7.95 on (specific date) and then on or around the (specific 
date) of each month thereafter. Well email you if there are any changes to your payments. 
Lastly, the terms and conditions say; Please tick the box to confirm that you agree to the 
Terms and Conditions including a £7.95 per month charge after a 30 day free trial period if 
you do not end your membership. 
Having considered all of this evidence, I think Equifax made it clear that they will charge 
Miss W a monthly fee if she didnt end her membership after the 30 day trial period was 
over. As Miss W didnt end her membership before the 30 days lapsed, I think Equifax were 
entitled to charge her the monthly fee.
I note Miss W has said she doesnt think its fair for Equifax to charge the fee as she didnt 
use their service. Equifax have provided information to show Miss W accessed her online 
account several times during the free period and also after this period was over. So, I think, 
on balance, its more likely Miss W did use the service.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Miss W. But having thought about 
everything carefully, I dont think Equifax have done anything wrong and I consider their 
actions, in the circumstances, to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman