DRN-2449934
The complaint
Mrs T is complaining about HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct for not allowing her 
son to access her savings account.
Mrs T is represented by her son in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs T herself.
What happened
Mrs T signed a third party mandate for her son to access her current account starting in 
February 2018.
In July 2019 Mrs T opened a Bonus Savings Account (BSA), however, the details of the 
mandate were not updated to allow her son to access the BSA. While the mandate didnt 
allow for this First Direct allowed Mrs Ts son to access her BSA several times over the 
phone between December 2019 and July 2020.
First Direct realised in July 2020 that the mandate only covered the current account and not 
the BSA and that Mrs Ts son couldnt access the BSA. They said they sent out a new third 
party mandate to be completed and returned and another one when they did not receive the 
first one.
First Direct had paid £100 compensation into Mrs Ts current account for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and paid £20 towards the cost of the calls that had to be made here.  
Mrs T has brought the complaint to our service though as she feels the compensation should 
be £500.
An investigator looked into the complaint and said that First Direct has admitted it made 
errors by allowing access to the BSA without amending the mandate, but the investigator 
summarised he felt the £100 compensation was a fair and reasonable outcome due to the 
frustration caused.
First Direct accepted the view of the investigator but Mrs T has replied that the £100 has not 
settled the complaint and wanted it to be forwarded to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware this service is considering a separate complaint from Mrs T, but my decision here 
will only focus on First Direct in relation to access to the BSA.
Generally speaking, I have arrived at the same conclusions as the investigator  and for very
much the same reasons.
The starting point here is that under the mandate that was in place at the time the BSA was 
opened  Mrs Ts son didnt have the authority to access the BSA. So, when First Direct 
allowed him to access this, it was technically a mistake. But its one which didnt have a 
negative or adverse impact on Mrs T. Although I can see why Mrs T wouldve then thought 
that her son was able to access this account and would be able to moving forward.
But when First Direct realised that the mandate didnt allow for her son to access the 
account, they made sure that he couldnt access this. That was a fair thing to do  but its a 
case of First Direct doing the right thing much later than they should have. I can understand 
how Mrs T thinks that access to the BSA had been removed. But really, under the mandate 
here Mrs Ts sons access to the BSA should not have been allowed in the first place.
So the right thing to do here would have been for First Direct to apologise, recognise the 
impact this had and explain what the actual situation was and what was needed for Mrs T to 
get her son access to the BSA. Essentially First Direct needed to give Mrs T the information 
she should have been when the BSA was first tried to be accessed by her son. 
I think thats what First Direct have tried to do here, as when they noticed the mistake they 
sent out a third party mandate to be completed to give Mrs Ts son access to the BSA and 
when they didnt receive a completed mandate they sent out another one. They had 
acknowledged their mistake and credited £100 to her account along with paying £20 for calls 
that had to be made.
I have considered that Mrs T wants to receive £500 compensation here, but I think that the 
compensation already paid to Mrs T is fair and reasonable for the frustration she has 
experienced. And Im satisfied that First Direct has acted fairly in trying to resolve the matter 
once they realised mistakes occurred.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman