DRN-4073841
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited offered an unfair settlement 
following a total loss claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Z had car insurance that was underwritten by Admiral. In December 2022 he made a 
claim after he was involved in an accident. The car was written off and Admiral offered a 
settlement of £11,350 before deductions for the excess and salvage. It said this was based 
on the market value of the vehicle.
Mr Z wasnt happy with this. He said hed only bought the vehicle around five months before 
the accident and had paid £13,000. And since then hed replaced the tyres and carried out 
other work that would have increased the value. He made a complaint, but Admiral didnt 
uphold it, so he brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said 
Admiral had based its valuation on trade guides which this service considers to be the most 
reliable way of calculating a market value. And as the amount offered was within the range 
of these guides, he thought the offer was fair.
Mr Z didnt agree, he said that as one of the guides valued the vehicle at over £12,000 this 
showed that the offer was too low and should have been increased. He asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Zs policy says that in the event of a total loss, it will pay the market value of the vehicle. 
It defines market value as follows:
The cost of replacing your vehicle: with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term 
'market' refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides.
In order to calculate the market value, Admiral has considered valuations provided by trade 
guides. As this is what the policy terms say it will base the valuation on then this is fair and 
reasonable.
Further, this service considers trade guides to generally be the most reliable for these 
calculations as they are based on the amount vehicles have been sold for and take into 
account the specific car make and model, mileage and age. As well as the condition of the 
car. 
Here, Ageas provided valuations from three trade guides. These produced values of 
£10,910, £11,350 and £11,132. And our investigator looked at further guides that produced 
values of £12,245 and £11,483. This service would expect an insurer to provide a settlement 
within the range of the trade guide valuations. And as Admiral offered £11,350, this is 
well within the range of the five different valuations weve seen. Im therefore satisfied its 
offered a fair settlement. 
I understand Mr S doesnt feel the valuation is fair as he bought the car for more than this 
shortly before the accident and had done work on it to improve it. However his policy only 
requires Admiral to pay the market value of the car at the time of the accident. And Admiral 
has provided enough to show that what its offered is a fair market value. And while I can 
appreciate it must be frustrating to have spent money on the vehicle before the accident, 
alterations and improvements dont necessary increase the market value. So this doesnt 
persuade me that Admirals valuation is unfair. 
Finally I note that Mr Z has said that the highest valuation of £12,245 shows that the offer 
from Admiral isnt enough. There is always some variance in the value produced by different 
guides, which is why we expect insurers to check three before offering a settlement. 
However we consider an offer to be fair if it is within the range of the guide values. And 
wouldnt necessarily expect Admiral to just pay the highest, in the same way we wouldnt 
expect it to just pay the lowest either. As the settlement offered is within the range of the 
values from the guides, Im satisfied it has acted in line with the policy terms and conditions 
and offered a fair and reasonable settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman