DRN-4324277
The complaint
Miss W complains that a car acquired with finance from Startline Motor Finance Limited 
(SMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2022 Miss W was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
SMF. At the point of supply the car was around 7 years old and had covered mileage of 
around 65,867.
Within around 5 weeks of getting the car Miss W experienced issues with the AdBlue 
injectors and AdBlue pump. She returned the car to the supplying dealer who carried out 
repairs.
Since the repairs were carried out Miss W found that the car didnt start properly and when 
driving the vehicle would jerk and suddenly stop. Miss W complained to SMF and asked to 
reject the car. She advised that the car was booked in for a diagnostic and provided a video 
evidencing the issues.
Miss W also supplied a vehicle health check from R dated 31 August 2022. This confirmed 
six intermittent fault codes as well as a permanent electric window output fault.
SMF arranged an independent inspection of the car. The inspection took place in September 
2022. The inspecting engineer was unable to replicate any of the issues that Miss W had 
experienced and found no faults with the car. The engineer commented that as a precaution, 
it was recommend that the diesel particulate filter (DPF) was cleaned and regenerated, as 
intermittent engine performance issues could occur when the DPF needed cleaning. 
Based on the findings of the report, SMF didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Miss W remained unhappy and complained to this service. She said the car broke down in 
December 2022 and a subsequent diagnostic report showed that there was an issue with the 
fuel pump. Miss W says shes continued to experience issues with the car including engine 
fault warnings. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to say 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Miss W didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Miss W was around 7 years old and had covered around 65,800 miles. 
So its reasonable to expect that it would already have a degree of wear and tear and that it 
require repairs and maintenance sooner than, say, a brand new car. 
Ive reviewed all the available information about the issues with the car. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car. I say this because Miss W has provided a 
diagnostic dated August 2023 which suggests that the control module on the fuel tank pump 
unit is faulty.
Just because theres a fault doesnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. So Ive gone on to consider whether the fault was present or developing when 
the car was supplied.
I can see that the AdBlue injector and AdBlue pump was repaired within a few weeks of Miss 
W getting the car. Theres no evidence to link the current fault with these issues, and no 
evidence that Miss W continued to experience issue with the AdBlue injector, so Im 
persuaded that these repairs were successful and that the current fault with the car isnt 
related to those repairs. 
An independent inspection can help to determine whether a fault was present or developing 
at the point of supply. Ive reviewed the inspection report dated September 2022. The 
engineer who carried out the inspection wasnt able to replicate the jerking and start/stop 
issues that Miss W told SMF she was experiencing and was unable to find a fault with the 
car. 
The diagnostic dated August 2023 has shown that there was a fault in August 2023, but 
theres no evidence to suggest that this fault was present at the point of supply. This is 
important for the reasons I explain below.
The relevant legislation says that where a fault occurs in the first 6 months then its assumed 
that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to the 
business to put things right. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the 
consumer to show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. So in this 
case, because the fault with the fuel tank pump was diagnosed outside of the first 6 months, 
its up to Miss W to provide evidece to show that the fuel tank pump was faulty at the point of 
supply. And although the diagnostic says that theres likely to be a fault with the fuel tank 
pump unit, this isnt a definite diagnosis and theres nothing in the diagnostic which says that 
this fault would have been present or developing at the point of supply.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that the diagnostic report dated August 
2023 shows that there was a fault with the car at the point of supply. So it isnt enough to 
persuade me that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. If there had been a 
fault with the fuel tank pump which was present or developing at the point of supply, I think 
this fault wouldve been identified at one of the earlier diagnostics arranged by Miss W, or at 
the independent inspection report. Theres no evidence on any of those reports of an issue 
with the fuel pump. So it seems more likely that the fault with the fuel pump has developed 
due to general wear and tear commensurate with the age and mileage of the car.
Taking all the available evidence into account and for the reasons Ive explained above, 
there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.  I wont be asking SMF to do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman