DRN-2556186
The complaint
Mr L complains that a car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality. He would like to be reimbursed the cost of 
the repair. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr L entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement for a used car. 
The car was two years old and had a mileage of 41,500.
In September 2019 Mr L took the car for its MOT and was advised that the nearside front 
tyres tread was worn and would need replacing. Mr L then took the car to a tyre fitting 
garage. Mr L says he was told by the technician that inspected the car that the front 
nearside wheel was severely buckled probably due to either hitting a pot hole or from an 
impact. He was advised to have a new wheel fitted as a safety measure and to stop 
excessive wear and premature wear of the suspension system.
Mr L had the wheel replaced at a cost of just over £1,100. He says that the technician 
who inspected the car also informed him that the wheel had been in this condition since 
the tyre he was now replacing had first been fitted meaning it had been damaged before 
he had acquired the car. Mr L complained to Santander.
Santander requested a report be provided to show that the damage to the wheel had 
been present at the point of sale/ Mr L obtained a report from the tyre fitting garage that 
had examined the car. The report didnt state when the damage had occurred but noted 
that the wheel had over 300 grams of balance weight on the existing wheel when 
inspected on the balancer. It also said that This should have been picked up on the 
recent PD (pre-delivery inspection) that the vehicle had.
Santander didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint, it said there wasnt enough evidence to say 
that the damage to the wheel had been present at the point of sale. Mr L was unhappy 
at the decision reached by Santander and complained to this service.
Mr L said that the technician had pointed out that the wheel would have been in that 
condition when the now worn tyre had been put on the car due to the weight that had been 
added to balance the car. He said he couldnt have been aware of it until the tyre had been 
changed and as he had only driven the car for 7,000 miles and it was unlikely that there 
would have been a sign there was an issue with the tyre before then.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She said that 
there wasnt enough evidence that the car had been of unsatisfactory quality at the point 
of sale due to the damaged wheel. She also said she wasnt persuaded that the fault had 
been present at the point of sale as it had only become apparent after Mr L had had the 
car for six months and driven a further 7,000. Mr L disagreed with the view of our 
investigator. He said that it wasnt reasonable to expect the damage to the wheel to have 
been noticed until he had the tyre changed. He said he had not changed any of the tyres 
until after the MOT in September 2019 which was when the damage to the wheel had 
been discovered and the technician had explained about the additional weight that had 
been added to balance the car. Mr L also said he had a protected no claims bonus on his 
insurance and so it would have made better financial sense if he had damaged the wheel 
to have made a claim for the repair under his policy rather than just change the tyre and 
add the weight for balance to mask the damage.
As the parties didnt reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
Looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I was not bound by them when I considered whats fair and reasonable.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mr L was a regulated consumer 
credit agreement this service was able to consider complaints relating to it. Santander 
was also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 theres an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality 
of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all 
other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the 
quality of the goods.
Here the car wasnt brand new and so wouldnt be judged by the same standard as 
a new one and I thought a reasonable person would expect the car to show some 
wear and tear due to use. However, the wheel was described by the technician as 
severely buckled and attributed to either striking a pot hole or having been involved 
in some sort of impact. I thought it was fair to think that the wheel damaged couldnt 
reasonably be attributed to fair wear and tear.
I appreciated that I didnt have any definitive evidence as to when the wheel was damaged 
and where evidence was missing or contradictory then I needed to decide what I thought 
was the most likely thing to have happened. Santander said that due to the amount of time 
that had passed since the inception of the credit agreement the onus fell on Mr L to show 
that the fault with the car was either present or developing at the point of sale.
Mr L has provided the MOT showing the advisory about the wear to the tyre and 
also the report from the tyre garage stating what was found. Hed also provided 
proof that he had a protected no claims bonus on his car insurance so any claim 
would not have had a detrimental impact on the cost of his premium. He said that 
the only time hedchanged the tyre on the car was in October 2019 after the MOT.
I thought Mr L had provided a consistent and credible account about how the damage 
was discovered. The tyre was showing signs of wear which I also thought was 
consistent with what would be expected to happen with a mis-shapen wheel. I didnt 
think that it was likely any damage to the wheel would have been evident until the 
tyre had been removed as Mr L wouldnt have been alerted to the car not driving 
correctly given the extra weight that had been added to the tyre to re-balance the 
car.The worn tyre was found to have had 300 grams added to it to balance it when it 
was inspected by the garage. I thought it was reasonable to say that was a large 
amount of weight to have had added. And so, I thought that it was therefore more 
likely than not that this was an attempt to correct the effect of the damaged wheel 
rather than replacing the wheel itself.
Mr L said the only time hed had the tyre changed was in October 2019 and I 
accepted what he had said. I didnt think it was likely hed damaged the wheel 
himself as if he had then I could see no reason why he wouldnt have had the repair 
to the wheel undertaken at the time under his insurance policy. Not having the wheel 
properly repaired meant there was a safety risk to the way the car handled and of 
prematuring wear to the suspension.
I thought it was more likely than not that prior to the car being acquired by Mr L the 
front nearside wheel had been damaged resulting in a new tyre and the extra weight 
being used to balance the car. This damage had only come to light because of the 
way the tyre then wore down over time.
I disagrede that the problem should have come to light sooner than it did if it had 
been present at the point of sale. The car had been re-balanced with the adding of 
the weight on to the tyre and although premature wear would then result, I thought it 
would be reasonable to expect this wear to arise around or after 7,000 of use.
So, looking at the evidence I thought there was sufficient evidence to satisfy me that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. I thought the damage to the 
wheel had occurred before Mr L acquired the car and came to light only after the 
wear to the tyre was picked up at the MOT.
I intended to uphold Mr Ls complaint and ask Santander to reimburse him the cost 
of the new wheel together with interest. If M L has not yet provided Santander with 
this repair invoice he would need to do so before being reimbursed.
Neither Mr L nor Santander has asked me to look again at my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having fully reviewed my provisional decision and noting that neither party has asked me to 
reconsider what Ive said, I find I havent changed my mind. I am satisfied that the damage to 
the wheel was already present when Mr L acquired the car and Im upholding his complaint.  
Putting things right
Im asking Santander to reimburse Mr L the cost of the new wheel together with interest at 
the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement. Mr L is to 
provide a copy of the repair invoice to Santander if he has not already done so.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Im asking Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to pay Mr L the cost of the new wheel together with interest at the yearly 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement. Mr L is to provide a 
copy of the repair invoice to Santander if he has not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman