DRN-1950601
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tuto Money Limited mis-sold his term assurance policies, which led to 
a claim being declined by the insurer.
What happened
Mr W applied for two level term assurance policies through a representative of Tuto Money 
in May 2017.
In 2019 Mr W contacted the insurer to make a claim for terminal illness benefit, but this was 
declined as the insurer said Mr W hadnt disclosed medical conditions he had before he took 
out the policy. It said if it had known specifically about Mr Ws condition of Churg-Straus 
Vasculitis (CSV) it wouldve declined to offer him any cover at all. For this reason there was 
no claim to pay.
Mr W complained about the insurers decision, which was the subject of a separate 
complaint with our service. Mr W also complained to Tuto Money about the sales process. 
As a result of the insurers investigation, Mr W had found out that when hed completed the 
application over the phone, Tuto Moneys adviser had asked him a different question to the 
one posed on the application form about conditions affecting the lungs. Mr W said this had 
been the reason for the misrepresentation and if hed been asked the correct question, he 
wouldve known to disclose his CSV.
Tuto Money didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. It thought Mr W had been asked a 
number of questions which ought to have prompted Mr W to disclose his CSV. And hed also 
been asked to check his answers by the insurer. So, it didnt think it was at fault for the 
misrepresentation and subsequent cancellation of his policies.
Mr W remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. He said hes answered all 
of the questions posed honestly.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Having listened to the sales call where the 
application questions were posed, he thought Mr W had other opportunities to disclose his 
CSV. So, he didnt think the mistake with the question about conditions affecting the lungs 
had been the sole cause of the misrepresentation.
Mr W maintained he wouldve disclosed his CSV if the question had been asked correctly. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr W and that 
this leaves him in a difficult position. But despite the mistake made by Tuto Money when 
asking one of the application questions, I think Mr W ought to have known to disclose his 
CSV during the phone call. Ill explain why.
The Tuto Money adviser asked Mr W the following question:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 2 years 
have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
Any condition affecting your lungs or breathing, for example, asthma, emphysema, sleep 
apnoea, sarcoidosis?
Mr W answered, asthma yes.
The adviser continued to ask the remaining questions under that section then returned to 
Mr Ws disclosure of asthma. He asked:
How long ago did you have symptoms of your asthma?
However, the insurers question actually asked:
How long ago did you last have symptoms of asthma?
Mr W says he interpreted the question asked by the adviser as meaning when he first had 
symptoms of asthma. So, he answered, 10 years.
I dont think that was an unreasonable interpretation of the question asked, so I can 
understand why Mr W answered in this way. However, the adviser then asked:
Have you another condition or illness to tell us about under this heading?
Mr W answered, no.
So, despite the fact the question was incorrectly phrased in relation to his asthma symptoms, 
I think Mr W was directly asked whether he had any other condition or illness that came 
under the heading of conditions affecting his lungs or breathing. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen, Mr W was diagnosed with CSV in 2009, and had experienced significant ongoing 
respiratory symptoms associated with this (including asthma) up to the date of application. 
Hed also been seen in the vasculitis clinic in April 2017 for a review, less than a month 
before he applied for the policy. So, I think he couldve reasonably been expected to disclose 
his CSV in response to this follow-up question. And I dont think the poor phrasing of the 
asthma symptoms question prevented him from disclosing his CSV here.
Im also mindful that earlier in the call, before the adviser started to ask the insurers specific 
questions, the adviser asked Mr W whether he had any pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mr W answered, no. Furthermore, as I understand it, CSV is a condition affecting the blood 
vessels, but it primarily causes respiratory symptoms. One of the insurers questions asked 
by the adviser was whether Mr W had any conditions affecting the blood vessels. Mr W 
answered, no to this. But I think he also couldve disclosed his CSV in response to this 
question.
So, overall, Im not persuaded Mr W wouldve disclosed his CSV even if all of the questions 
had been asked of him correctly. And for this reason, I dont think Mr Ws misrepresentation, 
which led to his declined claim and cancelled policies, can be attributed to failings by Tuto 
Money.Im sorry I couldnt give Mr W the outcome he was hoping for, but I hope he understands 
why Ive reached this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman