DRN-2877351
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the poor service she received from Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) 
following a claim under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs J booked an annual service of her boiler but on the day Amtrust cancelled it. A new date 
was booked and again this was cancelled by Amtrust. Mrs Js boiler broke down and she 
contacted Amtrust who sent an engineer. He repaired the boiler, but the repair wasnt stable, 
and the boiler broke down again. Mrs J said that she was without heating and hot water.
Mrs J contacted Amtrust and secured another annual service booking. Amtrusts engineer 
attended and said that parts were required to fix the boiler, which would take about a week. 
When the time had passed Mrs J contacted Amtrust as she hadnt heard from them. Mrs J 
said that she was told that parts couldnt be found, and it would contact her to discuss 
alternative boiler options. But she heard nothing from Amtrust. 
Mrs J said that eventually having been without heating and hot water for a period of around 
six weeks, she was forced to buy a new boiler at a cost of £2,000. Mrs J complained to 
Amtrust due to the poor service she received and because it had failed to fix her boiler. She 
requested that it reimburse her the cost of her new boiler. 
Amtrust responded to her complaint. It accepted that it was unable to repair the boiler due to 
the part being obsolete and accepted that its level of service had fallen below its usual 
standard. For this, it offered and refunded Mrs Js annual premium of £281. Mrs J refused 
this offer. But Amtrust refunded Mrs J anyway.
In its final response, it again acknowledged the poor service and apologised for it. It 
additionally offered and paid £100 compensation and a further £90.91 refund for the annual 
service that hadnt taken place. In total Amtrust had paid Mrs J £471.91. Mrs J was not 
happy with this outcome so referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered her complaint and didnt uphold it. He said that although 
he accepted that Amtrust had provided Mrs J with poor service and that she had been 
without heating and hot water, Mrs Js policy didnt cover her for a new boiler, and it wouldnt 
be fair for Amtrust to cover the cost of a new one. 
He concluded that Amtrust by refunding Mrs J the premiums she paid as well as refunding 
the cost of the annual service and paying compensation for the trouble and upset caused, 
was fair and what hed expect them to have done. So, there was nothing further he could ask 
of them. 
Mrs J didnt accept our investigators view. She said that Amtrust treated her badly and sent 
inexperienced engineers who couldnt fix her boiler. She questioned why she had cover. She 
said that there were no communications from Amtrust. She said she wasnt disrespecting 
anyone or anyones ability, but she felt she was discriminated against because of her race. 
She asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mrs Js complaint. I appreciate this isn't the outcome 
Mrs J would be hoping for. But I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision.
The main issues with the complaint are the poor service Mrs J experienced and whether 
Amtrusts offer was fair. 
Amtrust has accepted that the service it provided to Mrs J fell far short of its usual standard. 
It accepted that Mrs J had to chase for updates, that it had cancelled appointments at short 
notice. And that Mrs J hadnt been told much earlier that the part required to fix her boiler 
was obsolete. The result of this was that Mrs J had been without heating and hot water for 
some time. Amtrust also accepted that it failed to carry out the annual service as it had been 
contracted to do. 
Mrs J said that she had to take a few days off work and that she had to chase Amtrust when 
it failed to respond or update her. I can see that Mrs J had to make several phone calls to 
chase for updates, there were delays in Amtrust telling Mrs J that the part was obsolete. And 
it isnt disputed that she had to take days off work for failed appointments and no annual 
service was carried out. 
But Amtrust acknowledged and apologised for the poor level of service. And in total offered 
and paid £471.91, which was for the full refund of Mrs Js annual premium, the refund for the 
cost of her annual service, as well as £100 for the trouble and upset this caused. 
I have next considered whether the total amount paid is fair in all the circumstances and I 
think it is and Ill explain why. 
I have reviewed the timeline of the complaint and briefly, specifically dealing with the boiler, 
the timeline is as follows:
23 September 2020, Engineer attended, attempted to fix the boiler but found that the part 
required was obsolete.
1 October 2020, Mrs J contacted Amtrust to tell it that she was considering buying a new 
boiler as she has been without heating and hot water for over a week. Amtrust confirmed 
that it could locate the part and Mrs J should contact when she decided what she wanted to 
do.
20 October 2020, Mrs J contacted Amtrust again for updates. It was then discovered that the 
part that Amtrust had told her it had located was in fact obsolete and Amtrust would not be 
able to replace it. So, Amtrust refunded the annual premium Mrs J had paid, by way of an 
apology for this error. 
26 October 2020, Mrs J contacted Amtrust as she had replaced her boiler and wanted them 
to pay for the full costs. It is clear from the evidence, that Mrs J was inconvenienced by Amtrusts failure to tell her 
sooner that the part was obsolete and that it was unable to fix her boiler. It is also clear that 
there were communication issues  especially as Amtrust confirmed that for nearly three 
weeks it failed to contact Mrs J. But our role isnt to fine or to punish the businesses we 
cover. Rather, we look at the effect on the customer including their upset. 
I can understand why Mrs J was upset and wanted Amtrust to pay for her new boiler, but 
having checked her policy, there is no provision within it that allows for Amtrust to pay for a 
replacement boiler unless the boiler is less than seven years old. Which isnt the case here. 
Notwithstanding the service issues, I think that Amtrust has been reasonable in 
acknowledging its shortcomings and initially refunding the annual premiums. Which meant 
that any repairs that Amtrust did were not charged to Mrs J. 
Amtrust also refunded the annual service, which Amtrust accepted it didnt complete and 
paying compensation for the trouble and upset this caused.  
Mrs J said that although she wasnt disrespecting anyone or anyones ability, but she felt that 
she was being discriminated against because of her race. I have looked at this and 
considered the call records to see if Amtrust discriminated against Mrs J.  
Mrs J hasnt provided me with any other evidence to support her opinion. And having 
reviewed the call records and what Mrs J has said, I can see no evidence to suggest that 
any of the agents treated Mrs J unfairly or was prejudiced towards her. I can understand that 
Mrs J felt frustrated by Amtrusts poor service, but Im not satisfied that Amtrust 
discriminated against Mrs J, based on her race. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think Amtrust need to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
Amtrust Europe Limited has already offered and paid a total of £471.91 to settle the 
complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman