DRN-4243482
The complaint
Miss O complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) hasnt refunded her after she fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
Miss O says that she was looking for a job when she saw an advert for a customer service 
role and completed an application. She was contacted by someone who explained that the 
role involved promoting newly listed products on an online platform. Miss O was then added 
to group chats and told that she would earn commission but that she needed to deposit 
funds to create a transaction record between buyers and sellers. 
Miss O was initially able to withdraw her profit but was then told she needed to deposit funds 
to complete the required tasks before she could make a withdrawal. She later received a 
message from someone who said shed been scammed.
I have set out in the table below the scam payments Miss O made. When making the 
payments, Miss O followed the scammers instructions to transfer to card to an individuals 
card details.
Date Amount
13/04/23 £100
13/05/23 £100
13/05/23 £59.59
13/05/23 £47.47
13/05/23 £202.00
13/05/23 £101
14/05/23 £244.42
14/05/23 £101
20/05/23 £797.90
20/05/23 £1,417.03
21/05/23 £80
TOTAL £3,250.41 less 
returns 
 
Miss O reported what had happened to Revolut on 24 May 2023. Revolut said it fulfilled its 
duty to protect Miss O by providing warnings. Unhappy with Revoluts response, Miss O 
brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
the scam payments werent so unusual that Revolut should have intervened when they were 
made and that as they were card payments there was nothing it could do to recover Miss Os 
funds. 
Miss O didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so her 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Miss O was the victim of a scam and of the impact the scam has had on 
her. I can understand why she wants to do all she can to recover the money she lost. But I 
can only direct Revolut to refund Miss Os losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held 
responsible for them. 
Im satisfied Miss O authorised the scam payments from her existing Revolut account. 
Although she didnt intend the money to go to the scammer, under the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of her account, Miss O is presumed to be liable for 
her loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account Miss O held 
with Revolut, where a valid payment instruction has been received, Revoluts obligation is to 
follow the instructions that Miss O provides. 
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut as an electronic money institute (EMI) to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud.  
In this case, I dont consider Revolut acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payments 
to be made and will explain why.
Ive reviewed the transactions Miss O made on her account from when it was opened in 
February 2023. I can see that prior to the scam Miss O had made payments of up to £300. In 
the circumstances, nearly all the scam transactions were very much in line with her normal 
spending on the account. 
There were two larger transactions on 20 May 2023. Although I recognise the combined 
value of these transactions was a lot of money for Miss O to lose and that she had borrowed 
funds, Im not satisfied the payments were so unusual and out of character that Revolut 
should have intervened to ask Miss O questions about them. The amount of each 
transaction was still relatively low. Theres also a balance to be struck; banks and EMIs (like 
Revolut) have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best 
interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause unnecessary 
disruption to legitimate payments.
Im also satisfied that there was nothing Revolut could do to recover Miss Os funds given 
the method of payment used. 
Whilst Im sorry that Miss O has been duped to transfer funds to cruel scammers, I cant 
fairly hold Revolut responsible for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman