DRN-4142087
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that her motor insurer, QIC Europe Ltd (QIC), delayed repairing her 
car which meant that some of the repairs werent covered by her warranty provider.
 
QIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Throughout the claim Mrs W was also 
dealing with other companies who act as QICs agents. As QIC has accepted it is 
accountable for the actions of the agents, in my decision, any reference to QIC includes the 
actions of the agents.
What happened
Mrs W was involved in an accident which resulted in her car needing repairs. The repairs 
started at the end of March 2022 and were being undertaken by one of QICs approved 
repairers. The repairers called Mrs W one week into the repairs and said the steering was 
stiff but as this wasnt accident-related damage they couldnt get involved or provide a quote 
to repair it. Mrs W said herself that steering issues started before the car went in for repairs.
 
Mrs W then contacted her warranty provider who said they needed an estimate from her 
within 30 days. Mrs W said she kept calling the repairer and making it aware of this but she 
kept being told that the car would be returned to her in good time. QICs repairer returned 
the car to Mrs W two days before the deadline provided by the warranty company. Mrs W 
said she provided the warranty company with the estimate but they said they couldnt honour 
it because it was seven days late. 
QIC issued a final response and didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had an obligation to 
make sure that repairs were completed to a commercially acceptable standard before 
releasing the car. It accepted that there were delays but said they were out of its control. It 
suggested that Mrs W complains to her warranty company and said it would provide a letter 
to confirm the car was in for repairs which meant that it wasnt possible to provide an 
estimate within 30 days as requested by the warranty company.
 
Mrs W didnt agree. She said the car was already with QIC for a week and a half before it 
decided to move it to a workshop and to let her know the steering was stiff. She said QIC 
didnt communicate well with her and kept delaying the return of her car. She added that it 
was physically not possible for her to provide the warranty company with an estimate in the 
time she was left with.
Mrs W then complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She said she wanted to be 
reimbursed for the cost of repairing the steering plus interest. One of our Investigators 
reviewed the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He thought the complaint should 
be directed to the warranty company.
 
Mrs W didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She repeated that QICs 
delays led to her claim being rejected by the warranty company.
Before I issued my decision, I asked QIC whether Mrs W had been provided with a courtesy 
car. I also noted that there was a long delay in Mrs Ws car being inspected. QIC said that it 
spoke to its approved repairer who said that Mrs W had a courtesy car while her car was 
being repaired. In terms of the delay, it said this was down to a nationwide parts shortage. 
I asked our Investigator to relay this to Mrs W and to confirm that I would be issuing my 
decision shortly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret for the disappointment this may cause, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. I trust that my reasons below will help Mrs W understand why I have arrived at this 
decision. 
Mrs W has sent a fair amount of information and documentation to us which I have 
considered but will not address individually in this decision. In doing so I dont mean any 
discourtesy to Mrs W but Id like to explain that as an informal dispute resolution service we 
aim to keep our decisions as concise and to the point as possible.
  
Mrs W complained that QICs repairers took too long and this resulted in her warranty 
company not agreeing to reimburse her for the cost of repairing her steering. The car was 
taken in for repairs on 31 March and those repairs were completed by 27 April. Mrs W 
informed her warranty provider on 31 March about the issues with the steering and it asked 
her to provide a quote within 30 days. Mrs W provided an estimate a few days after the 
deadline and the warranty company refused to reimburse her.
From what I have seen, Mrs W was told by QICs approved repairer that it couldnt provide 
her with an estimate but would return the car to her before the deadline set by the warranty 
company. I havent seen any notes of Mrs W being updated but I see that QIC said the car 
was returned to her two days before the deadline. I accept that the repairs would have had 
to take as long as was necessary to ensure they were done safely and accept there was 
likely an impact on the garages work due to the parts shortage. In the circumstances I dont 
think the repairs took an unreasonable amount of time to complete; so much so as to say 
that there were avoidable delays meaning that QIC should be responsible for losses that 
flowed from this i.e. the warranty companys refusal to cover the steering repair costs. It 
follows that I dont think QIC was responsible for the warranty providers refusal to cover the 
claim.
Though this decision is not about the warranty company it does seem to me that they are 
being rather inflexible and, like our Investigator, I would suggest that Mrs W complains to 
them. If she is unhappy with their response, she can, if possible, look to see if she can 
complain to an alternative dispute resolution service that might be considering complaints 
about that specific company.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I am not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman