DRN-2079107
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service Schroder Unit Trusts Limited provided him as he says it 
failed to adequately answer his questions relating to his stocks and shares Individual 
Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Mr H has holdings in Schroders income and equity funds within his stocks and shares ISA. 
He says when he spoke to an advisor to enquire about the performance of the funds, the 
advisor was unable to provide an answer. He says he was promised a written explanation in 
relation to this but didnt receive one. Mr H is also unhappy that Schroder hasnt explained 
why it changed its UK registrar services from one provider to another. He also says it hasnt 
explained why it was acting as the sole authorised corporate director nor has it provided 
supporting evidence to show this was in the best interest of the investors. 
Schroder says its advisors are not investment specialists which is why its advisor couldnt 
comment on the performance of these funds when Mr H called. It says it did provide a 
written explanation about the funds performance in January 2020 where it set out the 
following:
Schroders income fund delivers returns from two sources i.e. income generated by 
dividends, and through the improvement in share prices in the companies invested 
Schroders investment style is value focused (rather than growth focused) i.e. 
investing in companies that have been underperforming but Schroder feels are 
undervalued and offer potential for increasing in price  so over the long term this 
style of investing is better  
September 2019 to the time of its letter, the value style of investing had a difficult 
time, but this was not linked to the change in share class
whilst the performance of the individual holding in the fund didnt do so well, the fund 
income strategy continued to perform as it expected, as such the fund remained on 
track to deliver its 7% annual target yield in 2019
the equity fund underperformed for the same reasons as the income fund. The 
growth stocks that have been performing were overvalued and offered limited 
potential for further growth. In time the fund manager expects the gap between the 
performance value and growth style to narrow to benefit the investors in value shares 
past performance is not a guide to future performance and the value of investments 
and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not get 
back the amount originally invested
its advisors could not answer this question when Mr H called as Schroder wants to 
ensure an accurate and satisfactory response was provided so the query was 
referred to the best-placed people in the business to give an informed answer in 
writing
Schroder also says it wrote to Mr H at the start of February 2020 where it set out the 
following:
Schroder as the authorised corporate director for the income and equity funds were 
in the best interest of its investors
there was information available for investors to make an informed choice before 
selecting one of its funds 
its unable to provide evidence of its internal strategic decision-making process 
regarding the selection of an authorised corporate director 
it changed UK registrar service providers to build upon its global strategic partnership 
and these changes were made to provide a more efficient and improved service to 
investors, but there would be no change to Mr Hs underlying investments and no 
costs would be incurred as a result 
Mr H was unhappy with Schroders response, so he brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. In short, she thought 
Schroder had answered Mr Hs concerns and questions, it apologised when the advisor 
gave an incorrect timescale on acknowledging Mr Hs concern about the performance of 
these funds and it didnt need to provide supporting evidence that may be commercially 
sensitive. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. As no agreement 
could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint - Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to set out what Ill be considering in this decision. Ill be looking at whether 
Schroder responded to Mr H queries, but I wont be commenting on whether Schroder 
should be the corporate director or who its registrar is. 
Mr H called Schroder around the end of November 2019 to enquire about the performance 
of his investments in some income and equity funds. Mr H wanted to know why the value 
had gone down by 10%. Mr H was unhappy with this call as he says the advisor was unable 
to answer his query.
Schroder wrote to Mr H a few days later to acknowledge Mr Hs concern. It accepted that its 
advisor had provided incorrect timescales in the call about when an acknowledgement to 
Mr H would be sent. It also explained that its advisors needed to refer matters such as fund 
performance to senior management for a response, which had been done and a response 
would be issued in due course. 
Schroder wrote again to Mr H at the start of January 2020, the content of which Ive set out 
above. Mr H says he didnt receive this letter. I can see the letter was addressed to Mr H 
which is to the same address our service holds for him. So, I think more likely than not the 
letter was sent to Mr H. I appreciate Mr H wanted an answer to his query when he called 
Schroder however, I dont think its unreasonable for the advisor to refer the matter to the 
most appropriate person to respond.
Mr H raised further concerns at the end of January 2020. He says Schroder hadnt explained 
why it changed its UK registrar services from one provider to another. He also says it hasnt 
explained why it was acting as the sole authorised corporate director nor has it provided 
supporting evidence to show this was in the best interest of the investors. Schroder wrote to Mr H at the start of February 2020, the content of which Ive set out 
above. Taking this letter into account, I cant say Schroders hasnt answered Mr Hs queries. 
I understand Mr H has requested for evidence to show why Schroder was acting as the sole 
authorised corporate director however, I dont think its required to share internal information 
which may potentially be commercially sensitive.
Overall, I think Schroder has provided answers to Mr Hs queries and as such I wont be 
asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Asia Khanam
Ombudsman