DRN-2199975
The complaint
Mr G has complained on behalf of Mr C that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a 
claim under his home insurance policy for stolen jewellery and cancelled his policy.
What happened
In 2019 Mr C made a claim to UKI for stolen jewellery.
UKI declined the claim. It said seven items were the same in weight and value as items Mr C 
had claimed for in 2012. That earlier claim had been declined as UKI said Mr C hadnt 
complied with a security condition in the policy. UKI cancelled Mr Cs policy from the date of 
the most recent claim.
Mr C said there were two different sets of jewellery given to him and his ex-wife by their 
parents on their wedding. He said his ex-wifes set had been stolen in 2012 and his in 2019.
UKI didnt change its decision. Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold it. He didnt think UKI had treated Mr C unfairly due to various contradictions in 
what Mr C had told UKI and the fact he couldnt prove he was claiming for a different set of 
jewellery than that previously claimed for.
As Mr C didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For UKI to decline the claim and cancel the policy for fraud it must show that there was a 
dishonest attempt by Mr C to deceive it into paying for something he wasnt entitled to. An 
example of fraud is when a consumer makes a claim that should be paid under the policy but 
exaggerates what theyre claiming for. So they might say more items were stolen from their 
property as a result of the insured event (in this case, the burglary) than actually was the 
case.
When looking at fraud cases I bear in mind that fraud is a serious matter. So if thats what 
the business thinks has happened, I might require more evidence than usual. Theres no 
need for the insurer to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. But it does need to show 
strong and persuasive proof that its more likely than not that the consumers claim is 
fraudulent. For the avoidance of doubt we make decisions based on the facts and 
evidence provided by the parties. Its not our role to decide whether or not a customers 
claim is fraudulent. What we look at is whether a business reached a reasonable decision 
about this. 
Its the responsibility of both parties to a contract to act in an honest and open manner. 
When he was asked by UKI whether hed had any other jewellery claims, Mr C said he 
hadnt. When UKI reminded him of the 2012 claim, he said his ex-wife had dealt with that 
claim. UKIs business file contains a lot of communication regarding the 2012 claim and it 
shows that Mr C rather than his ex-wife was heavily involved in the claim at that time.
In 2012 Mr C told UKI all our jewellery had been stolen. UKIs agent reported that the 
majority of the jewellery claimed for at the time had been "gifted to the Insured by their two 
respective sets of parents and family for their wedding in 2007". Mr C has clarified that by 
all our jewellery he meant all the jewellery they had in the UK at the time. He said his 
matching set of wedding jewellery was kept by his parents abroad until they brought it to 
the UK on visits in 2017 and 2018. His parents have since confirmed this in writing.
Mr C also told UKI in 2019 that his ex-wife had only one jewelled headpiece. However, the 
same item appears on the list of stolen items in the 2012 claim. Mr C said hed 
misunderstood the question.
These are all things that undermine Mr Cs claim. I appreciate that hes provided 
explanations for each of the main concerns listed by UKI but I can understand why they 
werent enough to allay its concerns. None of these inconsistencies would be enough on 
their own to justify declining the claim on the ground of fraud. But taken together I think 
theyre sufficient to justify concerns on the part of UKI with regard to the claim. I can also see 
that there were also other inconsistencies which came to light in the course of investigating 
the claim. Taking all this into account, Im satisfied it wasnt unreasonable for UKI to decide 
to use the fraud condition within the policy to decline Mr Cs claim and cancel the policy. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman