DRN-4296934
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited failed to authorise the 
repairs to his car under his motor insurance policy following an accident.
What happened
Mr S was involved in an accident on 7 January 2023 which he reported. He chose to have 
his car repaired using his own repairers and his car damage was assessed there. That 
meant Mr S would have to pay an additional excess, to which he agreed. 
Mr Ss chosen repairers prepared an estimate of the damage to his car dated 20 February 
2023. Mulsanne said it received this estimate on 9 March 2023. The repair estimate was for 
£8,146.70. 
Mr S said despite constantly chasing Mulsanne, and its agents, he never received any 
authorisation for his car to be repaired. This meant his chosen repairers said they would start 
charging him £35 per day storage fees. And latterly said they would have to scrap his car if 
the matter wasnt sorted out. 
Mr S also said that when he took out this policy with the brokers in April 2022, he bought 
cover which would provide him with a hire car, should his be undriveable in a situation like 
this where his car needed to be repaired following an accident. He said he was offered a 
much smaller car which wasnt suitable for his needs.
 
Mulsanne said this cover for a hire car was a separate policy and covered by a different 
insurer. It said in its policy, a courtesy car was only available if Mr S used its own approved 
repairers, not his own chosen ones. Therefore, it had no duty under its policy to provide Mr S 
with a courtesy car whilst his car was being repaired. 
Given the delay in getting his car repaired, Mr S brought his complaint to us. The investigator 
thought it should be upheld and that Mulsanne should authorise the repairs as estimated by 
Mr Ss chosen repairers and pay Mr Ss chosen repairers to allow his car to be released, and 
indeed repaired. The investigator also recommended that the settlement should include 
payment for any storage costs charged. He also felt this delay had caused Mr S 
considerable distress and inconvenience and was of the view that Mulsanne should pay Mr 
S £500 compensation.
 
Mr S agreed. And although Mulsanne said it would agree to the investigators view, it merely 
wanted Mr Ss bank details instead. 
Therefore, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Mr Ss policy, underwritten by Mulsanne, clearly covers the repair of the car following an 
accident which is what happened. It also provides that Mr S can use his own chosen 
repairers provided he pays an additional excess. 
The policy states the following in relation to Mr S using his own chosen repairer: 
If you choose to use an alternative repairer:
 we will not guarantee the work after you have signed a customer satisfaction note 
and the insured vehicle has been returned to you by the repairer; and
 we will only pay for repairs carried out by an alternative repairer, if we have 
confirmed the repairs can proceed in writing to you; and
 we will not pay more than the cost of repairs had the work been undertaken by our 
approved repairer. In these circumstances we may at our option settle the claim for 
repairs to the insured vehicle by making a cash payment for the amount quoted by 
our approved repairer less the excess which applies to the claim.
Mulsanne has confirmed it received the estimate from Mr Ss chosen repairers in March 
2023 but then it singularly failed to action it. As yet, we have received no explanation as to 
why. 
Mulsanne also said it was now willing to pay for the repairs and told us it had requested Mr 
Ss bank details. However, the policy demands that Mulsanne now authorises Mr Ss chosen 
repairers to repair his car and then it should pay for those repairs. If Mulsanne wishes to pay 
Mr S directly, as it appears it is suggesting, it must get Mr Ss express consent to do that. 
Further, given the delays, Mr Ss chosen repairers have incurred storage charges and I 
consider its appropriate that Mulsanne clarify those storage charges with Mr Ss chosen 
repairers directly and ensure they are fully paid, so that there is no outstanding duty on Mr K 
to pay anything in relation to these costs.
Mr S said when he bought this policy through his brokers, he also bought extra cover to 
ensure he was provided with a hire car in situations where his car needed repairs. He 
complained he wasnt provided with a suitable car for his family needs.  However, that 
element of Mr Ss cover is not part of his policy with Mulsanne. In this policy, Mulsanne 
would only provide a small hire car for the duration of the repairs if Mr S had opted to use its 
approved repairers, which he didnt do. Therefore, I cant consider Mr Ss complaint about 
this in this decision which is set up against Mulsanne only. If Mr K wishes to complain about 
the hire car that was offered, Mr S would need to contact the provider of that element of his 
cover directly.
 
Under this complaint Mr S would have a loss of use claim given the excessive delay by 
Mulsanne in authorising the repairs of his car. However, I consider that in view of the extra 
cover Mr S  bought , that ostensibly he was entitled to a car for the duration of the repairs 
from the other provider, and therefore I consider Mulsanne wouldnt be responsible for this 
loss of use claim in these particular circumstances. 
Clearly the delays and lack of contact from Mulsanne have caused Mr S some considerable 
distress and inconvenience, more so since he has a young family, and his car was needed 
for that level of normal activity. I agree with the investigators view that Mulsanne should pay 
Mr S £500 compensation considering the extensive delays. This is in keeping with our 
general approach and mirrors other awards I have made in similar cases.  My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Authorise Mr Ss chosen repairers to repair Mr Ss car as per the estimate it 
produced. 
Following completion of the repairs, pay his chosen repairer in full. 
Ensure any storage charges raised by Mr Ss chosen repairer are fully paid. 
Alternatively, and only at Mr Ss election, arrange to pay Mr S direct for the repairs in 
accordance with his chosen repairers estimate plus the outstanding storage charges.
Pay Mr S £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman