DRN-3554517
Complaint
Miss K is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against her. 
Background
In June 2019, Miss Ks account received a payment of £5,000.00 from a third-party. 
Santander immediately placed a block on Miss Ks account and asked her to prove her 
entitlement to the funds. By August 2019, Santander wasnt happy with the evidence 
provided in relation to the £5,000.00 payment. But it was satisfied with the evidence provided 
in relation to the rest of the funds in the account and released them. Nonetheless, it decided 
to close Miss Ks account at this stage.
A number of months later, Santander received an indemnity request from the bank which 
sent the £5,000.00 asking for the funds to be returned as its customer had reported being a 
victim of fraud. Santander then went on to register a fraud prevention marker against Miss K. 
In 2021, after learning that Santander had recorded a fraud prevention marker against her, 
Miss K complained to Santander. Santander looked at Miss Ks complaint and didnt uphold 
it. As Miss K remained dissatisfied, she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ks concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done enough to show that Miss K was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Miss K. Despite being given additional time to do so, Santander 
didnt provide a substantive response. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed with is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss K is guilty of a fraud or 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Miss Ks account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss K was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. This can include Miss K allowing someone else to use her account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Ks complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Ks account and that she was 
complicit in this. Its important to note Santander had to have enough evidence to meet both 
parts of test for it to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, it does appear to be the case that the funds which credited         
Miss Ks account in June 2019 were fraudulent. So I can understand why Santander had 
concerns about the usage on Miss Ks account. However, as Ive already explained, this in 
itself isnt enough to register a fraud prevention marker against a customer. Santander also 
has to produce sufficient evidence to show Miss K was complicit in fraud. And I dont think 
that it has done that here.
Santander says that when Miss K was asked to prove her entitlement to the funds she 
provided a lot of information which didnt relate to this payment. However, I dont think that 
this is surprising given she was initially asked to prove her entitlement to all the funds in her 
account for a number of months. And given there seems to be no dispute that Miss K was 
out of the country when this all took place, I dont think the delay in her responding to 
Santander or providing what was requested is indicative of any complicity here. 
In any event, Miss K has told us the payment was for the purchase of foreign currency. She 
has provided us with evidence from an agent showing a foreign currency transfer amount 
roughly equivalent to £5,000.00. Shes also provided us with messages to and from the 
agent and from the person who received the foreign currency to the agent. 
Furthermore, Miss K has also provided a copy of the statement from the UK account the 
funds were transferred from, which was sent to the agent as proof the £5,000.00 was sent. 
This was sent to the agent when Miss K got in contact with the agent after matters relating to 
this dispute began. All of this information does appear to indicate that Miss K was 
reasonably entitled to believe she was engaging in a legitimate transaction. 
More importantly it is Santanders responsibility to demonstrate that Miss K was knowingly 
part of the fraud. And I think that it has failed to do that here. Santander needs to have 
relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to the police. In other 
words, a reasonable suspicion Miss K was a willing participant in any fraud. Simply pointing 
out that fraud may have taken place just isnt enough to meet what is a high bar. This is 
especially the case seeing as Miss Ks version of events here appears to be both plausible 
and persuasive.   
Furthermore, there isnt any evidence indicating that Miss K made a financial gain either as 
she appears to have transferred the equivalent of £5,000.00 in foreign currency from one of 
her accounts abroad. So Ive not seen anything to suggest that Miss K benefitted from the 
fraudulent funds and would question why shed knowingly participate in a fraud where she 
didnt stand to benefit.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Santander had sufficient evidence to meet the test for recording a fraud marker against Miss K. As this is the case, I 
think that it was unfair for Santander Bank to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. So Im upholding Miss Ks complaint and Santander needs to any 
and all fraud markers it has recorded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded it has recorded against Miss K. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman