The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to Mr H when he 
took out a store card in 1991. Allianz Insurance Plc, as the policy insurer, has accepted 
responsibility for the complaint, so Ill refer to Allianz throughout this decision.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld.   
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the original application form Mr H used to apply for his account. There is 
a section on the form about PPI and theres a box to tick if it was something that Mr H 
wanted to have. And I can see this box has been ticked.
So I think Mr H agreed to the policy. And I think hed have been aware at the time it was 
optional and something he didnt have to take it out in order to get the card. But I can 
understand if he cant recall this after so many years.
Mr H feels strongly that he took the PPI only because it was strongly recommended to him 
and that it wasnt explained why it was right for him. And I do see the application does say 
We strongly recommend you take this cover.
But in my opinion this is a generic recommendation made to all customers and not a 
personal recommendation specifically tailored to Mr Hs circumstances. If Allianz had given 
Mr H formal advice about the policy it would have needed to carry out a financial review 
before giving advice and I think its unlikely that happened here.
From experience these type of accounts were generally opened in a store with the shop 
assistant handing out a leaflet to complete and return.
Because of this I dont think the shop assistant gave Mr H formal advice about the PPI. So 
Allianz didnt have to make sure it was suitable for him. But Allianz did have to give Mr H 
clear information about the policy so he could decide for himself whether to take it out.
DRN-1909962Its possible Allianz didnt give Mr H all the information it shouldve. But even if it had done 
so I dont think Mr H wouldve acted differently and declined the PPI.
This is because I can see from the application form that Mr H was interested in this type of 
cover. Mr H was eligible for the cover and not affected by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations of the policy. For instance Mr H has told us he didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions which wouldnt be covered by the policy.
The cost of the policy couldve been made clearer but Ive not seen anything to make me 
think it wasnt affordable for Mr H. And it wouldve paid a monthly benefit of 15% of the 
outstanding balance each month if Mr H couldnt work through sickness, or if he lost his job. 
And itd continue to pay until the balance was cleared or Mr H returned to work.
Mr H has told us his employer would have paid him sick pay for up to three months. But the 
policy wouldve paid the monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay Mr H received, and most 
likely for longer. Itd also mean Mr H didnt have to use his savings to meet the monthly 
repayments. So I think hed have found the policy useful if things went wrong.
Ive listened to everything Mr H has told us. To be clear, I dont think Allianz gave Mr H a 
personal recommendation to buy the policy. But even if I found that it had done, it wouldnt 
change the outcome of my decision. Thats because, for all the reasons Ive listed in this 
decision I think the policy was likely right for him. He was eligible for the cover and wasnt 
caught by any of the main limitations. Mr Hs employer only paid sick pay for up to 3 months 
so he had a need for the cover in the event of longer-term illness. And the policy looks to 
have been affordable and gave a good level of benefit.
In summary, I think Mr H was made aware the policy was optional and he chose to take it 
out. I think its likely the information given to him about the policy couldve been clearer. But 
even if Mr H was given all the clear information he should have, I think hed still have bought 
it. So I dont think Mr H has lost out because of anything Allianz did may have done wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and I make no award against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman