DRN-3136841
The complaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from what she 
believes to be a scam investment. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In September 2019 Mrs H made a series of debit card payments and one international 
transfer to a Foreign Exchange trading company Ill refer to as M. The total amount paid 
from her HSBC account was around £72,000. 
On 24 September 2019 Mrs H contacted HSBC and disputed all the payments as she said 
shed been unable to withdraw her funds from her trading account. HSBC asked Mrs H for 
further information to enable them to consider a chargeback for the debit card payments. 
Ultimately HSBC said they were unable to assist through the chargeback scheme. 
Mrs H complained and the matter was later considered by our service. One of our 
Investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. In 
summary she concluded there was insufficient evidence to establish that M had been 
operating a fraud or scam. As such, she said there was no obligation on HSBC to intervene 
in authorised payments or to advise Mrs H. Mrs H disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman 
to review her complaint. 
In May 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering. But when simply executing authorised 
payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has confirmed that a fraud 
warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice.  
At the relevant time M were regulated by Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission 
(CySec). They were also at that time able to offer their services to the UK which is shown on 
the FCAs financial services register. 
As Ive mentioned above, HSBC have no obligation to protect customers from bad bargains 
or to provide investment advice. Here, some of the payments were stopped by HSBC and a 
hold was placed on Mrs Hs account. Once Mrs H confirmed the transactions as genuine, the 
blocks were removed, and the further payments were allowed. So, even if I were to conclude 
that HSBC ought to have done more to warn Mrs H against the possibility of a fraud or scam, 
Im not persuaded this would have made a difference in these specific circumstances. 
I say this because M were regulated at the time and Mrs Hs own evidence supports that 
shed checked the FCA website herself prior to investing. So even if warned of the possibility 
of a fraud or scam, I think its most likely Mrs H would have made her payments in any case. 
Shed already conducted some of the checks that I would have expected HSBC to have 
recommended. And had she made further enquiries these would have resulted in her 
confirming that M were regulated by CySec.
Ive also considered whether, in relation to the debit card payments, HSBC ought to have 
done more to pursue a chargeback. HSBC are bound by the card scheme operators rules 
which in this case is Visa. But there are some very specific evidential requirements for this to 
have been an option. Ive seen evidence that Mrs H has provided which includes 
screenshots of her trading account with M. But I dont think any of the evidence submitted 
meets the requirements of the Visa scheme. Mrs H would have needed to have provided 
evidence of an available balance and a withdrawal request on the same date for an amount 
equal to or less than the available balance. 
The withdrawal request evidence Mrs H has provided and that Ive seen is a screenshot of a 
prefilled online form on Ms website, which is dated 25 September 2019. But this doesnt 
evidence that a withdrawal request was submitted to M. There is also an email draft from the 
same date. But again, nothing to evidence that this was sent. 
And even if the requests were sent, Ive not seen evidence of an available balance on that 
date. I note there is evidence suggestive of there being a balance on other dates around that 
time. But these show a total balance along with an amount of equity. And having read the 
terms of the agreement between Mrs H and M, its apparent she was required to keep a 
certain balance on the amount as margin in relation to any open trades. None of the 
evidence Ive seen confirms what the position or available balance was at the time of the 
withdrawal request screenshot. So, I dont think Mrs H had the evidence needed to meet the 
requirements of the Visa chargeback scheme. 
I appreciate there was some issue about whether HSBC received the evidence Mrs H 
submitted. But given the digital nature of the evidence (that being screenshots), I dont think 
its likely Mrs H submitted evidence to HSBC that she didnt save a copy of. And shes 
provided our service with a considerable amount of such evidence and I think its most likely 
what she sent our service, is what she sent to HSBC. Taking all of this together, I dont think 
Mrs H was disadvantaged by HSBCs decision not to pursue a chargeback.
Having carefully considered this complaint, Im acutely aware of the significant impact this 
whole situation has had on Mrs H. And Im of course very sorry to hear that she has lost 
such a significant amount of money. Much of her submissions focussed on the actions and 
behaviour of M and their staff. And Ive no reason to doubt her testimony that there were 
some sharp sales and trading practices involved. But HSBC arent responsible for the 
actions of another regulated business. Im pleased to see that our Investigator has already 
signposted Mrs H to CySec if she remains unhappy with the conduct of M. Im also aware 
that the Cyprus Ombudsman Service may be able to assist her. But for the reasons Ive 
explained above, Im not currently intending to uphold this complaint.
Mrs H didnt respond to my provisional decision. HSBC responded to say they had nothing to 
add. Now both parties have had an opportunity to respond, I can go ahead with my final 
decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman