The complaint
Ms K complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on 
her motor insurance policy. Ms K is a named driver on her partner, Mr As, policy along with 
Ms Z and Miss F.  
What happened
Ms K raised 10 points of complaint with Admiral. These related, in summary, to its decision 
on liability, its communication with her, its payment for repairs to the other drivers car, its 
assessment of her car, and its attitude to the other driver continuing to drive an 
unroadworthy car. 
Admiral upheld the communication issues. It said it had probably overpaid the other drivers 
claim, but it was too late to claw back any overpayment. It said it had made some decisions 
to avoid unnecessary costs. But it said that its decision on liability was correct. And that it 
couldnt stop the other driver from driving her car. Admiral paid Ms K £250 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused. But Ms K remained unhappy. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admirals 
offer of £250 compensation for mistakes in its handling of the claim was fair and reasonable. 
But he thought Admiral should also review the other drivers independent assessors report 
and recalculate the likely cost of repairs held on Ms Ks record.
Ms K replied that she wanted Admiral to reinvestigate her claim. She listed several points 
that she thought hadnt been considered by the investigator. She also asked for a review of 
her increased premium. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K said her premium had doubled since the claim. As the investigator has already 
explained, this isnt something I can consider here as Ms K hasnt complained to Admiral 
about this first and given it a chance to respond. Ms K has also asked that we investigate the 
other insurer and driver. But, under the rules that govern us, I can only look at Ms Ks 
complaint against her insurer, Admiral. 
Ms K wants Admiral to reinvestigate the claim. I can see that shes very unhappy with its 
decision to hold her liable for the accident. The investigator has already explained that it isnt 
our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
DRN-1536784made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy?
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Ms K to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it sees fit. Ms K has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
Ms K described the circumstances of the accident. She said shed pulled out of a parking 
place and was stationary on the road when the other driver entered the road, passing a Give 
Way sign, and collided with her car.
I can see that Admiral considered the two drivers versions of events, the damage caused 
and the lack of evidence showing that the other driver didnt stop at the Give Way sign. Its 
engineer thought the damage to Ms Ks car didnt provide evidence that she was stationary 
at the time. It thought it would be unable to defend the claim in court. As the greater duty of 
care was on Ms K as she was pulling out into the road, it thought she would be held liable. 
So it paid the claim, on a without prejudice basis, and later accepted liability.
Ms K was concerned that Admiral paid the claim before liability was accepted. But I think 
Admiral did this on a without prejudice basis after fairly investigating the claim and 
considering the evidence available. So I cant say that this caused Ms K any loss. Admiral 
explained that its decision was made to stop incurring further costs, as its entitled to do by 
the policy terms and conditions. Ms K wanted it to reinvestigate the claim, but I cant see that 
Admiral has any further evidence to consider, so I dont think this would be reasonable. 
So I think Admiral acted fairly and reasonably, and within the policy terms and conditions in 
deciding to hold Ms K liable for the accident. I dont require it to change its decision. 
Ms K was unhappy that Admiral didnt act against the other driver for driving her 
unroadworthy car. But, as the investigator has already explained, this isnt Admirals role. Its 
role is to deal with her claim. It cant stop the other driver from driving her car. And there 
wasnt evidence that the car was unroadworthy when Ms K saw it being driven two months 
after the accident as it may have been repaired and passed its MOT. 
Admirals in-house engineer reviewed the other drivers independent assessors report. He 
thought the accident had likely caused cosmetic damage, not structural damage that would 
make the car unroadworthy. 
So Admiral thought it had likely overpaid the claim for repairs. It told Ms K that it was too late 
to recover any overpayment. But I think it should still put things right for Miss K. 
Putting things right
The investigator recommended that Admiral should recalculate the likely correct cost for 
repairs and amend the claim cost on Ms Ks record accordingly. 
I think this would restore Ms Ks position so she wouldnt then suffer any disadvantage 
because of Admirals error. So I think this would be fair and reasonable. 
Admiral has already upheld Ms Ks concerns about its communication with her and some 
aspects of its claim handling. Ive looked at these, and I agree that it could have provided a 
better level of service at times. Admiral paid Ms K a total of £250 compensation for this. And I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in similar 
circumstances. I dont require Admiral to increase this.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to review the costs of the claim and remove any 
overpayments made for repairs to the other drivers car from Ms Ks record. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, Ms F, Miss K 
and X to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman