DRN-3150177
The complaint
Miss W complains that she was mis-sold a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) in May 2006 
by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W says that she didnt ask for the GAVA or consent to it, and it was not suitable for her.
Lloyds says it recommended the GAVA to her as it was suitable for her at the time and it 
says it explained the costs and benefits in full.
I wasnt at the sale and cant know directly what happened. So, I can only base my decision 
on the evidence available today.
This sale was an upgrade from a Select Added Value Account (SAVA) which Miss W had 
taken out several months previously. Lloyds has upheld her complaint about the sale of the 
SAVA. Miss W went on to upgrade from her GAVA to a Platinum Added Value Account 
(PAVA) in 2009, and Lloyds has upheld her complaint about the sale of the PAVA.
I note both, and I understand why Lloyds has done so, but I must apply the principles of this 
service to the sale of the GAVA as previously explained by our adjudicator.
In my view Miss W knew that fee free accounts were available as shed had one previously. 
And both fee free accounts and fee-paying accounts were widely available and advertised.
When the upgrade to the GAVA happened, there would have been a change of branding on 
her correspondence and an increase in the monthly fee would have shown on her 
statements.
So I think its more likely than not than not that if Miss W hadnt wanted to upgrade to a 
GAVA, she would have queried these changes and then been able to obtain the type of 
account she wanted either with Lloyds or elsewhere. But she didnt and she kept the account 
for many years.
So, I think its more likely than not that Miss W knew she had a choice and chose to take out 
the GAVA.
As Lloyds advised Miss W to take out the GAVA, I think it would have explained the cost and 
benefits in detail as it was trying to sell it to her.
The GAVA benefits included worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown cover, mobile phone 
insurance and an interest free overdraft buffer. The main difference in the benefits of the 
SAVA and the GAVA was the worldwide travel insurance.
Lloyds has provided evidence that in 2006, Miss W had a car and mobile phone; she 
occasionally went overdrawn; and took a long haul trip overseas soon after the upgrade.  
Miss W says that she had alternative provision for some of these things from her union 
membership.
But that doesnt mean the GAVA was unsuitable for her. It was for her to optimise her use of 
the GAVA benefits.
So, in my view, I dont think I can say that its more likely than not that Miss W didnt ask for 
the GAVA or consent to it or that it was unsuitable for her as I would have to, if I were to 
uphold her complaint on these points.
For completeness, I note that Miss W raised two other issues with Lloyds, firstly about the 
suitability of the account while she was ill, and secondly about the way Lloyds handled her 
complaint.
Im very sorry to hear that Miss W had a serious illness, but Lloyds couldnt downgrade or 
close her account without a written request from her to do so, and there is no record of such 
a request.
And complaint handling itself doesnt come under the jurisdiction of this service so were not 
able to investigate that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman