DRN-1983528
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the service Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) provided when she made 
claims against her Home Emergency policy.
What happened
Ms C had plumbing and drainage cover with Aviva. She made two separate claims - one for 
a leak at the back of her washing machine and one for her toilet. The repairs were done but 
Ms C was unhappy with the way Aviva handled her claims. In brief:
Ms C said there was confusion around appointments to repair her toilet;
she didnt think Aviva had called her when it said it had;
Aviva incorrectly recorded a repeat visit for her third claim as a fourth and final claim, 
and
Ms C says the engineers caused damage when fixing the leak at the back of the 
washing machine.
Aviva didnt think its engineers had caused damage while fixing the leak. But it agreed it 
shouldve handled Ms Cs claim better. It offered £100 as compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused but Ms C didnt think it was enough.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed that Aviva hadnt handled Ms Cs 
claim as well as it couldve done. But he didnt think Aviva had caused damage, so he 
thought the offer of £100 compensation was fair.
Ms C didnt agree. She restated her complaint and asked for an independent review. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Ms C will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Ms Cs complaint is about two claims under her policy and Ive dealt with them separately 
here.
Leak at the back of the washing machine
The following points are not disputed:
Ms Cs washing machine is inside a cupboard.
She signed a waiver for any necessary damage caused to gain access.
The engineer repaired the leak.
The cupboard door wouldnt close after the repair.
After the engineer repaired the leak, Ms C said he struggled to move the washing machine 
and kicked it. She also said he didnt check it was working until she suggested it. 
I understand Ms C thinks it shouldve been a two-person job, but I think its reasonable for 
Aviva to allocate resource as it thinks fit. And while she says the engineer wasnt going to 
test the machine until she suggested it, the fact is he did test it and the machine was working 
when he left. So I cant see that there has been any impact on Ms C in relation to these parts 
of her complaint.
I dont doubt that Ms C thinks the engineer kicked her machine. Aviva says the engineer 
wouldnt have done that. If the engineer was struggling to push the machine back into the 
cupboard, then I think its quite possible that he mightve pushed the machine with his foot to 
lend a little more weight to the movement. And I can see how Ms C would think he was 
kicking the machine. But Ive not seen any evidence that the machine was damaged so, on 
balance, I cant see that Ms C has suffered any financial loss in respect of this point.
Ive seen the photos of the cupboard door after the repair was done and it doesnt appear to 
close properly. Ms C thinks its Avivas fault. Aviva says its due to damage caused behind 
the machine by a long-term leak. Its not clear to me whether the ill-fitting door is due to 
Avivas work behind the machine or a long-term leak, but I dont think that matters. Aviva 
isnt responsible for any damage caused when gaining access to complete a repair  Ms C 
signed the waiver to agree to that. While she doesnt think its fair to sign a waiver before 
work is carried out, I dont agree. If the source of the leak is inaccessible without causing 
some damage, it wouldnt be fair to hold Aviva responsible. If Ms C had employed a plumber 
to do the same work, then its likely that the plumber wouldve caused the same damage and 
charged Ms C extra for the reinstatement. The policy she has with Aviva is for emergency 
repairs to prevent further damage, and I think it did what it shouldve done under the policy 
terms.
That wouldnt excuse Aviva for causing unnecessary damage.  The terms of the policy say 
Aviva isnt liable for any damage unless caused by negligent behaviour. I understand that Ms 
C thinks the engineer was negligent because she says he kicked the machine. However, Ive 
already explained that theres insufficient evidence to support that. 
Im satisfied that Aviva isnt responsible for fixing the ill-fitting door. 
Toilet flush repair
Ms C made two claims under her policy for a problem with her toilet, which Aviva repaired. 
The first claim is not in dispute. When she made the second claim which was for a broken 
flush, Ms C says Aviva didnt treat it as a priority. The following points are not disputed:
There was confusion around the appointment time and return calls;
Aviva incorrectly recorded a return visit for the second claim as a new claim, and 
Aviva shouldve handled the claim better.
Because of the confusion around appointment times, Ms C thinks Aviva didnt treat her claim 
as a priority. She had one toilet in her home, which wasnt working. She booked an 
appointment online, but Aviva didnt attend because it had no record of the appointment. Ms 
C called Aviva and it promised a call back. She didnt get the call and phoned again. Aviva 
said it had left messages for her, which Ms C says wasnt true. It promised another call back, 
and after Ms C missed the first call, an appointment was arranged for that day. Aviva 
repaired the toilet that evening. 
I can see that Aviva consistently logged the calls on the account notes stating that it left 
messages. Its not clear why Ms C didnt get them, but I think its more likely than not that the log notes are an accurate reflection of events. Thats because the log notes are recorded as 
the event happens and I think its unlikely that Aviva would log incorrect information on 
multiple occasions.
Ms C says Aviva didnt treat her claim as a priority. While I realise it was later in the evening 
when Aviva attended the appointment, the toilet was still repaired on the same day for which 
shed originally booked her appointment. I dont think its fair to conclude that Aviva didnt 
treat Ms Cs claim as a priority when it delivered a same-day service.
Aviva had to attend again to carry out further work on the toilet flush. It recorded the visit as 
a fourth and final claim on the policy, which it later agreed was incorrect. It shouldve been 
an extension to the earlier visit rather than a new claim. Aviva offered to cover the cost of 
any emergency work Ms C had done because of its error. I think that was fair. Ms C hasnt 
said she made any further claims, so it appears that she didnt experience any financial loss 
as a result of Avivas error. So, I dont think theres anything more Aviva needs to do about 
this matter.
Overall, I think Aviva carried out the repairs as it shouldve done, but I think it shouldve 
handled the claim better. It offered £100 in recognition of the shortfalls. Although Ms C 
declined the sum because she didnt think it was enough, I think its a fair offer in the 
circumstances. 
Ms C was also unhappy with the way Aviva dealt with a separate arrangement for a 
replacement radiator. The work was not covered under the policy so its not within my remit 
to consider. Ive mentioned it here for completeness, but I understand the matter was 
resolved anyway.
In summary, I think Aviva couldve handled Ms Cs claim better than it did, but I havent seen 
any evidence that would lead me to think it had damaged her home or caused any financial 
loss. So I think the offer of £100 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ms C should contact Aviva directly if she wishes to accept its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman