DRN-1825739
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limiteds decision to settle a third 
partys claim against her car insurance policy.
All reference to Calpe as the lead insurer includes its agents.
What happened
In February 2019 Calpe received a claim from a third party insurer for damage they said Mrs 
G had caused. They said somebody had witnessed Mrs Gs car reverse into their insureds 
car at a supermarket car park and drove off. The third party wasnt in the car which was 
parked at the time. 
The witness said the car was moving very slowly and the impact was light, but thought the 
driver would have been aware of it. When the third party returned to her car, the witness told 
her what she saw. The third party identified scratch damage to the rear of her car which she 
said wasnt there before. She made a claim through her insurer.
Mrs G told Calpe she didnt make contact with the vehicle, but she was in the car park that 
day. 
Calpe accepted fault for the incident on a without prejudice basis. Mrs Gs policy has a 
£3,000 excess. Calpe told Mrs G she owed it £1,130.09 in costs to settle the claim.
Mrs G was very unhappy about this. But Calpe said the engineer who inspected Mrs Gs car 
identified damage consistent with an impact. And because there was an independent 
witness, Calpe said its decision was correct. 
Mrs G remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She said shed contacted 
the supermarket to request CCTV footage. The supermarket checked and said it couldnt 
view a collision from the location of the camera.
In summary our investigator found the following:
Calpe had failed to contact the supermarket to request CCTV footage. Even 
though following Mrs Gs enquiries, there was insufficient evidence of the 
collision, he thought Calpe hadnt properly investigated the claim.
The engineer who inspected Mrs Gs vehicle focused on an area at the front 
of the car. But the witness said Mrs Gs car had reversed into the other car. 
So the engineer hadnt provided any meaningful comment or assessment on 
the correct area. The engineer suggested it should review photos of the other 
car to check for consistency with damage  as Mrs G said it was already on 
her car and not caused by the incident. But Calpe didnt follow this up. 
So the investigator recommended Calpe reconsider its decision about liability. He thought 
Calpe should contact the engineer who inspected Mrs Gs car and ask it to provide 
comments on the area the witness said was impacted. He said if the engineers follow up 
report was consistent with the independent witness, then he thought Calpes decision to 
accept liability for the incident would be fair. 
But he thought Calpe had caused distress and inconvenience to Mrs G by its handling of the 
claim. For this he recommended Calpe pay her £150 compensation. 
Calpe didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide. It hasnt provided any further 
comments. 
Mrs G accepted the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an 
insurer reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. Calpe has a very common 
term which says it can make a decision how best to settle a claim In Mrs Gs name. This 
means it might make a decision Mrs G doesnt agree with, but the policy allows it to do this. 
We dont disagree with this term in principle provided an insurer can show its treated its 
customer fairly when applying it. 
In this case, Im not satisfied that Calpe properly investigated the claim. Ill explain why. 
The witness reported that the third partys car was hit by a car with Mrs Gs description and 
registration while reversing. 
From their account I think its clear that the area of damage to Mrs Gs car for inspection 
would be to the rear. However, the engineer who inspected Mrs Gs car focused on damage 
to the front right bumper of her car. Its not clear as to what instruction the engineer was 
given by Calpe before the inspection.
Calpe said that the engineer also identified damage to the rear of Mrs Gs car. This is 
correct. But his comments are limited to: Owner advises damage to RHR bumper is old 
damage prior to current insurance policy being taken out. So I think is clear that the 
engineer didnt inspect the rear of the car in order to assess whether it was likely involved in 
a collision with the third party. This after all was the purpose of the inspection. 
However, the engineer underlined the following recommendation:
It would be our suggestion we inspect third party vehicle to assist with quantifying 
consistency.
Although Calpe received an engineers report from the third party, no photos of their car 
were provided or requested by Calpe in order to follow up on the engineers 
recommendation. So I dont think the engineers report  focusing on damage to the front of 
Mrs Gs car  was of value in determining liability for this incident.
Calpe said that even though it didnt ask the supermarket for CCTV footage, it didnt change 
the outcome as there wasnt any clear footage available. This is true. But Mrs G told Calpe 
she wasnt involved in a collision. And so as the insurer I think it should have promptly 
sought evidence to establish liability. Instead it was Mrs G who approached the supermarket 
and asked for evidence. 
So I agree with the investigators view and I dont think Calpe has been reasonable to Mrs G. 
I think it hasnt done enough to properly investigate the claim. So I think it should reconsider its decision about liability and contact the engineer to provide comments on the rear of Mrs 
Gs car. I think Calpe should pay Mrs G £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its handling of the claim has caused her. 
If an engineer concludes that the damage to the rear of Mrs Gs car is consistent with the 
damage claimed for by the third party, then in addition to the independent witness statement, 
I think it would be reasonable for Calpe to settle the claim as a fault claim. But in any event, 
the claim costs should be limited to reasonable third party costs and not include Calpes 
costs to investigate the claim, such as the engineers report. The costs of handling a claim is 
part and parcel of providing insurance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
to do the following:
Reconsider its liability decision for the claim made in February 2019 against Mrs 
Gs policy by obtaining a further comment from the engineer in relation to the 
damage to the rear of Mrs Gs car. 
Pay Mrs G £150 for the distress and inconvenience its poor handling of the claim 
caused her. 
Calpe Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Calpe Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman