DRN-3749460
The complaint
Ms K complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited unfairly declined cover for 
a claim she made and cancelled her car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K took out a car insurance policy with Watford Insurance through a price comparison site. 
When her car was damaged in a collision, she tried to make a claim.
Watford Insurance said shed answered the question it asked about the value of the car 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to decline cover for the claim and cancel the policy.
Ms K brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation, but didnt think this was deliberate or 
reckless. He believed it was careless.
Our investigator thought Watford Insurance should reinstate the policy and consider Ms Ks 
claim. If it settled the claim, it should do so proportionately. He also said Watford Insurance 
should remove references to the policy having been voided from databases, and treated as if 
Ms K had cancelled it. He also said Watford Insurance should pay £200 compensation.
Watford Insurance didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It maintains the error made by Ms K should be considered as reckless, which 
would allow it to void the policy and retain the premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Watford Insurance thinks Ms K failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she entered details on the price comparison website about her car. 
Specifically, it says she was asked the value of her car, and said it was £3,000 which is 
significantly less than the actual value.
The fact that Ms K gave a significantly lower value for the car than it was actually worth isnt 
disputed by Ms K. She says (and Watford Insurance accepts) that she intended to enter 
£30,000 when responding to the question, but mis-typed, omitting a zero, meaning she 
entered £3,000. 
I accept that Ms K had a duty to take reasonable care when she completed these questions, 
and by mis-typing this and not realising her error before taking out the policy, she didnt take 
reasonable care.
Watford Insurance has provided evidence which shows that if Ms K had correctly declared 
the value of the car when she took out the policy, the premium would have been significantly 
higher  it would have been over £1,700 more than she paid. 
This means Im satisfied Ms Ks misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Watford Insurance has said Ms Ks misrepresentation was reckless because she had a duty 
to ensure she correctly entered the value of the car on the price comparison site, and the 
importance of giving accurate information was clear when completing these details. It said it 
was necessary for her to thoroughly double check and that the omission of a zero is 
noticeably different.
CIDRA says that a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer knew that it 
was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue and misleading, and 
knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, or 
did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer. CIDRA also says an insurer has to 
show a qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless. If it isnt deliberate or reckless, 
the misrepresentation will be careless.
Watford Insurances view would therefore seem to be that Ms K didnt care whether or not 
she provided the incorrect value of the car.
I dont agree that Ms Ks misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. Theres no dispute 
that the incorrect value was entered, and not amended. That doesnt mean that Ms K didnt 
care. This wasnt a binary yes/no question, but one where Ms K typed in a value, omitting a 
zero.
Watford Insurance hasnt demonstrated Ms Ks error amounts to her not caring about 
whether the answer was correct or not. The need to double check her responses, and not 
noticing the error doesnt amount to a deliberate or reckless act either. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that an error of this nature, the omission of a zero, could amount to a deliberate or 
reckless misrepresentation. 
Therefore, as Im satisfied Ms Ks misrepresentation was careless not reckless or deliberate, 
I dont think Watford Insurance is acting fairly by voiding her policy and not paying the claim. 
CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases. If a 
misrepresentation isnt deliberate or reckless then CIDRA says its careless. Ive looked at 
the actions CIDRA says Watford Insurance can take in the event of a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation being made. CIDRA says that where the insurer would have offered the 
policy, but on different terms, a claim can be settled proportionately. Theres no right of the 
insurer to void or cancel a policy if the insurer would have offered the policy on different 
terms.Watford Insurance has demonstrated that it would have offered the policy in different terms if 
the car value had been declared correctly  by charging a higher premium. This means 
Watford Insurance cant fairly void Ms Ks insurance for reckless misrepresentation. It needs 
to reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim in accordance with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions. In the event that it makes a settlement, this would be on a 
proportionate basis, taking into account what the correct premium would have been if the 
misrepresentation hadnt occurred and the amount actually paid.
From the evidence available to me, Watford Insurance cancelled the policy, giving seven 
days notice of its intention to do so. That isnt the normal process to be followed where an 
insurer considers a misrepresentation to be reckless or deliberate. In those cases, wed 
expect to see an insurer avoid the policy back to inception, and retain the premium paid, 
which is the redress available under CIDRA. However, I note that the exact date of 
cancellation isnt material to my consideration of this complaint. 
I understand Ms Ks paid for the repairs to her car herself after Watford Insurance 
unreasonably declined cover and voided the policy. Any settlement would need to be based 
on the amount she paid, as opposed to any beneficial rates Watford Insurance would receive 
from repairers if it had covered the repairs originally. It should also pay 8% simple interest on 
any settlement amount from the date Ms K paid the relevant costs to the date of settlement.
Watford Insurance should remove any reference to the voiding of the policy from its systems 
and databases shared with other insurers. It should provide a letter to Ms K to confirm this 
has been done which can be provided to her new insurer so they may potentially recalculate 
her premium based on this.
Watford Insurance should also pay £200 as compensation to Ms K to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience caused to her. It unreasonably cancelled her policy. This meant she had 
to arrange alternative insurance as a matter of urgency. She also had to arrange for her car 
to be repaired without the assistance of her insurer. These things wouldnt have happened if 
the misrepresentation had been correctly considered careless. Shes also been unfairly told 
by Watford Insurance that her inadvertent error in declaring the value of the car was 
reckless. Im satisfied that £200 compensation adequately recognises the level of distress 
and inconvenience caused to her.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited must:
Reinstate Ms Ks policy.
Reconsider the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
In the event that it makes a settlement, it may do so on a proportionate basis. 
Pay 8% simple interest on any settlement amount from the date of Ms Ks payment of 
those costs to the date of settlement.
Remove any reference to the policy having been voided from systems and 
databases.
Provide a letter to Ms K confirming that the policy voidance has been removed.
Pay £200 compensation. Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited must pay this 
amount within 28 days of us telling it that Ms K accepts this decision. If it doesnt, 
then it must pay 8% simple interest on this amount from that date to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman