DRN-2588446
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited caused delays during the settlement of his
claim for subsidence damage and that it refused to provide cover for loss of rent, which
resulted in his property being repossessed.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021 explaining that I wasnt 
intending to uphold it. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
There have been several businesses involved in this complaint who acted on behalf 
of Aviva. For ease of reference, Ill refer only to Aviva by name in this decision, even 
when referring to the actions of its agents.
Mr J has complained about delays caused by Aviva during the settlement of his claim 
for subsidence damage at a property he owned  which he originally made in 2016. 
Some of the damage was deemed to be as a result of subsidence caused by water 
from a damaged drain. Aviva accepted the claim and repaired the damaged drain, 
but there was a dispute over the repairs to the superstructure (house). 
Our service has previously answered a complaint about the time taken between the 
claim being made and April 2018. This complaint also addressed whether some of 
the damage to the property was historic and Mr Js concerns that his property was 
suffering from ongoing subsidence movement. 
So, in this complaint, Ill only be considering events that took place from April 2018 
onwards. This means the only issues Ill be addressing as part of this complaint are 
whether Aviva caused delays after April 2018, and whether its decision not to provide 
cover for loss of rent is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In April 2018 Mr J supplied Aviva with an engineers report he commissioned  which 
suggested his property may still be moving and that monitoring may be required. 
Aviva considered this report, but it didnt change its view that the property was now 
stable. This was because Mr Js engineer seemed unaware that Aviva had already 
been monitoring the property and that its results showed there was no significant 
ongoing movement.
Following this, Mr J accepted Avivas scope of works, for the superstructure repairs, 
and it was agreed the necessary works would be completed by 10 August 2018. But 
on 3 August 2018 a further potential leak was discovered by the contractors.
Avivas engineer felt this leak was likely due to a drain which was the responsibility of 
the local water authority. Aviva said it would need to inspect and assess any new 
damage. It said a new claim may need to be raised for an escape of water, rather 
than this issue forming part of the ongoing claim for subsidence.
Aviva spent time attempting to obtain photos of the new damage to assess the claim. 
But due to communication issues, with both its contractor and Mr J, a site visit didnt 
take place until April 2019  following which, a drainage survey was also carried out. 
This identified that the drain which was damaged was one owned by the local water 
authority. Aviva wrote to the water authority in July 2019 asking it to repair the 
damaged drain within one month. But it wasnt until November 2019 that the water 
authority responded and advised the manhole was clear and that there were no 
issues with the drain.
Mr J has complained that Aviva caused delays. Hes also unhappy that it didnt agree 
to cover his claim for loss of rent. Mr J says that because of these issues, he was 
unable to meet his mortgage repayments and so his property was repossessed in 
September 2019.
Aviva says the issues being caused by the water authority drain needed to be 
addressed before it could complete the insured works. It says it couldnt carry out any 
works to the drain and that Mr J could also have chased the water authority for a 
speedier resolution. It also says it was never made aware that Mr Js property was at 
risk of repossession.
Aviva says it only discovered that Mr J had been renting his property, for around four 
to five years, in April 2017. When it was made aware of this, Aviva amended Mr Js 
policy and continued to cover the subsidence claim. But it didnt agree to cover a 
claim for loss of rent.
Initially it says this was because it wasnt aware the property was being rented, but it 
has since clarified that it doesnt agree the property couldnt be lived in as a result of 
the claim.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Js complaint. She didnt think it should be 
upheld. She didnt think it was unfair for Aviva to refuse to cover loss of rent because 
it hadnt been made aware that the property was rented. She also thought Aviva had 
done all it could to move the claim forward. She didnt think Aviva was responsible for 
any of the delays.
Mr J didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr J has been through a very difficult time, and I sympathise. But what I 
need to decide is whether any of the issues hes experienced are as a result of 
something Aviva did wrong.
Loss of rent
Mr J has complained that because of the subsidence damage to his property he lost 
a tenant and was unable to place a new one. Due to this he wants to claim for loss of 
rent under the policy.As I understand it, Aviva were made aware that the property was being rented in 
April 2017. At this stage Aviva says it amended Mr Js policy to reflect this change.
Mr Js policy included cover for loss of rent. This is explained in the policy wording:
Loss of rent and the cost of alternative accommodation
If we have accepted a claim for damage to the home and the damage means 
your home cant be lived in, we will pay:
a. ground rent you still have to pay;
b. rent payable to you, or (if not otherwise insured) reasonable additional 
accommodation expenses your tenant has to pay;
c. any reasonable additional accommodation expenses for you and your 
domestic animals up to the limit shown on your schedule, until the home is 
ready to live in.
Based on the above, Mr J would be covered for loss of rent, payable to him, if his 
property couldnt be lived in due to the damage caused by the ongoing claim. But I 
should point out that damage making the property an unattractive prospect for 
tenants, or potential tenants, does not necessarily mean that the property is 
uninhabitable (cant be lived in). 
Between May 2017 and April 2018 Mr J had a tenant in the property. So, its clear 
that the property was able to be lived in during this period. Mr J says the reason this 
tenant vacated the property was because of its condition and hes provided a 
statement from her to support this. But in the statement, the tenant also says she 
stayed in the property, longer than she wished to, because she was waiting to be 
able to move into a new property she had purchased. This suggests to me that the 
condition of the property was not the primary reason she moved out  rather it was 
the fact that she had bought a new property to move into.
Mr J has also said that, due to the condition of the property, he gave this tenant a 
discount of £50 per month on her rent, for the above time period, which he would like 
Aviva to cover. But I havent seen any evidence, such as a tenancy agreement, 
covering any other period of tenancy or showing any other amount of rent being 
agreed or paid. Without this evidence, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect 
Aviva to cover this alleged loss of rent. And even if I had that evidence, it seems that 
the property was able to be lived in at this time, meaning the policy cover for loss of 
rent would not apply anyway.
Ive considered what both sides have said about the condition of the property 
between April 2018 and September 2019  when it was repossessed. Ive also 
reviewed the structural engineers report commissioned by Mr J  which was based 
on a site visit that took place on 29 March 2018. From what Ive seen, there was 
clearly significant cracking to the property, but I dont think the property could be said 
to be uninhabitable. I say this because the evidence doesnt suggest the property 
was unsafe or without the use of its key facilities or living spaces. 
Mr J says that once Avivas contractors started the superstructure works, in 
July 2018, the property became uninhabitable due to the ongoing works. He says 
that while the works were ongoing, the kitchen and bathroom couldnt be used and 
that, together with the dust generated by the works and the storage of the building 
materials at the property, meant it wouldnt be reasonable to expect a tenant to live 
there.Ive thought carefully about Mr Js arguments here. But from what Ive seen, the 
property had been unoccupied for several months before the commencement of the 
superstructure repair works. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr J attempted 
to place any new tenants, after April 2018, or that he was unable to do so because of 
the condition of the property. So even if I were to accept that the property became 
uninhabitable at this time, I dont think I could reasonably conclude that Mr J lost out 
on rent payable to him because of these works  a requirement of the loss of rent 
cover under the policy.
In any case, I dont think the property was likely uninhabitable at this time either. I say 
this because I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the condition of the 
property meant that the key facilities or living spaces couldnt be used, or that the 
superstructure repairs meant the property wouldnt be safe to live in. On the contrary, 
the evidence Ive seen suggests that most of the interior work to be completed was 
mainly decorative in nature, such as filling or plastering the cracks. Ive also seen that 
site materials, waste and rubbish were to be delivered/collected on a daily basis. So, 
it doesnt seem likely that there would have been a need for a tenant to move out  
should there have been one at the time. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the claim 
related damage, or subsequent repairs, meant the property couldnt be lived in. So, 
even if Mr J had shown that he lost out on rent  which I dont think he has  I dont 
think Aviva would be required to cover it under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
It follows that I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect Aviva to make any 
payments under the loss of rent cover.
Delays
Mr J has also complained that Aviva caused delays in settling his claim. He says 
these delays, and its refusal to cover loss of rent, contributed toward his property 
being repossessed by the bank. 
From what Ive seen, the largest periods of delay were between August 2018 to 
February 2019 and August 2019 to November 2019. 
In July 2018 Mr J reported further water damage to his property. Mr J told Avivas 
contractor to stop works as he believed it was unsafe for them to carry on. This was 
reported to the loss adjuster. There then followed a significant period of time where 
the loss adjuster was attempting to obtain photos of the alleged damage from either 
the contractor or Mr J. Notes from time suggest the loss adjuster suspected that the 
issue was related to a drainage issue that was likely the responsibility of the water 
authority. 
Between August 2018 and February 2019, the loss adjuster was making regular 
attempts to contact both its contractor and Mr J  but it wasnt successful. The loss 
adjuster doesnt appear to have received a response to its correspondence/calls until 
February 2019 when Mr J advised he had raised a complaint with our service. They 
spoke again in March 2019 and a site visit was requested, which took place in April 
2019. From what Ive seen, I think the delay during this period can be attributed to both 
sides. I agree that the lack of response from the contractor was a contributory factor. 
And as the contractor was an agent of Aviva, I think its part of the responsibility rests 
with Aviva. But I cant ignore that it was Mr J who instructed the contractor to stop the 
works  not Aviva. Nor that Mr J was also uncontactable during this period. Had 
Aviva been able to reach Mr J it would have been able to progress the claim much 
sooner than it did. So, in these particular circumstances, Im not intending to award 
any compensation for these delays as I dont believe Aviva is any more responsible 
for them than Mr J is.
Once contact was made with Mr J, a site visit was quickly arranged, followed by 
some drainage investigations. This showed that the offending drain was one owned 
by the local water authority. Aviva wrote to the water authority on 29 July 2019 asking 
it to address the issues within one month. This is what I would expect it to do 
because Aviva would not be authorised to carry out any repairs to that drain  or 
responsible for doing so. I also dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to hold off 
on the repairs to Mr Js home until it had confirmation that the water authority issue 
was resolved. I say this because it needed to deliver a lasting and effective repair  
which it would likely be unable to do until the cause of further movement/damage had 
been rectified.
It doesnt appear that Aviva took steps to chase the water authority for a response 
once the deadline it gave to repair the damage had passed. And I also havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr J chased the water authority either.
Ive thought carefully about this issue, and I do think it would have been reasonable 
for Aviva to have chased the water authority for confirmation that the work had been 
completed sooner than it did  so that it could recommence the claim related repairs. 
But I also need to consider whether this would likely have made any difference to the 
events that followed. And taking everything into account, I dont think it would have 
done. Ill explain why.
I fully appreciate that Mr Js property was repossessed when he was unable to meet 
his mortgage payments. But this seems to be more as a result of Avivas decision not 
to cover loss of rent, which Ive already decided was reasonable in the 
circumstances, rather than because of delays to the repairs  which were ultimately 
caused by the water authority. I also havent seen any evidence that Mr J made 
Aviva aware that his property was at risk of repossession. 
Had Mr J done so, it may have been reasonable for Aviva to increase its efforts to get 
a response from the water authority. Although I would reiterate that Mr J doesnt 
seem to have been chasing the water authority either. And even if either side had 
done so, I think its unlikely this would have made a difference. I say this because 
Aviva initially gave the water authority until the end of August 2019 to put things right, 
and from what Ive seen, the property was repossessed in September 2019. So, even 
if Aviva had chased the water authority in early September 2019, I think its more 
likely than not that it wouldnt have made any difference to the repossession process.
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Aviva is responsible for the unfortunate 
difficulties Mr J has experienced. Aviva acted in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, in declining Mr Js claim for loss of rent. And I dont think Aviva was 
responsible for any unreasonable delays that led to Mr J suffering a loss, in the 
course of settling his claim. So, Im not currently minded to direct Aviva to do 
anything further in relation to this complaint.I asked both sides to send me any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision.
Mr J responded and gave several reasons why he disagreed with my provisional findings. To 
summarise, he said:
My view of whether the property was uninhabitable or not is subjective. He feels the 
photos provided support that the property was uninhabitable.
Avivas contractor were the ones who decided to stop work  not him.
Ive focused on his tenants comments about moving to a new house instead of 
everything she said about the deteriorating condition of the property.
Aviva had nothing to add in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the additional comments and evidence provided in response to 
my provisional decision. Having done so, my decision remains unchanged. Ill explain why in 
more detail below.
Mr J has stated that he didnt direct Avivas contractor to stop works following the discovery 
of the new leak. He says the contractor took that decision himself.
In my view, whether it was Mr Js or the contractors decision to stop works isnt material to 
the outcome of this complaint. But for completeness, the reason I said it was Mr J in my 
provisional decision was based on two emails from August 2018; one sent by Mr J to the 
loss adjuster explaining that hed asked the contractor to stop works, and the other an 
internal email from the loss adjuster which says Mr J had said the works must stop.
Aside from the above, neither side have made any further comment regarding my provisional 
findings on the subject of delays. So, in the absence of new evidence or arguments on this 
point, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision  and for the 
same reasons.
In terms of the loss of rent, I acknowledge Mr J feels strongly that his property was rendered 
uninhabitable, both by the initial subsidence and by the subsequent superstructure works. 
Ive thought carefully about all the photos and testimony provided  including everything that 
was said by Mr Js previous tenant. But having done so, I dont agree that the property 
couldnt be lived in. I say this because the evidence suggests that the key facilities and living 
spaces of the property  bedroom, bathroom and kitchen  were able to be used, and 
because none of the expert evidence suggests the property was unsafe. 
I fully appreciate that the condition of the property would likely have made it unattractive to 
any potential tenants. But this doesnt mean that it couldnt be lived in. And this is a 
requirement of the policy before any loss of rent would be covered. Also, as I highlighted in my provisional decision, I havent seen any evidence to support that 
Mr J attempted to place any new tenants after April 2018. And the superstructure works 
didnt commence until July 2018. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that 
Mr J lost out on rent payable to him (another requirement of the policy), because of the 
initial subsidence claim or the subsequent repairs.
Taking all the evidence into account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect 
Aviva to make any payments under the loss of rent cover.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Js 
complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman