DRN-3178411
The complaint
Ms A complains that Santander UK Plc restricted access to her bank account for an 
unreasonable length of time after they stopped a transaction from being made. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below:
Santander said it stopped Ms As payment as it was concerned that it may not have 
been a legitimate transaction. The bank is obliged to look into any payments that flag 
as suspicious, as it is under a legal obligation to monitor customer accounts and 
carry out due diligence checks in order to prevent money laundering and other types 
of financial crime. 
I appreciate that Ms As payment was legitimate and did not fall into either of these 
categories, which she was subsequently able to prove to Santander. But a large 
payment had been credited to Ms As account, which was subsequently transferred 
out of it again to a different payee. This can often prompt a bank to look into the 
nature of the payment and its source, as it can sometimes be indicative of financial 
crime or the account holder being used as a money mule, for example. So, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Santander to want to take a closer look at the 
circumstances of how it was being made and to restrict access to the account while it 
carried out an investigation. 
However, any investigations such as this that are carried out by a bank should be 
done within a reasonable amount of time and shouldnt ultimately result in financial 
hardship on the customer. I can see that Ms A went into branch on 15 May 2020, 
which was 9 days after her accounts had been blocked. But it then took Santander 
another 12 days to allow her access again. 
Santander has acknowledged that it took longer than it should have done to 
investigate the payment and remove the block from Ms As account, and it has 
apologised for the time it took to do this. Santander also offered £500 compensation, 
which I understand Ms A may not feel is commensurate to the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her. So Ive considered whether the compensation paid by 
Santander is fair in the circumstances, or whether any further award is warranted.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for 
distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a 
proportionate reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have 
had. And in order to award further compensation to Ms A, I would have to be satisfied 
that the wrongful actions of Santander have had a significantly greater impact than 
just moderate inconvenience or upset, which Im not persuaded it has in these 
circumstances.
Ms A says she was unable to access any money to buy food for her family, and also 
that she was unable to pay for building work that had been completed on her roof 
and kitchen. And I appreciate that this would have been upsetting and frustrating to 
Ms A and her family. But I havent seen anything to suggest that she wouldnt have 
been able to borrow funds or loan money temporarily from elsewhere while the issue 
with her Santander account was ongoing, in order to mitigate the impact of 
Santanders delay. Indeed, the costs for any such emergency borrowing would have 
also been a recoverable head of damages in this instance. 
In summary, I appreciate that Santanders delay had a detrimental impact. But overall, I dont 
consider this to warrant any further compensation at a higher level. I can see that they have 
sought to make things right by apologising to Ms A for the poor service she received, and 
that they also sent her flowers on top of the compensation offered by way of apology for the 
upset caused. So, for the delay in reinstating Ms As access to her account. I consider the 
compensation offered and paid by Santander to be fair in the circumstances.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Ms A, but I wont be asking Santander to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman