DRN-2451170
The complaint
Mr J, represented by a third party, complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender 
was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Initially it was thought that Mr J was provided with seven loans by Mr Lender and a view was 
issued on that basis. However, after further investigation it was established that Mr J 
received ten loans from Mr Lender between September 2011 and February 2015. These 
loans are listed in the table below.
Loan Date Repaid Amount (£)
1 Sep-11 Dec-11 300
2 Mar-12 Mar-12 150
3 Oct-12 Oct-12 150
4 May-14 Jun-14 100
5 Jul-14 Jul-14 300
6 Jul-14 Aug-14 750
7 Sep-14 Sep-14 700
8 Oct-14 Nov-14 700
9 Jan-15 Feb-15 500
10 Feb-15 Nov-16 900
Mr J says that he was an easy target for these loans which had very high interest rates 
meaning he was only able to repay the interest and not the loan itself.
Mr Lender says that it carried out checks to ensure the affordability of the loans. Based on 
the initial view (assessing seven loans) it offered to refund the interest and charges on loans 
six and seven. This wasnt accepted by Mr J. 
Our adjudicator noted that the first three loans were provided more than six years before 
Mr J raised his complaint however she didnt find any evidence to say that Mr J should have 
reasonably known he had cause to complain more than three years before he did. 
Therefore, she included all the loans in the assessment.
Having looked through the details of the loans, our adjudicator didnt think there was enough 
evidence to say that loans one to five shouldnt have been provided however she thought 
loans six to ten shouldnt have been lent. She said that the repayments for loan six 
represented a significant portion of Mr Js income and so she thought it was unlikely this loan 
was sustainably affordable. By loan nine our adjudicator thought that Mr Js overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested he had become persistently reliant on short-term loans.
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view. It said although it had been said the loan 
repayments on loan six took a significant portion of Mr Js income, it carried out checks to 
establish Mr Js disposable income and to ensure the repayments were affordable. It said 
that at loan eight, the loan amount was the same as the previous loan which didnt suggest 
Mr J was persistently reliant on its product. It noted the gap between loans eight and nine 
and said this combined with the lower loan amount didnt support the suggestion of Mr J 
being reliant on the loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr J could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
The early loans in this case were provided before CONC. At that time the relevant guidance 
was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this also set out the need to make a 
reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This refers to issues such as being able to the make the repayments 
without undue difficulties throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise security or assets. It then further sets out that without undue difficulty means without having 
to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
As our adjudicator explained we can consider complaints where the action complained about 
happened more than six years prior to the complaint if we find that the complainant 
complained within three years of becoming reasonably aware of their cause for complaint. In 
this case I have nothing to suggest Mr J was aware of his cause for complaint more than 
three years prior to his raising his complaint about the loans Mr Lender provide. So I have 
considered all the loans in this decision.
Mr Js first loan was for £300. He opted to use the interest only service and the highest 
repayment amount was just under £400. At the time, Mr Js monthly net income was 
recorded as around £1,750. As this was Mr Js first loan with Mr Lender I find the checks 
were reasonable. As the loan appeared affordable based on the checks I do not find I can 
say it was unreasonable this loan was provided.
Loan two was for a lower amount, £150 and there was a short break between Mr J repaying 
loan one and him taking out loan two. As this was still early in the lending relationship with 
Mr J and the previous loan had been repaid I do not find it unreasonable that Mr Lender 
provided this loan.
There was then a break of over six months between loan two being repaid and loan three 
being provided. I find that this was enough to suggest there was a break in the lending chain 
and so I have considered the third loan as the first in a new lending chain. This loan was for 
£150 and based on Mr Js reported income and the repayment amount I do not find it 
unreasonable this loan was provided.
There was then a break of a round a year and a half between Mr J repaying the third loan 
and receiving the fourth loan. I think this break was enough to say that loan four started a 
new lending chain. 
Loans four and five were for £100 and £300 respectively. Before these loans were provided 
Mr Lender gathered information about Mr Js monthly income and expenses. I find these 
checks were reasonable. Based on Mr Js disposable income and the repayment due under 
the loans I do not find I can say that Mr Lender was wrong to provide loans four and five.
Loan six was for a much higher amount (£750). It was repayable in a single instalment with 
the repayment amount of £975. This loan was taken out within a week of Mr J repaying the 
previous loan. At this time, I think that Mr Lender should have been concerned that Mr J was 
borrowing money that he may not be able to sustainably afford. I note Mr Lenders 
comments about it calculating Mr Js disposable income and based on this the loan being 
affordable. But I can see from the information gathered that Mr Js reported expenses had 
reduced by around £180 from the amount he had recorded for the two previous loans (taken 
out in the previous two months). His expenses numbers were also quite low and I would 
have expected further checks to take place. The repayment accounted for a significant 
amount of Mr Js monthly income and I do not think that Mr Lender should have considered 
this loan sustainably affordable. 
Loans seven and eight were both for £700 and each taken out a week after the previous 
loan was repaid. I again find that these loans raise concerns about the sustainability of 
Mr Js borrowing. By loan nine I agree with our adjudicator that a pattern of borrowing had emerged. This was 
Mr Js sixth loan in under eight months. I note the comment about the break of around a 
month and a half between loans eight and nine but given Mr Js history of borrowing by this 
time, I do not find that this break was substantial enough to suggest that his circumstances 
had changed in any significant way. Overall the amount he was borrowing wasnt showing a 
pattern of reducing and instead was, in general, increasing. Mr J was having to consistently 
take out high interest, short-term lending over a sustained period and the indebtedness 
caused by this type of borrowing was harmful, in my view. Loan ten was for £900 and taken 
out as soon as the previous loan was repaid further supporting the suggestion that Mr J was 
persistently reliant on the borrowing.
Given the above I think that that loans six to ten shouldnt have been provided.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr J from loan six, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr J may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Therefore, to put things right Mr Lender should:
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans six to ten;
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date he originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled;
C) pay Mr J the total of A plus B.
D) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file in relation to loans six 
to eight. The overall pattern of Mr Js borrowing for loans nine and ten means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so these should be removed entirely 
from Mr Js credit file. * HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender to take off tax 
from this interest. Mr Lender must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans six to ten inclusive. PDL 
Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should take the actions set out above in resolution of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman