DRN-3261143
The complaint
Miss B complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans provided lending 
to her which was unaffordable and irresponsible.  
 
What happened
Miss B borrowed £4500 from Likely Loans in June 2019. It was payable over 60 months at 
£115.06 per month. 
Miss B says that Likely Loans didnt undertake any basic affordability checks when they 
gave her the loan, and if they had done, the bank statements would have shown a lot of 
gambling transactions. She thinks this would have affected their decision to give her the 
loan. 
Miss B says she is struggling to make the repayments and has health problems as a result 
of the stress. 
Likely Loans issued their final response on 25 May 2021. They didnt uphold Miss Bs 
complaint about the lending decision. They said that when the loan application was 
completed, they undertook a standard credit assessment which included looking at Miss Bs 
income and taking into account any financial commitments. They reviewed her credit report, 
insolvency and delinquency records, and county court judgements. They dont routinely 
request bank statements and payslips or income verification as the loans they provide are 
low value. They thought this was proportionate for the low value of the loan given. 
Miss B was unhappy with this and she brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. He thought that the checks that Likely 
Loans undertook to assess creditworthiness and affordability were fair and proportionate. 
Miss B has asked for an ombudsmans decision as so it has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
This was a high interest loan, and in cases like this I have to look at what checks the bank 
carried out when it made the decision to approve the lending, and consider whether those 
checks were proportionate and in accordance with the Consumer Credit sourcebook 
(CONC) 5.2. That involves looking at what information was available to the lender at the 
time, and whether based on the information, they should have done further checks to help 
them understand if the lending was sustainable.  
Likely Loans have said that they looked at Miss Bs credit report and the information that she 
declared on her application to establish if the lending was affordable. They have sent us the 
information that Miss B provided in her application. It shows she declared that she was a 
student with income of £25000 per annum and declared she was living with her parents. The 
loan was to consolidate debts.
They verified her income through Current Account Turnover  a system by which banks and 
building societies can share current account credit and debit data to validate income and so 
there was no need to see a payslip.  They then deducted living costs, which they estimated 
using the Office of National Statistics information. 
The credit file they used showed that Miss B had £1700 of active debt and £745 defaulted 
debt. The active debt payments were being met and within credit limits, and the last default 
was from 53 months before the application. On that basis there was disposable income of 
£990.94 per month, meaning that a loan repayment of £115.06 per month would have been 
affordable.   
I have seen the information that Likely Loans used, and I am satisfied that there was nothing 
in that information to alert them that the loan may not be affordable, and so there would have 
been no reason for them to undertake any further checks. 
Whilst I appreciate that the bank statements may have shown the gambling issue that Miss 
B has now disclosed, there was no reason for Likely Loans to have requested them in this 
situation. 
I cant see anything else in the application which would have alerted Likely Loans to the 
possibility of a gambling problem. Had there been anything, they would have had an 
obligation to treat Miss B as a vulnerable customer, but unfortunately there was no evidence 
in the information considered by Likely Loans to suggest that might be the case. 
I am sorry that Miss B is now struggling financially and mentally, and I understand that the 
pressure of paying the loan will impact on this. However, I am pleased to see that Likely 
Loans have offered the option of discussing an affordable payment plan and other solutions 
and provided signposting to debt advice services. 
However, at the time the loan was approved, the checks undertaken were proportionate and 
so I dont find that Likely Loans have done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as 
Likely Loans do not need to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman