DRN-1374129
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains that she had no contact about her debt from Paragon Bank Plc for many 
years, although she was still paying. She said if Paragon had been in touch, she wouldve 
acted to reduce the interest she was paying.
What happened
Mrs W complained to Paragon about how it had managed her account. Paragon said the 
account had since been sold, but it looked at what it had done when it managed the debt. 
Paragon said it didnt have the correct address for Mrs W. She last contacted it in 2006. 
Paragon now knows that she had moved house by then, but it said that shed never told it 
about this. She used her previous address to clear security in 2006. 
Paragon said its terms make clear that Mrs W has to tell Paragon if she moves, but she 
hadnt done that until May 2019. 
Paragon said it doesnt usually try to trace customers unless payments stop. But it felt it 
shouldve tried to trace Mrs W in 2016, when some post sent to her old address was 
returned. It apologised for that. And it apologised for not having tried to contact her to 
discuss her debt between taking over her account in 1999 and selling the debt in 2018. But 
aside from that, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Paragons terms and 
conditions make clear that its Mrs Ws responsibility to keep her address updated with 
Paragon. And she hadnt done that. It had accepted when post was returned in 2016 that it 
shouldve tried to trace Mrs W, and apologised for that. 
Our investigator said Mrs W knew she still owed Paragon money. A standing order 
continued to make monthly payments. Paragon had assisted Mrs W when she was in 
financial difficulties. Our investigator said Paragon didnt also need to contact her after this, 
to see if she could pay more. He didnt think Paragon needed to do more than it had done.
Mrs W wanted her case to be considered by an ombudsman. She thought she wouldve told 
Paragon her new address when she spoke to it in 2006. And she said selling her debt when 
it was almost paid didnt seem like a business doing the right thing by a customer. 
Mrs W found a letter from April 1998, which said that the level of interest on her account was 
under review, and provided she maintained her payments it might be suspended or reduced. 
She sent us a copy. This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same overall conclusion 
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Our investigator has set out that it was Mrs Ws responsibility to give Paragon her new 
address. Paragon said she didnt do this, and when she spoke to Paragon in 2006, she 
confirmed her address as her old address, when shed already moved. Theres nothing in 
the notes Paragon made at the time to suggest to me that she gave Paragon her new 
address. I dont think its likely that she did that.
I also note that, although Mrs W was paying towards her debt by standing order each month, 
she didn't contact Paragon again until very recently. So, although she wasnt receiving any 
information from Paragon, to tell her how this debt was reducing or what rate of interest she 
was paying, she didnt contact Paragon for many years to ask why not.  
I know Paragon apologised for not tracing Mrs W in 2016, or making additional efforts to 
contact her to check the position of its agreement with her. But it remains Mrs Ws 
responsibility to keep her address details up to date with Paragon. And I think that the key 
reason why Mrs W went for so long without any information on her debt, is because she 
didnt do that. 
Mrs W also questioned why Paragon sold her debt, when it was closer to being paid off. 
Paragon said that was just a business decision. I can see from the notes that Paragon made 
at the time that the formalities for selling a loan appear to have been complied with. As 
Paragon still didnt have Mrs Ws updated address at the time, she wouldnt have received 
this correspondence. But I havent seen anything to suggest to me that Paragon did anything 
wrong when it sold Mrs Ws debt to another lender.
Ive listened to the call that Mrs W had with Paragon on this complaint. And I think Paragon 
would probably have agreed to make a small payment of compensation to Mrs P to resolve 
the complaint then, if shed indicated that she would be happy with that. But that doesnt 
mean that I should award compensation in this case. If I dont think Paragon has caused 
what went wrong here, then it wouldnt be a fair and reasonable outcome for me to ask 
Paragon to pay Mrs P compensation. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Paragon to do more than its done already.
I know Mrs W will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman