DRN-3633050
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Starling Bank Limiteds handling of his current account. 
What happened
Mr C opened a sole account with Starling on 4 April 2022. 
On Saturday 9 April 2022 Mr C received two payments into this account  one from his 
mother for £10, paid in at 12:22 and one from a friend for £1,500 paid in at 14:50. 
Starlings systems triggered an alert on Mr Cs account following these two payments as the 
beneficiary name given for each of these payments did not match the name on Mr Cs 
account. 
Mr C had attempted to use his card at 15:12 on 9 April 2022 and after the payment was 
declined he contacted Starling. 
At 15:21 through the online chat, Starling explained to Mr C their systems had brought his 
account to their attention and so it was temporarily restricted. They also asked Mr C some 
questions about the £1,500 transaction. At this time Starling explained that once they had all 
the information the relevant team would complete a review of what had happened. It was 
also highlighted to Mr C that it would not be possible to speed up the review. 
At 15:23 Mr C explained the details of the payment. And Starling then questioned the earlier 
payment from Mr Cs mother  which he also provided the answers to. 
Starling didnt ask Mr C anything else at this time and Mr C continued to message Starling 
on the online chat for a response. 
At 17:03 Starling responded to Mr C via the online chat and explained the account had been 
restricted due to two payments coming into the account in different names  and they let    
Mr C know the names that had been used. Starling then asked Mr C to provide any evidence 
to support what hed said about receiving the £1,500. Mr C didnt answer Starlings query for 
any evidence and told Starling it wasnt their business. 
During the course of these exchanges Mr C raised a complaint. 
At 17:15 Starling confirmed through the online chat that a complaint had been raised and 
that as a regulated bank they were required to monitor accounts, question payments where 
names did not match and ask for documentation. They let Mr C know that if he was unable 
to provide any evidence they would be in contact when they had an update. 
Mr C continued to message on the online chat that he was unhappy, highlighting he had no 
access to his funds. He also requested a call on the online chat at 17:30 and at 18:25 said 
hed called customer services twice requesting a call. 
Starlings notes show that a complaint had been raised and there was a reminder noted to 
call Mr C during daytime business hours. 
On Sunday 10 April 2022 at 11:46 Mr C chased Starling for an update via the online chat. 
And at 13:52 Starling confirmed to Mr C that his account was now fully functional and he 
could continue to use the account as normal. The submissions from Starling show that Mr C 
successfully used the card on 10 April 2022 at 14:07. 
Starling issued their complaint findings to Mr C on 11 April 2022, and Mr C referred his 
complaint to us on the same day. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Cs concerns, but didnt think that Starling had acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances and so they didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr C 
remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the submissions it appears Mr C understands that Starling have responsibilities to 
ensure they are protecting their customers accounts. So I see no need to go into Starlings 
obligations here. 
However, Mr C has said he believes Starling took far too long to resolve the matter and they 
didnt notify him that the account would be suspended, and they didnt keep him updated or 
call him when asked. In reply to our investigators conclusions Mr C also provided copies of 
screenshots to show what names/ details would appear when his friend processed their 
transaction from a third-party bank, as well as an example of what details are shown when a 
Starling customer requests making a faster payment. Mr C said these examples show that 
Starling was wrong about what had happened. 
Having reviewed all the available submissions and evidence from both parties I can see that 
both of the transactions in question show on Starlings records with the wrong beneficiary 
name  neither of the account names submitted for the transactions matched the name of  
Mr Cs account. So I can see why Starlings systems highlighted something for Starling to 
investigate here.
And providing a reference for a payment is not the same thing as describing the name of an 
account to which monies are to be paid. Payment references appearing on a customers 
statement can be described however the payer wishes for the beneficiary to identify the 
payment. I would note that neither of the references used for the transactions in question are 
in the name of the beneficiary either.
Ive looked at the screenshots Mr C has provided, but these are not enough to suggest that 
Starling did anything wrong here  the screenshots do not relate to the actual transactions in 
question, and the example from his friends third-party bank does not show the beneficiary 
name of Mr Cs account. 
Mr C has said in the submissions he thinks that Starling should have resolved the matter 
within an hour. There is no requirement for Starling to do this. And they offered no guarantee 
of when the matter would be resolved. I can see Starling told Mr C they would not be able to 
speed up a review. And before agreeing to unblock an account I would expect Starling to 
satisfy themselves that it was safe to do this for their customer. Ive considered that the terms and conditions explain Starling may suspend or block a card 
for reasons relating to security, suspected unauthorised or fraudulent uses of the card or any 
legal or regulatory obligation or court order, and that where possible they will notify the 
customer, or if thats not possible, as soon as is reasonably practicable afterwards. The 
terms and conditions also set out that if Starling needs to restrict an account for any reason, 
they will not be able to confirm how long any such restriction may remain in place, and 
updates will be provided when necessary. Lastly, the terms and conditions explain there is 
no acceptance of liability for any losses arising from any claim for stress and inconvenience 
as a result of restricting an account. 
I am aware the matter was extremely frustrating for Mr C and that him knowing there was 
nothing wrong with the payments while being questioned about them, would have no doubt 
been very personally upsetting. I can also see that learning his card had been blocked when 
he found himself in store with his transaction being declined wouldve been upsetting and 
embarrassing. 
However, I dont think Starling have acted unreasonably here as these events all happened 
within a short space of time. Starling blocked the account as soon as their systems alerted 
them that something was wrong - so there wouldnt have been time to tell Mr C beforehand 
that the block was going to happen. 
Starlings terms explain updates will be provided when necessary, and I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Starling to note theyd return a call to Mr C during daytime business hours. 
In any event, Starling resolved the matter for Mr C on Sunday and confirmed the account as 
unblocked around 24 hours after it had initially been blocked. So while very frustrating for   
Mr C, I cant say Starling have been unfair or unreasonable here with how long they took to 
resolve things for him  its unfortunate Mr C was unable to provide any evidence for Starling 
as this may have resolved things sooner for him, but I think it would be unfair to then not 
allow Starling time to assure themselves that Mr Cs account wasnt being used incorrectly in 
any way. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Starling have applied the terms and 
conditions of the account unfairly in these circumstances. Or treated Mr C unfairly while 
trying to resolve the matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman