DRN-3758026
The complaint
Mr S complains about some advice, and the corresponding charges, provided to him by 
Grange Court Financial Management LLP (GCFM) in respect of his pension savings.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2022. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this 
decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr Ss original complaint comprised activities that took place between 2013 and 
2021. Although the same financial advisor was providing services to Mr S between 
those dates, the regulated firm for which she worked changed in 2019. So it is right 
that Mr Ss complaint be split so that the two regulated firms remain responsible for 
those parts of the complaint that relate to the time of their servicing of Mr Ss pension 
savings.
In 2013, when he commenced his relationship with GCFM, Mr S was given advice 
about the consolidation of a number of pension policies into a single self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He paid a fee to GCFM for that advice, and agreed to 
engage the firm to provide him with on-going advice and support on his pension 
investments. Mr S paid GCFM 0.5% of the value of his pension investments each 
year for that ongoing support.
In 2018, Mr S asked GCFM to arrange for him to start taking an income from his 
pension savings. At that time GCFM explained that it would need to provide him with 
some regulated advice, reviewing his income needs, and providing proposals about 
how best he might take his pension income over the following years. It explained that 
this advice would incur a separate advice charge equal to 1% of the value of his 
pension savings.
Mr S says that he reluctantly agreed to that charge as his personal circumstances 
meant that he had an urgent need to commence taking income from his pension. But 
he complains that the need for further chargeable advice when he reached retirement 
was not something that he was told about when he first engaged GCFM in 2013. And 
he says that if that information had been provided it might have altered his decision 
about using the firm.
 
Mr Ss pension savings were managed on his behalf by an investment manager. 
GCFM sought some information from that investment manager before it completed 
its advice to him about his retirement options in October 2018. The report that was 
provided to Mr S set out the charges that he was paying to the investment manager, 
and on the funds in which his pension savings were invested. And it explained that, 
once his pension savings entered drawdown, Mr S would need to pay an additional 
charge to the SIPP provider each year.
In early 2019 Mr S was provided with information by the investment manager about 
the charges that he was paying on his pension savings. That information was the first 
produced in line with the requirement of the second EU Markets in Financial 
Instruments Directive (otherwise known as MiFID II) that had been introduced earlier 
in the year. The charges that were shown in that information were significantly 
greater than GCFM had used when producing its advice for Mr S.
In February 2021 Mr S raised a formal complaint with the new firm although the 
response to that complaint has been confirmed as representing the views of GCFM 
also. In summary, in relation to the actions of GCFM, he said that the charge for 
retirement advice had not been notified to him prior to 2018. He said that the charges 
information, upon which GCFMs retirement advice had been based, was 
fundamentally flawed. He asked that GCFM refund the charge it made for its 
retirement advice.
The advice that Mr S received in 2013 was for the consolidation of his pension 
savings. It doesnt appear that Mr S is complaining about that advice specifically, and 
it seems that he remains happy with the decision he took to transfer his pension 
savings into a SIPP. At that time Mr S also engaged GCFM to provide him with 
ongoing support for his pension savings, and since that time he has paid an annual 
charge of 0.5% of the value of his pension savings.
Mr Ss complaint about what happened in 2013 is that GCFM failed to make it clear 
to him that he might need to pay for additional advice when he reached retirement. 
I havent seen the actual advice report that was provided to Mr S in 2013. But I think 
it reasonable to accept that he wasnt told at the time that he might need to pay for 
further advice when he was considering his retirement options.
I think it would be unsurprising if that were the case. In 2013, when that advice was 
given, the options open to a consumer at retirement were far more restricted than 
those that became available from 2015. So it might well be the case that, in 2013, 
GCFM didnt consider such detailed advice would be necessary. It might have been 
able to simply direct Mr S on his more limited retirement options within its normal 
advice meetings. But the changes introduced in 2015 (generally known as pensions 
freedoms) mean that far more detailed consideration is now appropriate.
So I dont think that it would have been unreasonable for GCFM to not set out in its 
original advice what might happen, hypothetically, at some time in the future. It would 
have been unaware of the pensions freedoms changes at that time. And so it couldnt 
have provided any sensible direction on the steps that Mr S might need to take. 
I dont find that any failure to identify additional advice might be needed in the future 
suggests a shortcoming in GCFMs work in 2013.
And for similar reasons I dont think that it is unreasonable for GCFM to levy an 
additional advice charge for the work it undertook in 2018 in assessing the retirement 
options for Mr S. The ongoing servicing charge he paid was precisely that - a charge 
for the routine monitoring and advice in relation to his pension investments. I think, if 
GCFM had incorporated into those charges, provision for additional advice on 
matters that might not arise (such as putting retirement savings into payment) Mr S 
might quite reasonably have found that unacceptable.
It is important that firms providing advice clearly set out any charges that need to be 
paid. And that they ensure that consumers are informed of those charges, and 
provide their agreement to them, before any work commences. I have seen that 
GCFM discussed both the charges, and the reasoning for their implementation, with Mr S on two telephone calls in late August 2019. Whilst I accept that Mr S might have 
felt some pressure to agree to the charges, given his pressing need to access some 
additional income, I dont think that means the charges were unfair.
I am satisfied that GCFM was entitled to make a charge for the advice it was 
providing. And I am further satisfied that Mr S was made aware of, and agreed to 
pay, those charges. So I dont think GCFM did anything wrong here either.
In order to complete its advice, GCFM needed to obtain some information about the 
charges that Mr S would need to pay on his pension investments in the future. So it 
quite reasonably sought information from the investment manager about the charges 
that Mr S was currently paying. I have seen that the information was provided to 
GCFM, and accurately reproduced in the advice it provided to Mr S.
 
But the basis on which those charges, and in particular the charges levied by the 
investment funds, were calculated and reported was in the process of being changed 
at that time. So the information that was provided to GCFM, was quite different to 
that the investment manager reported to Mr S around two months later.
But I dont think that means the work GCFM undertook was fundamentally flawed as 
Mr S suggests. In any report providing advice of this nature a series of reasonable 
assumptions need to be made. For example it cannot be predicted with any certainty 
what might happen many years in the future in respect of investment returns, inflation 
rates, or other market conditions. And for similar reasons GCFM couldnt predict that 
the investment charges might alter. It could only rely on the information provided by 
the investment manager as the best available at that time.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr S but I dont think that 
GCFM has done anything wrong. It was entitled to charge him a further fee for the 
additional advice it provided when looking at his retirement options. And I dont think 
it would have been reasonable to expect those charges to have been predicted a 
number of years earlier, and in a different regulatory environment, when the 
relationship first started. Whilst it is clear that the information used by GCFM on the 
charges Mr S was paying was later superseded I dont think that means GCFMs 
advice was negligent. So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. GCFM has said that it has nothing further to add. Mr S doesnt agree 
with my provisional findings and has provided some further comments. Although I am only 
summarising here what Mr S has said I want to reassure him that I have read, and carefully 
considered, his entire response.
Mr S has asked whether the splitting of his complaint has led to further investigations into the 
specific actions of GCFM  particularly since our original investigation only dealt with the 
new firm. But he said that, in any case, it is important that I consider both complaints 
together  the actions of GCFM had a significant impact on his dealings with the new firm.
Mr S has provided me with copies of the client agreements he signed in 2013 when first 
dealing with GCFM, and later in 2018 when he agreed to the advice about his retirement 
planning. He accepts that he isnt making any complaint about the advice he received in 
2013, but does note that advice didnt make him aware that he would need to pay additional 
charges when he decided to use his retirement savings. He says that, had those charges 
been made clear, he wouldnt have engaged GCFM to provide him with advice at the outset.Mr S points out that neither client agreement made reference to any additional charges. And 
he notes that the 2018 agreement was signed well after the pension freedoms legislation 
had been introduced. He says the first he knew of the drawdown charge was when he asked 
GCFM to put his retirement savings into payment in 2018.
Mr S says that the MiFiD II changes were introduced in January 2018 and so the financial 
services industry would have been well aware of those changes. So he says that the 
transparency of costs introduced by MiFiD II would have been well known, and so shouldnt 
be treated just like any other future assumption. He thinks GCFMs failings in this regard 
renders the whole advice report worthless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what Mr S has said, I am sorry to tell him that I havent changed my mind 
about his complaint. But I would like to comment further on some of the matters that he has 
raised in response to my provisional decision.
The original complaint response that we received covered both the actions of GCFM, and 
those of the new firm. Whilst dealing with his complaint as a whole wasnt appropriate, I am 
satisfied that I had sufficient information on the actions of each firm to reach reasonable 
decisions on both complaints. In particular I would like to reassure him that I did have copies 
of both the client agreements he has recently sent in the original evidence that I considered.
There is little disagreement that neither client agreement made specific reference to any 
charges that might need to be paid at retirement. But I dont share Mr Ss conclusion that this 
was a deliberate action to withhold that information. The client agreements only covered the 
basis on which advice would initially be given, and the ongoing annual servicing charges that 
would need to be paid. Firms would generally expect to provide a range of other financial 
services to clients in excess of those covered within the standard client agreement. 
And those additional services would be subject to their own charging agreement. That is 
exactly what happened when Mr S signed the new client agreement in 2018. That 
agreement only contained the basic information about the ongoing services, even though the 
additional costs of the drawdown advice had already been notified to Mr S. If, as Mr S 
suggests, the agreements had been constructed to muddy the waters about charging, that 
would have been entirely unnecessary in 2018 when the additional charges had already 
been clearly explained.
So I remain satisfied that it was reasonable for GCFM to levy an additional charge for the 
advice that it provided to Mr S when he decided to take some of his retirement benefits. And 
Im not persuaded that the possibility of that charge should have been notified to Mr S when 
he first took advice from the firm in 2013, or subsequently. This was just one of a whole 
range of scenarios that might have necessitated GCFM providing services to Mr S in 
addition to those expected as part of its routine servicing arrangement. I cannot agree that 
the potential costs for this advice in particular, which might never have actually been 
needed, should have been specifically highlighted.
When compiling the advice report it would be entirely right that GCFM should have sought 
the most up to date information about the costs that were applicable to Mr Ss pension 
investments. Mr S is right that the MiFiD II directives were known about widely at that time. 
But that isnt the same as saying the additional information had been published by the investment managers. There was a period of time allowed by the regulations for their 
implementation.
It is possible that GCFM might have been aware that the information it was using on the 
investment charges hadnt been updated to take account of the legislative changes. But, 
even if it was, there would have been little it could do. Mr S had explained the urgency of 
taking some income from his retirement savings, so GCFM couldnt delay producing its 
report until the end of the year when the new charging information was required to be 
available. GCFM needed to proceed with the information it held, and produce the required 
report for Mr S based on the information it had been provided with at the time.
So, as I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think that GCFM has done anything 
wrong. It was entitled to charge Mr S a further fee for the additional advice it provided when 
looking at his retirement options. And I dont think it would have been reasonable to expect 
those charges to have been predicted a number of years earlier, and in a different regulatory 
environment, when the relationship first started. Whilst it is clear that the information used by 
GCFM on the charges Mr S was paying was later superseded I dont think that means 
GCFMs advice was negligent. So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Grange Court Financial Management LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman