DRN-2474822
The complaint
Mr and Ms S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr and Ms S took out PPI for Mr S at around the same time as they applied for a mortgage
in one of the banks branches in 1991. It gave him protection against accident, sickness and
unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Ms S disagreed 
so the complaint was passed to me.
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator and issued a provisional decision setting 
out why I was planning to uphold the complaint (an extract from which follows and forms part 
of this final decision). I asked both parties to send me any additional information or 
comments by 23 December 2020. 
Extract from my provisional decision
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Ms S for Mr S, so it had to make sure it was 
right for him. I dont think it was: it doesnt seem Mr S really needed the policy. I think he 
had sufficient other means and couldve managed without it.
Mr S was entitled to 28 weeks full pay if he was sick, and he then had an index-linked
income protection plan that paid out £200 per week for up to two years. Hes told us he 
had savings worth around six months salary that werent earmarked for anything. He 
also had a redundancy entitlement.
This PPI policy only paid out for up to 12 months so given his circumstances, and 
looking at the ways Mr S had to contribute to their mortgage repayments if he was sick 
or lost his job, I dont think he had a strong need for it.
This means I dont currently think Halifax made the right recommendation when it sold 
PPI to Mr and Ms S. It follows I think Mr and Ms S lost out because of what the bank did 
wrong. 
I then set out how Halifax would need to put things right if I upheld the complaint.
Mr and Ms S responded saying they had no further points to make. Halifax did not respond 
to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
As neither party raised any new points or comments following the provisional decision, it 
follows I have no reason to change the findings or outcome I set out in it and I am upholding 
this complaint.
Putting things right
Halifax must put Mr and Ms S in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt already been, and Halifax should:
Pay Mr and Ms S the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off what he
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give Mr and
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
 My final decision
 My decision is that I am upholding this complaint and Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman