DRN-3793934
The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc irresponsibly gave him a credit card account that he 
couldnt afford.
What happened
On 12 February 2017, Mr R applied for and was given a credit card account with TSB 
Bank plc. Mr R was given an initial credit limit of £2,800. This credit limit was increased to 
£3,800 in August 2017. There were no further increases to the credit limit.  
In 2022, Mr R complained to TSB Bank plc to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that TSB Bank plc ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before increasing his credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr R didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
TSB Bank plc will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Rs complaint is that TSB Bank plc made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability, especially when I have not been able to look 
at Mr Rs full credit file, which was requested but not provided, or the detail of the credit 
scoring exercise that TSB Bank plc performed at the time of the lending decisions. TSB 
Bank plc has explained that it carried out a credit check to determine the amount of credit it 
was able to offer. Its possible that TSB Bank plc failed to make adequate checks before 
providing Mr R with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have 
caused TSB Bank plc to think the credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Mr Rs bank statements show that there was a regular income coming 
into the home, that was not modest. Mr Rs representative has objected to us placing 
weight on the current account Mr R used, as it was a joint one. But I must come to a 
decision, with consideration for all the submissions made to me in a case. And in this 
case, the current account information does show something of the larger picture that the 
borrowing fitted into. 
The bank statements I have seen suggest that whatever other monthly commitments Mr R 
may have had for other credit, the total income each month was roughly the same as his 
monthly expenditure. So, the evidence suggests that, broadly speaking, the current 
account was being managed. And TSB Bank plc has explained that other than some 
instances of being overlimit, the credit card account was largely well managed. So, I have 
seen insufficient evidence in all of this that TSB Bank plc ought to have avoided providing 
the credit to Mr R, either the initial credit limit or the increased one six months later. 
Mr R has told us his finances were in a poorer shape than TSB Bank plcs credit check 
showed. But I been shown insufficient evidence that better information would have put 
TSB Bank plc off providing reasonably modest credit on a credit card. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr R to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led TSB Bank plc to think that the credit it 
provided Mr R was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what TSB Bank plc 
could see of his management of the credit it had provided him ought to have prompted it to 
have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mr R will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr R to know that I have 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman