DRN-2344894
The complaint
Ms J says CMC Markets UK plc (CMC) manipulated the opening execution price of a £50 
EUR/USD Binary Countdown trade she placed in October 2019. She says the price had no 
correlation with the underlying market at the relevant time and that it was created by CMC in 
order to ensure she made a loss from the trade and ensure it made a profit from the trade.
What happened
CMC disputes the complaint. In the main, it says:
Ms Js trade was based on her speculation that upon its closure 60 minutes after 
placing it the closing price would be lower than the opening price; the countdown 
element related to the notion of counting down to expiry of the trade at the end of the 
relevant time term  in Ms Js case, 60 minutes; it operates as market maker in the 
trades and its prices are based on aggregation of price feeds from major forex 
liquidity providers and on its automated pricing engine (and sometimes its manual 
price adjustment); its price adjustment (automated or manual) occurs in order to 
reflect any perceived risk in the product.  
Ms J has referred to the trade price she saw on its platform charts, however its charts 
show settlement prices and not opening prices.
She would have been presented with an order ticket to approve in order to submit the 
trade and that ticket would have shown the opening price she was agreeing to. The 
chart price she saw differed from the execution price because of the price adjustment 
it was entitled to apply. She would have been aware of the difference when she saw 
and approved the order ticket showing the real-time price.
Ms J lost her trade because the closing price was not lower than the opening price. 
No pricing manipulation happened to cause this or at all. However, it appears that 
she was not familiar with its pricing policy so as a one-off gesture of goodwill it 
refunded her the £50 stake in the trade.
Ms J pursues a claim for lost profit  based on the assertion that the trade would have been 
successful but for the manipulation she alleges  so she does not consider the matter 
resolved and she says she has not received the refund mentioned by CMC.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. She broadly agreed with CMCs position. She noted the absence of evidence of 
the order ticket for Ms Js trade, but she had evidence of an order ticket example which 
showed how the execution price, agreed in order to submit the trade, differed from the chart 
price. 
In addition, the investigator referred to provisions (including a risk warning) in the agreed 
terms and conditions for the account which gave notice that, because of market fluctuations 
and technical conditions, execution prices could differ  to the customers disadvantage  
from opening prices displayed on the platform. She also referred to provisions in the terms 
that confirmed CMCs role as market maker and how trading happened on the basis of its 
Our Price. 
Overall, the investigators view was that the pricing terms and risks would have been clear to 
Ms J and that it was her decision whether (or not) to take the associated risks, but CMC did 
nothing wrong in the matter. 
Ms J disagreed with this outcome. She said the trade was a Binary Option, that such trades 
are well known for encouraging price manipulation by firms, that they are banned in the 
European Union and that the regulator in this country needs to do more to regulate them 
effectively. She also considered that CMC should not be allowed what she viewed as unfair 
protection from its terms and conditions, given the seriousness of price manipulation and 
given that its application of an opening price (to her trade) that did not exist in the market at 
the time (or at any time within 30 minutes before or after) cannot be justified. 
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view and the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for the 
same reasons she gave, which I incorporate into this decision. I do not uphold Ms Js 
complaint.
I understand Ms Js wider regulation related points, however they are beyond the present 
complaint and beyond our remit in addressing the complaint  this service is not the industry 
regulator. As part of those comments she also mentioned having other examples of price 
manipulation she suffered from CMC  but the incident in October 2019 is the only matter 
she referred to this service so it is the only matter we have addressed and will presently 
address.
CMC operated as market maker and applied its Our Price to Ms Js trade. The agreed 
terms allowed it to do this.  I do not suggest it could reasonably have applied an arbitrary 
price to the trade. The expectation is that whilst it was contractually entitled to produce its 
own prices  through the external price feeds and its pricing engine and adjustments 
(automated and manual)  its prices had to be reflective of the market. This means they did 
not have to be an exact match with the underlying market prices, but they ought to have 
been within reasonable proximity. 
By receiving price feeds from major forex liquidity providers, the initial implication is that 
CMCs pricing was rooted in the notion of reflecting the underlying market price. Such price 
feeds  from major market makers in the forex market  would indicate that. The price 
adjustment it subsequently applied in Ms Js EUR/USD based trade appears to have been 
the difference of 0.000283 between the price of 1.10994 on its chart and the execution price 
of 1.109657. If, as it appears, the former was reflective of the market price (or CMCs price 
feed) then in forex market trading terms this was a difference of around 3 pips, which would 
not have made the latter unreflective of the underlying market.
As the investigator addressed, the terms for and risks in execution pricing were disclosed to 
Ms J in the course of her customer agreement for the account. I also consider it more likely 
(than not) that the order ticket presented to and approved by her for the trade would have 
indicated to her that the trade was not proceeding on the exact price she had seen on the 
charts.I have not seen evidence of price manipulation by CMC in this case and, on balance, I do 
not consider that Ms J was misled into her trade, in terms of pricing. It is not clear whether 
(or not) the refund offered by CMC has reached her  evidence from CMC is that it has been 
remitted but she says she has not received it. In any case, it appears that CMC stands by 
that offer and I consider it commendable that the offer has been made, given that Ms Js 
complaint and grounds for a refund have not been established  as addressed above. In the 
absence of grounds for a refund, it follows that I do not find grounds to compensate her for 
the alleged lost profit.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman