DRN-3030032
The complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund a payment made on his credit 
card to an online seller for an E-bike.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr F purchased an E-Bike on an online marketplace by way of an E-Money 
provider which led to his Nationwide Building Society (NBS for short) credit card being 
charged the cost of the E-Bike. The bike cost just over £400.
There were issues with the bike sometime later. So he complained to the retailer who he 
describes as being unhelpful. So he turned to NBS.
NBS looked into the matter and explained due to time limits it couldnt chargeback the 
transaction through the card scheme. It also explained that it could have been liable due to 
some legislation but NBS says the required relationship for it to be liable wasnt in place. So 
it decided it didnt need to do anything more.
Mr F didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think NBS had acted unfairly by declining Mr Fs 
claim. Mr F didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the online marketplace, which isnt a 
financial service provider within my remit. Nor is it about the seller of the bike or the E-Money 
provider. This decision is only about whether NBS has treated Mr F fairly in not refunding 
some or all of the transaction under the obligations it has. Its liability here is limited to these 
issues only and is not all encompassing.
authorising the transaction
Mr F says he made the transaction funding it through his NBS Credit card via the E-Money 
provider. He doesnt dispute the amount, the recipient, the date or any other elements of the 
transaction. NBS has explained how it received the transaction and applied it to Mr Fs 
account. So all things considered I think the transaction was properly authorised and NBS 
correctly applied this cost to Mr Fs credit card account.
could NBS challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr F does 
here, NBS (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process.
I dont think NBS couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr F didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
NBS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. But this transaction here is not the simplest of 
transactions. The payment didnt go directly to the online seller of the bike. NBS paid the E-
Money Provider who then paid the marketplace (as per the evidence Mr F has provided) who 
then explained the transaction would appear on his statement with the bike suppliers name. 
It isnt clear whether there was any other parties involved in the movement of the money but 
considering the type of parties involved it is clear that there may have been other parties 
(such as merchant acquirers).
NBS has explained that it couldnt chargeback due to the time limits in place. This is in part 
because of the time between transaction/delivery and when Mr F took his complaint to NBS. 
Ive considered this and Im satisfied its out of time on this basis. I also note that the online 
marketplace has time limits for returns and refunds and Mr F was outside of these also. So 
notwithstanding NBS arguments about who it paid, it seems that Mr F was outside of the 
protections available from the marketplace also. And he would have faced considerable 
costs in returning the bike to either the marketplace or the end supplier considering their 
locations. These costs wouldnt have been insignificant.
So I dont think any Chargeback here had a reasonable prospect of success. So considering 
what it knew and the overall circumstances here, all in all, I dont think Mr F has lost out due 
to NBS approach to chargeback here.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Fs NBSs credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against NBS as he does against the 
supplier if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. In 
summary section 56 has the effect of making NBS responsible during the antecedent 
negotiations leading up to Mr F entering into the agreement. In essence this means NBS 
can be held responsible for the things that were done or said during the sales process before 
agreement was reached.
For a valid claim under this legislation there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement 
in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This means there 
needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods, the debtor, has a direct contractual 
relationship with the supplier, as well as with the credit provider, the creditor. But this isnt 
the case here. Mr F has a relationship with the E-Money Provider and his credit card was 
used to pay the E-Money Provider. The E-Money Provider then paid the Marketplace as 
evidenced by the marketplace saying it had received his payment and as per the 
documentation Mr F has provided which shows the money went to the marketplace. Mr Fs 
statement shows (as does some of the documentation) the E-money provider and the name 
of the supplier. But Im not persuaded that this doesnt mean it went through the 
marketplaces account first. Bearing in mind it acknowledged receipt of the funds I think it 
likely it went through the marketplaces accounts as well. So it seems clear that, at least, the 
funds went from Mr Fs card, to the E-money provider then to the marketplace and finally on 
to the end supplier of the bike. And it maybe that there were further parties undisclosed also.But Mr F had a contract for the purchase directly with the online seller but its clear he didnt 
pay them directly. So in essence this is at least a four-party relationship and possibly five or 
more. This isnt necessarily fatal as case law shows in this area (particularly cases which are 
commonly referred to as the OFT Case and the Truman Case). I do not intend on 
discussing these cases at length here but in essence they say that there are circumstances 
where extra parties dont break the DCS relationship as long as they dont make the 
arrangements too tenuous. And this needs to be considered on a case by case basis.
This service has been in contact with the E-Money provider and after repeated requests it 
hasnt been able to provide any further details about the transaction. This service has also 
been in contact with Mr F in order to try to get more details about the contract and the 
transaction in relation to the marketplace. Mr F hasnt been able to provide anything further 
either. So it is clear we do not have a precise understanding of how the e-money provider 
acted in this transaction (it offers multiple services) nor how the marketplace acted or indeed 
the actual contract for the bikes sale. But it is also clear these issues around lack of 
evidence arent going to be resolved, so in the interests of finality for both sides Im now 
writing this decision.
In order for NBS to decide DCS is established it needs to be able to ascertain not only the 
contract entered into but also and firstly the precise nature of the relationships between the 
parties. It needs to be able to do this in order to decide whether it could be liable under the 
legislation or not. This would also be the case if Mr F was to act against the Supplier or the 
marketplace. So this isnt an unfair thing for it to do. NBS wouldnt have any liability for 
breach or misrepresentation if it wasnt for this legislation.
NBS in its assessment of the situation has simply pointed to the presence of the E-money 
provider and said the DCS relationship isnt in place. Im not necessarily persuaded this 
argument is sufficient to say there is no DCS in place. However Im not persuaded NBS is 
necessarily wrong in its conclusion there is no DCS either. However not only as this service 
not been able to fully understand what happened in relation to the e-money provider but 
weve not been able to understand how the transaction went from the e-money provider to 
the marketplace or to the end supplier. Nor has this service been able to get the contract that 
was entered into. So although NBS position is an oversimplification of the matter it could still 
be treating Mr F fairly by not taking matters further. There simply isnt the evidence available 
to show NBS should be liable for anything that is wrong with the bike. 
Mr F has been unhappy with the bike for around two years now. And it should be 
remembered that NBS only has potential liability here due to this legislation. Mr Fs primary 
dispute is with the supplier of the bike. And it maybe that such a dispute could be defended 
by the supplier on the basis of fair wear and tear causing the issues to the bike which Mr F 
points to rather than defect at the point of sale. So whether or not NBS rationale is correct I 
dont think makes a difference. This is because Im not persuaded it has treated him unfairly 
by not paying out in relation the issues with the bike which Mr F points to. Simply because 
there isnt persuasive evidence that its position is unfair. Which is a different test to whether 
Mr F is happy with the bike-which he clearly isnt. But this doesnt mean that NBS has 
treated him unfairly. And I can only decide on what NBS has done here rather than any other 
party.
Mr F says he should be informed that he might not have protection under the legislation. 
However he set up the instruction between NBS and the e-money provider and it was he 
who entered into the agreement to buy the bike. Banks cannot be expected to understand 
the contracts its customers enter into and pre-emptively describe to them the consequences 
of what would be almost limitless potential scenarios. Their only requirements are to process 
transactions in line with its customers instructions, to fulfil their obligations and to consider disputes fairly that are brought to it. And Im not persuaded NBS has treated Mr F unfairly 
here.
Im not persuaded that the necessary DCS relationship is made out here to make NBS 
responsible under this legislation. And even if we knew the precise relationship I think it likely 
it could be too tenuous to hold NBS responsible. And Im not persuaded that even if there 
was the relationship that there is sufficient to show that there is breach or misrepresentation 
here. And thus it is fair that NBS isnt responsible for any failings by online seller. So Mr Fs 
complaint here fails.
So I think that Mr F hasnt lost out here as I think NBS made a fair decision in not taking the 
chargeback issue further. Im satisfied the necessary relationship (DCS) isnt made out here 
and if it was it would be likely to be too tenuous, so NBS cannot be held liable for any breach 
or misrepresentation by the online seller. And I think NBS correctly applied the cost of the 
bike to Mr Fs credit card account. So I dont think I can fairly require NBS to refund Mr F for 
it. 
I appreciate this isnt the decision Mr F wants to read. And he has clearly lost out. But I dont 
think NBS has treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman