The complaint
Ms H and Mr T say that The Co-operative Bank Plc mis-sold them two mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
This complaint is about regular premium PPI policies taken out with mortgages in 2003 and 
2006. On both occasions the PPI was sold in branch.
The 2003 policy covered accident, sickness and unemployment. The 2006 policy only 
covered unemployment. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in respect of the 2003 PPI only. The Co-operative 
Bank accepted this and offered to refund what Ms H and Mr T paid for the 2003 policy. 
Ms H and Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms H and Mr Ts case. 
PPI sold in 2006
This policy only covered unemployment. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms H and Mr Ts complaint about the PPI sold in 2006 for the 
following reasons.
Ms H and Mr T completed a separate application form for the PPI. The Co-Operative Bank 
also have records showing that it was discussed, and that Ms H and Mr T chose to take it. 
So, I think The Co-operative Bank made Ms H and Mr T aware that they had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it. 
The Co-operative Bank didnt recommend the PPI to Ms H and Mr T so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for them. Despite this, based on what theyve said about their 
circumstances at the time, I think it was right for them. They told The Co-operative Bank at 
that time that they only wanted unemployment cover because they were happy to use their 
savings to cover the mortgage if they were unable to work due to accident or sickness.
DRN-1680328 
 
I think The Co-operative Bank couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Ms H and Mr T would still have bought it. 
Its possible The Co-operative Bank didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But Ms H and Mr T dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Ms H and Mr Ts comments, including what theyve said about their 
circumstances essentially being the same as in 2003. But these points dont change my 
conclusion. Ms Hs medical condition didnt affect the cover taken in 2006, as it wouldn't 
prevent them making a claim under the unemployment cover they took out. 
PPI sold in 2003
This policy covered accident, sickness and unemployment.
Ive decided to uphold Ms H and Mr Ts complaint because I dont think The Co-operative 
Bank gave Ms H and Mr T clear enough information about the policy. I say this because The 
Co-operative Bank didn't clearly explain that the accident and sickness cover wouldn't pay 
out for pre-existing medical conditions. I think this would've mattered to Ms H and Mr T 
because Ms H had a medical condition which wouldn't have been covered. So Ms H and Mr 
T couldnt have claimed on the policy for everything they expected to be able to. 
I dont think Ms H and Mr T wouldve bought the policy if The Co-operative Bank had given 
them enough information about it. So, I think Ms H and Mr T has lost out because of what 
The Co-operative Bank did wrong. 
Putting things right
In respect of the PPI sold in 2003 only, The Co-operative Bank should put Ms H and Mr T in 
the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out that policy. The policy should be 
cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and The Co-operative Bank should:
Pay Ms H and Mr T the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Ms H and Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, The Co-operative 
Bank can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires The Co-operative Bank to take off tax from this interest. 
The Co-operative Bank must give Ms H and Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if they ask for one.
 
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms H and Mr Ts complaint.
The Co-operative Bank Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman