DRN-4045393
The complaint
Mr N has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with Gaudi Regulated Services Limited 
(Gaudi). Mr N says Gaudi failed to carry out appropriate due diligence checks on his 
application to open the SIPP and invest in non-mainstream investments which have since 
failed causing his pension to lose all its value.
What happened
Gaudi is the operator and administrator of a SIPP called The EasySIPP (Version 2).
In March 2014 Mr N applied for an EasySIPP.  He applied to transfer an existing personal 
pension to the SIPP.  It was valued at around £30,000.  It was estimated that this was 
around 30% of Mr Ns total pensions savings.  It was recorded that Mr N wanted to take 
benefits from his pension at age 67. Mr N was aged between 45-50 at the time.
As part of the application Mr N gave details of his financial adviser as BlueInfinitas Ltd.
BlueInfinitas was a regulated financial advice firm shown on the FCA register as authorised 
[between] January 2014 and January 2016.  As I understand it, BlueInfinitas went into 
liquidation in 2015.
As part of the application form Mr N agreed to the following declarations:
I authorise the EasySIPP from [Gaudi] Administration team to open a transactional 
account with SVS Securities Plc.
And:
I acknowledge the receipt of the SVS Securities Plc Terms of Business and Affinity 
Bond addendum which describe and control the basis upon which dealing within the 
SIPP will be undertaken, and I have been notified of the charges for such dealings 
with the transactional account.
Accordingly, as part of the application process an account was opened with SVS Securities 
(SVS) and Gaudi has provided a copy of a document dated the same day as the Gaudi 
application which is headed:
SVS Securities plc Terms of Business
Appendix G
Discretionary Managed Service
This document begins: 
These terms shall apply if You have an account that falls within the SVS 
Discretionary Managed Service and should be read in conjunction with the service 
features and risk warnings as indicated in the Discretionary Managed Service 
product brochure and the SVS Securities Terms of Business (Standard Terms).  
Where applicable, these terms shall apply in addition to the Standard Terms.  Where 
any conflict arises between there terms and the Standard Terms, these terms shall 
prevail.
I cannot see that any box has been ticked or any other process used to say the discretionary 
managed service applies but the form is signed by Mr N.  This would tend to indicate that the 
discretionary service did apply in addition to the Standard Terms.
As mentioned below, it is Gaudis position that SVS was Mr Ns investment manager in this 
case.  On the basis that the discretionary managed service did apply, Mr N gave SVS the 
power to make investments on his behalf.
Also as part of that application process, on the same day, Mr N signed a letter printed on 
Gaudis notepaper that included the following:
Scheme Name: The EasySIPP from [Gaudi]
Investment Name: Affinity Bond 
I, [Mr N] being the prospective member/member of the above Scheme write to 
instruct Gaudi Regulated Services Limited acting on behalf of Gaudi Trustee Limited 
to purchase Affinity Series I Bonds, as indicated in my separate application, on my 
behalf for the above Scheme.
I confirm that I will receive no personal benefit as a result of my SIPP making the 
investment and there is no form of pensions liberation associated with the making of 
this investment.
I confirm that I have considered the information prospectus provided by Affinity and I 
am fully aware that the investment is High Risk and/or speculative, may be illiquid 
and/or difficult to value or sell, which may impact on my ability to take my pension 
benefits and take a pension income and confirm that I wish to proceed.
I understand that connected party loans are not a permissible investment of a SIPP 
and therefore myself or any connected partycannot receive a loan from Affinity 
either directly or indirectly.
I acknowledge that I have been recommended to seek professional advice from a 
suitably qualified and authorised adviser and have done so via the adviser detailed in 
my SIPP application.
I am fully aware that Gaudiact on an Execution Only Basis as directed by me as a 
scheme member and that Gaudi has not provided any advice whatsoever in 
respect of this investment or the SIPP
I will refer to the above as the disclaimer letter.
A position statement from SVS Securities showing the position on the SVS account to 
September 2018 shows just over £21,000 was paid into the SVS account by Gaudi in April 
2014 and £21,000 was invested in Affinity Properties Series 1 Bond.  
On 4 April 2014 initial adviser remuneration relating to Easy SIPP of £1,000 was paid to 
BlueInfinitas by Gaudi.
A further £8,000 was paid into the SVS account by Gaudi in May 2014.  This was invested in 
various shares in June 2014. Nearly £7,000 was invested in three non-main market shares and most of the remainder split in investments of £100 into eight FTSE 100 shares. There 
were no further sales of investments of note after 2014.  The three non-main market 
securities are all shown as delisted by the end of the period covered by the statement ie by 
September 2018.  (For convenience I will refer to these investments as the SVS shares.)
A payment of annual adviser remuneration of around £250 was paid by Gaudi to 
BlueInfinitas in April 2015.
In August 2018 a claims management company (CMC) acting for Mr N made a subject 
access request to Gaudi under the Data Protection Act.
In December 2018 Gaudi was contacted by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) asking for information in relation to a claim made by Mr N.  That letter did not specify 
which firm the FSCS was considering a claim about.
In January 2019 (ie within six years of the events complained of in 2014) the CMC wrote a 
letter of complaint to Gaudi on behalf of Mr N.  It made a number of points including:
Mr N invested in an investment called Affinity which is unregulated and high risk and 
not suitable for non-sophisticated low risk investors such as Mr N.
The investments were selected for Mr N and Gaudi failed to carry out sufficient 
checks on those anomalous investments. 
Gaudi did not uphold the complaint.  It replied, also in January 2019, and made a number of 
points including:
The adviser firm responsible for establishing the SIPP went into administration and 
applied to cancel its authorisation in 2015.
It was the adviser who assessed Mr Ns risk profile and made their recommendations 
based on it.
Gaudi wrote to Mr N in June 2015 explaining the position with BlueInfinitas and 
recommended clients obtain alternative independent advice as (it said) the assets 
held in their SIPP required active management.
Mr N did not appoint another adviser and so his investments have been unmanaged.
Affinity is still paying interest and had paid interest as recently as October 2018.
The investment was accepted as a non-standard investment by Gaudi and its due 
diligence on the investment was checked by the FCA in as part of the third Thematic 
Review of SIPP Operators and it was informed its due diligence was sufficient to 
allow clients to continue to invest.
The other investments made by Mr N were all listed on either the London Stock 
Exchange or AIM.
Mr N referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  We asked Mr N for 
details of the claim he had made to the FSCS.
In return for the payment of compensation by the FSCS he was required to assign to it his 
right to make claims against other third parties such as Gaudi.  In August 2021 the FSCS 
reassigned those rights to Mr N, but a term of that re-assignment is that that he must repay 
the money he received from FSCS from any money he receives from any third party he 
makes a successful claim against.Mr N provided a copy of a document headed Claim Summary relating to his FSCS claim in 
relation to BlueInfinitas. On the form when asked to describe why he was making his claim 
Mr N wrote:
I wish to make this claim based on the poor advise [sic] I was given to transfer my 
pension believing there was no risk involved into SVS Securities which I now know 
has failed.  I was told that my pension would continue to work for me but with better 
returns because the areas invested in were secure.
Mr N also explained that he was awarded almost £37,000 in December 2018 and a further 
(approximately) £13,000 in August 2020 bringing his total award to £50,000 which was the 
maximum FSCS award at the time Mr N made his claim.
As I understand it, the FSCS paid the lower sum in 2019 because it assessed Mr Ns holding 
of the Affinity Series 1 Bonds to have a value of £21,000 as the SVS portfolio valuation still 
showed the Bond has having that value.  This initial loss calculation also showed Mr Ns 
pension would have been worth around £60,000 if it had not been transferred to Gaudi and 
invested through SVS in the way it was.  The calculation also said Mr N had liquid assets in 
his SVS portfolio (the SVS shares) worth around £2,000.
In 2019 the FSCS made a second calculation this time it valued the Affinity Bond at zero and 
calculated Mr Ns total loss at almost £58,000.
One of our investigators then sent out her opinion about Mr Ns complaint.  She thought it 
should be upheld.  She made several points including:
The regulator has issued reports and guidance on and to SIPP operators in 2009, 
2012, 2013 and 2014.  These set out the regulators expectations and are relevant 
considerations when considering what is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of Mr Ns complaint.
Gaudi was obliged to carry out due diligence on the SVS investment platform and 
the Affinity Bond investment. She had not however considered whether Gaudi should 
have accepted business from BlueInfinitas because it was her view that Gaudi should 
not have held investments with SVS within its SIPP.
Gaudi had serious concerns about SVS in 2012 ie before Mr N invested in 2014.  It 
carried out a review and identified that all its clients with SVS had invested in the 
same narrow range of investments - mostly AIM listed securities including in SVS 
itself.  It also discovered that an adviser at a third-party business was apparently 
involved in advising the clients.  Given those concerns Gaudi should not have 
allowed Mr N to invest via SVS.
Although Gaudi said it carried out due diligence on the Affinity investment it asked 
Mr N to sign a declaration that said the Affinity Bond was high risk and/or speculative 
and may be illiquid or difficult to sell which might impact Mr Ns ability to take his 
pension and Mr N was asked to confirm that he wished to proceed.  The investigator 
was concerned that Gaudi still permitted this investment against the background of it 
having concerns about SVS.
In other cases, Gaudi had said that SVS was acting as an execution only broker.  If 
that is so someone else, presumably BlueInfinitas, picked the investments but it was 
not authorised to do so.  So, Gaudi should not have accepted such business.
But in the circumstances given what the investigator thought about the checks in 
relation to SVS, the investigator did not need to consider whether Gaudi had carried 
out adequate checks on BlueInfinitas.The investigator said Mr N would not have invested through SVS or in the Affinity 
Bond but for Gaudis errors. The investigator said Gaudi should compensate Mr N for 
the losses he has suffered, and the investigator explained how she thought things 
should be put right by Gaudi.
Gaudi did not agree with the investigator.  It made points in response, including:
The investigator has misunderstood the roles of the various parties referred to.
BlueInfinitas was not an introducer.  It was a regulated independent financial adviser.  
Gaudi carried out adequate in the circumstances checks on that business.  It was 
registered, had no adverse disciplinary history and no adverse comments found on- 
line.  The adviser had the relevant permissions to give advice.
There was no reason to refuse to accept business from BlueInfinitas. 
Gaudi wrote to Mr N in 2015 to invite him to appoint another adviser when 
BlueInfinitas ceased trading in 2015.  That letter shows Gaudis understanding of 
BlueInfinitas role.  The letter included:
oThe purpose of this letter is to reassure you that the monies invested in your 
pension remain invested.  Your pension is operated by Gaudi Regulated 
Services Limited who are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and all 
assets, including any cash, are held with a regulated custodian.  Both 
companies are in no way linked to BlueInfinitas who acted purely in giving 
advice for you to take out your current pension and identifying the initial 
investments.  All assets continue to be held with fully regulated third party 
custodians and any cash that remains uninvested is held in a deposit account 
within your pension arrangement.  The fact BlueInfinitas has ceased trading in 
no way impacts on the security of your pension.
Mr N did not challenge the letter or the point that it was BlueInfinitas that gave advice 
at the time.
The investigator should not refer to submissions made in other complaints.  It is 
Gaudis position in this case that SVS was acting as Mr Ns investment manager.  It 
is not Gaudis position that SVS was acting as an execution only broker.
It was BlueInfinitas role to place instructions with SVS.  There is no suggestion that 
BlueInfinitas acted with discretion and picked investments without Mr Ns 
involvement.
The comments made about Gaudis review of SVS relates to a different complaint 
and is not relevant to this one.  Gaudis concern related to investment in SVS itself  
and shares in unlisted companies connected to SVS.  Mr N did not invest in that 
security and at no point has it been alleged that the third-party adviser who was 
mentioned in that review gave advice to Mr N.
The FCA handbook Notice 29 issued in 2015 said that an investment with a 
discretionary fund manager can be regarded as a standard investment provided 
arrangements were in place to ensure that it only invested in standard assets.  Gaudi 
did this and so its obligations were fulfilled.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is obliged to take that guidance into account.
The Affinity investment was actioned by SVS and so no input was required from 
Gaudi.
Nevertheless, Gaudi has provided details of the due diligence that was carried out.
Another regulated firm approved the investment memorandum and its appropriate for a regulated firm to rely on the representations made by another regulated firm.  
Given the success of other investments of that other regulated firm, the Affinity 
investment did not raise any fraud or financial crime indicators during this due 
diligence process.
Gaudi carried out its own due diligence on the Affinity Corporation Properties Bonds 
I, II and III.
Gaudi checked that the investment was what it said it was.  Gaudi required any sales 
to be fully advised or promoted by a regulated firm.  In this case BlueInfinitas was 
noted as the regulated financial adviser with full permissions to provide pension 
transfer and investment advice.
Written risk warnings were provided to potential investors and had to be signed 
before proceeding with the investment.  Mr N signed the warnings in this case.
Gaudi identified the investment as high risk, told the customer that, and required the 
customer to acknowledge that before permitting the investment to go ahead.
Mr N transferred from a defined contribution arrangement to another pension that 
was similarly reliant on investment returns.  Gaudi does not have the regulatory 
permission to assess the suitability of one compared to another.
Gaudi complied with its obligations under COBS 11.2.19R in acting on its clients 
written instructions to switch his pension rights and transfer funds to SVS which were 
subsequently invested in Affinity.  To decline to do so would have been akin to 
assessing suitability requiring Gaudi to investigate the full extent of Mr Ns financial 
circumstances etc. Gaudi did not have regulatory permission to carry on such work.
The above point is reflected in the terms and conditions agreed with Mr N.
In all the circumstances Gaudi could not reasonably have alerted Mr N to any 
suitability issues.  It did all it could which was to put Mr N on notice of the risks of 
investing in high risk and/or illiquid and/or speculative shares and suggest that 
independent advice be taken.
The situation is entirely different to one involving an obvious fraud.  With situations 
such as this one it is far less clear on what basis Gaudi would turn down the 
application.  Gaudi could not do so on suitability grounds.
Gaudi does not recommend or provide advice on any investments which are held in 
the SVS managed account.  The client and/or his adviser were responsible for giving 
instructions to SVS Securities.  Gaudi was not involved in that process.  The 
assessment of suitability was the responsibility of Mr N.
This was explained in the terms and conditions which included:
oGaudi will normally only allow investments into the following:
Cash and FSA registered funds
Shares listed on LSE. AIM, or an HMRC recognized overseas 
exchange.  This includes corporate bonds, investment trusts, OEICS, 
PIBs and REITs
FCA registered unit trusts
Certain other investments which have been pre-arranged by Gaudi 
which includes Affinity Series I Bonds
Similarly, the key features of the Easy SIPP stated:
oWhat can I invest in?oYou, or your advisers, can choose from a range of investments and 
investment providers as detailed below.  This list will change from time to time 
and Gaudi Regulated Services Limited reserves the right to refuse certain 
investments.  The investments and investment providers currently permitted 
are:
oBank account with Royal Bank of Scotland
oA dealing account will be opened with SVS securities through which any 
investment into the Affinity Bond will be transacted.
Mr N was informed on at least four occasions in the key features document that he or 
his adviser were responsible for the choice of investment and the subsequent 
management of the investment.  He also signed a declaration to say he had read and 
understood the terms and conditions.  It has not been explained why the normal legal 
principle that someone is bound by the documents he signs has not been followed.
Either Mr N read and ignored the warnings, or failed to read them, or was advised to 
invest in any event by BlueInfinitas.  Gaudi should not be held responsible in any of 
these scenarios.
It is understood that Mr N has made a claim to the FSCS, but it is not clear who the 
claim was made in respect of or whether a payment was paid and if so whether the 
right to make a claim has been reassigned to Mr N.  
The approach to redress taken by the investigator suggests Gaudi should have 
rejected the application.  There is no basis for comparing to the ceding scheme.  The 
application did not state how Mr N intended to invest.  From Gaudis point of view the 
funds were transferred to SVS and SVS was to invest the funds elsewhere.  SVS 
was considered a standard asset so there was no reason for Gaudi to be concerned 
and Gaudi had carried out due diligence on SVS (and Affinity) in any event.
In summary Gaudi had carried out adequate due diligence on BlueInfinitas, SVS and 
Affinity.  Gaudi complied with the duties on it.
I considered Mr Ns complaint and issued a provisional decision in February 2023. I 
explained why I thought Mr Ns complaint should be upheld.  I provisional decision included:
As an opening comment I make clear that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an 
informal dispute resolution body that does not have strict process rules and is not 
bound by the usual rules of evidence. This means that in considering this complaint I 
can consider things Gaudi has said or provided in other complaints if I consider them 
relevant.  The important point is that I give the parties the opportunity to comment 
before I make a final decision so that the parties know what I have considered 
relevant and they have an opportunity to comment and, for example, get the chance 
to correct what they think may be misunderstandings, before I make a final decision. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Relevant considerations 
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my 
decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this 
complaint include Principle 2, 3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business 
with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care 
to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the 
application of the FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v 
Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J 
said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which 
the specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied 
with. The Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to 
contradict them. They are but specific applications of them to the particular 
requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an 
error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the 
Ombudsman to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into 
account in deciding what would be fair and reasonable and what redress to 
afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the FSA, the FOS would 
find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to the 
sort of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever 
formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, 
subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2018] EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial 
review claim challenging the decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a 
consumers complaint against it. The ombudsman considered the FCA 
Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time.
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have 
undertaken due diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into 
the SIPP wrapper, and that if it had done so, it would have refused to accept 
the investment. The ombudsman found Berkeley Burke had therefore not 
complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 
162 set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As 
the FCA correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. 
The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were always 
intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles based 
regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to 
impose general duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when 
deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the 
lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I 
have described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice 
at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken 
into account.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach 
of statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the 
Principles into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the 
application of the Principles in Berkeley Burke. So the Principles are a 
relevant consideration here and I will consider them in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint.
The Adams Court cases
I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in Adams v Options SIPP 
[2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v Options UK 
Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I note the Supreme Court refused 
Options permission to appeal the Court of Appeal judgement.
Ive considered whether these judgments mean that the Principles should not 
be taken into account in deciding this case. And, I am of the view they do not. 
In the High Court case, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the 
Principles and they did not form part of the pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. 
One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found that the judgment of Jacobs J 
in BBSAL was not of direct relevance to the case before him was because the 
specific regulatory provisions which the learned judge in Berkeley Burke was 
asked to consider are not those which have formed the basis of the claimants 
case before me. Likewise, the Principles were not considered by the Court of 
Appeal. So, the judgments say nothing about the application of the FCAs 
Principles to the ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with 
certain of the Principles and that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the 
High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options owed him a duty to comply 
with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to 
section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and 
found that Options had complied with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr 
Adams case.
Although Mr Adams appeal of the High Court judgment was partially successful, 
the Court of Appeal rejected the part of Mr Adams appeal that related to HHJ 
Dights dismissal of the COBS claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that found in his initial pleadings. 
The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did not so much represent a 
challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, 
but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that, in the High Court judgment, HHJ Dight found that the factual context 
of a case would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ 
Dight said at para 148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by 
Rule 2.1.1 one has to identify the relevant factual context, because it 
is apparent from the submissions of each of the parties that the 
context has an impact on the ascertainment of the extent of the duty. 
The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the context is the agreement 
into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and functions 
in the transaction.
The issues in Mr Ns complaint are different from the issues as pleaded in 
Adams. There are also significant differences between the breaches of COBS 
2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and from the issues in Mr Ns complaint. The 
breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. 
In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship between the 
parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that 
happened after the contract was entered into. In Mr Ns complaint, I will, 
amongst other things, consider whether Gaudi ought to have identified that 
applications from via BlueInfinitas involved a risk of consumer detriment and, if 
so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from BlueInfinitas 
before it entered into a contract with Mr N.
On this point I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, I am required to take into account 
relevant considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is a clear 
and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal 
pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding that Gaudi was not 
obliged  and not able  to give advice to Mr N on the suitability of its SIPP or 
the Affinity investment, or the other investments held by SVS, for him 
personally. But I am satisfied Gaudis obligations included deciding whether to 
accept particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept 
introductions of business from particular businesses. And this is consistent 
with Gaudis own understanding of its obligations at the relevant time. 
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications 
which remind SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they 
might achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles, namely:
 The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
 The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance. The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they 
provide advice, are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for 
Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its clients 
and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a 
pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the 
individual risks to themselves and their clients, with reference to the 
six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not 
responsible for the SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. 
However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot absolve 
themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have 
procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances 
of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. 
Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for 
example by contacting the member to confirm the position, or by 
contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, 
while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a reputational risk 
to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were 
weak and inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious 
potential instances of poor advice and/or potential financial crime. 
Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we may 
take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard 
their clients interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the 
Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could 
consider, taken from examples of good practice that we observed and 
suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that 
intermediaries that advise clients are authorised and 
regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the 
firms clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA 
website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, 
and clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of 
the SIPP investment) and size of investments recommended 
by intermediaries that give advice and introduce clients to the 
firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually 
small or large transactions or more esoteric investments 
such as unquoted shares, together with the intermediary that 
introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if 
it is concerned about the suitability of what was 
recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients 
by the intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are 
not responsible for advice, having this information would 
enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who 
have signed disclaimers taking responsibility for their 
investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation 
rights, and the reasons for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been 
updated to give firms further guidance to help meet the regulatory 
requirements. These are not new or amended requirements, but a 
reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement 
in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must 
meet Principle 6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that 
a member of a pension scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so 
is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators responsibility to 
assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer 
outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce 
prospective members and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP 
operators include the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: 
introducers that advise clients are authorised and regulated 
by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions to 
give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its 
approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or 
cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings 
for un-authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern 
relationships and clarify the responsibilities of those 
introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish 
the nature of the firm, what their business objectives are, the 
types of clients they deal with, the levels of business they 
conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments 
they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by 
unusually small or large transactions; or higher risk 
investments such as unquoted shares which may be illiquid. 
This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, 
for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if 
it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their 
cancellation rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP 
investment advice given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a 
responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to 
ensure the information they are being supplied with, or that 
they are providing the firm with, is authentic and meets the 
firms procedures and are not being used to launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which 
govern relationships and clarify responsibilities for 
relationships with other professional bodies such as solicitors 
and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate 
the SIPP operators have considered the additional risks 
involved in accepting business from non- regulated 
introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to 
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms 
should ensure that they conduct and retain appropriate and sufficient 
due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers as 
well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal 
pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In 
doing this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are 
permitted by HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that 
charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the tax charge 
paidperiodically reviewing the due diligence the firm 
undertakes in respect of the introducers that use their 
scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and 
mitigate any risks to the members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate 
permissions, qualifications and skills to introduce 
different types of business to the firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing 
Companies House records, identifying 
connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or 
relies on has been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of 
setting the minimum standard the firm is prepared to accept to 
either deal with introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that 
would lead a firm to decline the proposed business, or to 
undertake further investigations such as instances of potential 
pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax- 
relievable investments and non-standard investments that 
have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the 
Principles apply and an indication of the FCAs expectations about the 
kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might reasonably take to 
achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its 
obligations in relation to investment due diligence. It says those 
obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of 
assets is through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual 
agreements are correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both 
at point of purchase and subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment 
providers are credit worthy etc)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their 
relevance, I have considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are 
not formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the 
fact that the reports and Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance 
does not mean their importance should be underestimated. They provide a 
reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its customers 
fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect 
the publications, which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP 
operators should be doing, also goes some way to indicate what I consider 
amounts to good industry practice and I am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate 
to take them into account.
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry 
practice in the BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators 
reports, guidance and letter go a long way to clarify what should be regarded 
as good practice and what should not. And the judge in BBSAL endorsed the 
lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman.
Although the dear CEO letter of July 2014 was published after the events 
subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin it existed throughout, as 
did the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear 
CEO letter in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have 
incorporated the recommended good practices into the conduct of their 
business already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some 
industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear 
the standards themselves had not changed.
I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not consider the 2012 thematic 
review, 2013 SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of 
relevance to his consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it does not follow that 
those publications are irrelevant to my consideration of what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I am required to take into 
account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, the 
publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
That doesnt mean that, in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only 
consider Gaudis actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear 
CEO letter and guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry 
practice. They did not say the suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP 
operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should 
be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Gaudi to 
ensure the pension transfer was suitable for Mr N. It is accepted Gaudi was 
not required to give advice to Mr N, and could not give advice. And I accept 
the publications do not alter the meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. 
But they are evidence of what I consider to have been good industry practice 
at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes envisaged by the 
Principles.
The investigators view
I understand the approach taken by the investigator in concentrating on one issue 
and not dealing with others after finding Gaudi at fault.  However in this case that 
does leave open the possibility that even if Gaudi had not done business with SVS in 
this case would the same investments have been made in the SIPP in any event?I have therefore thought about things in the round.  I have considered Gaudis 
dealings with SVS, BlueInfinitas and Affinity and then come to a view about whether 
Mr N has been treated fairly and reasonably by Gaudi in this case.
A typical SIPP arrangement
The way in which a SIPP might typically be used is as follows:
A consumer (client) consults a financial adviser and it is agreed that the client 
wants to invest his or her pension in a way that is not possible in their existing 
personal pension.  The consumer might for example want to have an actively 
managed portfolio of shares.
The adviser might then recommend a SIPP for such an arrangement and 
advise the consumer to switch his existing personal pension to a SIPP with a 
particular SIPP operator and recommend a stockbroker or other investment 
manager to act as a discretionary fund manager (DFM) of the SIPP portfolio 
for the client. 
Assuming this goes ahead, the DFM would typically enter into a discretionary 
management agreement with the client.  This is an agreement giving the DFM 
the power to buy and sell investments at its discretion on behalf of the client 
without first seeking his or her agreement for the deal to go ahead.  
And there would typically be an agreement between the DFM and the SIPP 
operator allowing the DFM to manage the funds that are held within the SIPP.
Typically the SIPP operator will put some restrictions on the types of 
investment the SIPP operator will permit the DFM to hold within the SIPP.  
The DFM then chooses the investments and makes those investments which 
might be held in its nominee account but within the SIPP wrapper. When 
holding those investments for the client the DFM might be referred to as a 
custodian.
So in brief the financial adviser recommends the SIPP operator and the switch of 
funds to the SIPP operator.  And the financial adviser recommends the DFM.  And 
the DFM then chooses the investments.
The SIPP arrangement in this case
In this case there are parties who, in principle, fit the above typical roles.
Mr Ns adviser was BlueInfinitas.  It advised Mr N to switch his pension to a SIPP 
operated by Gaudi.  And SVS was appointed as DFM.
But things are less clear cut in this case than in the description of a typical case I 
have given above.  For example the majority of the funds were invested in Affinity 
Bond which was recommended by BlueInfinitas before SVS was appointed, leaving 
only a small proportion of Mr Ns funds to be invested under the DFM arrangement.
The Affinity investment
As mentioned above, Mr N transferred around £30,000 from an existing pension and 
£21,000 was invested in Affinity Bond series I in April 2014. The Affinity Bond series 1 was a fixed income bond paying 6% per year with a ten-
year term.  It was launched in June 2013.  The bond was an unsecured non-
transferrable bond backed by UK commercial real estate managed by Affinity 
Commercial LLP described as a specialist asset manager to banks and private 
clients with over £200m under management.
The Bonds were referred to in their promotional document as highly illiquid.  The 
investments would therefore, generally, be seen as higher risk investments. This 
does not in and of itself mean that the bonds were unsuitable for pension 
investments.  Suitability depends on the individual circumstances of investors, and it 
was not Gaudis role to consider the suitability of investments for its members.  It 
does however mean that Gaudi would, or should, have been aware that these 
investments might not be suitable for all investors and that there was the potential for 
consumer detriment if this type of investment were recommended to investors in an 
inappropriate way.
Affinity was in contact with Gaudi about Affinity investments in 2013.  Gaudi carried 
out some checks on Affinity and the directors of that company.  It met with them and 
considered the investment proposal.  Gaudi noted the following in August 2013 as 
part of a review of the Affinity investment: 
Stated Risk Factors
-No operating history
-Dependence on key personnel
-Funding and gearing  seeking a range of sources or capital
-Potentially limited investment opportunities and competition for these and 
tenants
-A range of other standard issues relevant to the property sector e.g. valuation 
movements, defaults and vacancies, interest rates, liquidity etc.
And it noted the following points:
Key mitigants
It has been stated by [Gaudi] that all applicants will need to receive advice 
from an authorised firm / individual to include pension and investment advice.  
Identity of the adviser is awaited so we can discuss target market / distribution 
plans / appropriateness
Soon after this Gaudi met with an adviser I will call Mr C.  It was noted that he was in 
the process of become an appointed representative of 2Plan.
Gaudi noted the following as part of its review of the Affinity investment:
At the conference call  the two key questions that were raised were around 
Affinitys financial model and the advice process which would accompany 
any sales (as it has been agreed that only cases that had been through an 
advice process would be accepted).
The response received on the above points were discussed.
oOn the financial model, Affinity has provided a rationale for the 
assumption of an 8% yield, that they would undertake a range of 
measures to add value to investments through a range of measures which were documented to us, confirmation of their 
assumptions over costs of gearing and the fact that they had not 
assumed any rent inflation.  Whilst these answers were 
straightforward they did confirm that the model had not been 
subject to sensitivity testing.  Our analysis was that it would 
become unviable under extreme economic circumstances, which 
would be possible if there were a repeat of the 2009 economic 
crisis.  Given the other answers and the fact that [name of 
accountancy firm] had verified the model, the financial aspects of 
the proposition were deemed to be acceptable albeit this was 
categorized as a high risk consumer investment.  Therefore, the 
sales approach including advice and ensuing customer 
understanding of the risk, would be key to our deciding to proceed.
oWith regards to the advisory process it had been confirmed that an 
adviser, [Mr C], was in the process of gaining AR [appointed 
representative] status with 2Plan and he would be responsible for 
advice on both the pension and investment.  He further confirmed 
that a rigorous 2 Plan mandated risk profile exercise would be 
undertaken and that these would be provided to us for as long as 
required. Further due diligence was undertaken on the adviser and 
nothing untoward was discovered.
A discussion of the risks to both investor and [Gaudi] then took place.  From 
the investors perspective it was considered that the due diligence that had 
been undertaken and the fact that all cases would be advised including a risk 
profiling exercise, that the investment would be approved.  From a Gaudi 
perspective [name given] outlined the monthly monitoring that he felt was 
necessary should the investment be approved and it was agreed that this 
was necessary and should be reviewed.
Given the above it was agreed that the investment should be approved
I have also seen evidence that Gaudi checked the nature of the investment and was 
concerned to make sure the investment was not an unregulated collective investment 
scheme (UCIS).  And that it had decided to reject all UCIS investments. 
It is clear from the above that Gaudi had given the Affinity investment careful thought, 
and considered it acceptable for its SIPP in certain circumstances only. Those 
circumstances were when there had been advice to the client.  So it follows that if no 
advice was given, as with UCIS, Gaudi intended to reject such applications.  And it 
seems reasonable and consistent with the note to say that Gaudis condition would or 
should only be met where Gaudi reasonably thought that an appropriate advice 
process had been followed by an authorised adviser.
That is not to say that Gaudi considered itself under an obligation to check the 
suitability of the advice given to individual clients.  It was concerned that there was a 
process in place under which it was likely that suitable advice would be given but that 
the adviser would be responsible for the suitability of the advice.
It was consistent with Gaudis role as non-advisory SIPP operator to set 
requirements for the investments it would allow in its SIPP and the evidence 
indicates Gaudi considered it could reject applications that did not meet its 
requirement without giving investment advice to the individual member or potential 
member. I have not seen anything to show that the Affinity Bond had to be set up in 
conjunction with a dealing account with SVS.  But that said, as I discuss below, it is 
clear that an arrangement developed under which the Affinity Bond was 
recommended by BlueInfinitas to investors in conjunction with the SVS account and 
the granting of DFM powers to SVS. 
As I understand it, Affinity later changed its name to Anilana International 
Developments and Anilana appointed liquidators in May 2020.  I will, for 
convenience, continue to refer to the investment as the Affinity Bond even if its name 
changed later. As I understand it the Affinity Bond 1 has failed and is now worthless.
The adviser  BlueInfinitas
When responding to the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Gaudi said, 
in its letter dated 8 February 2019:
The adviser was responsible for all investment decisions on behalf of the 
client.  They were also responsible for physically executing those investment 
decisions.
Those investment decisions comprised a recommendation to invest in an 
unlisted bond called Affinity Series 1.  Our due diligence files in respect of this 
investment were inspected by the FCA during the Third Thematic Review and 
we were told that this due diligence was of sufficient standard to enable us to 
continue to accept investment in this bond
Despite our due diligence, due to the unlisted nature of the bond we 
presented specific risk warnings to the client regarding these and asked him 
to confirm that he understood the risks before we accepted this business.
Due diligence in respect of BlueInfinitas
In October 2013 Gaudi was in contact with an adviser I will call Mr B in relation to 
BlueInfinitas introducing or referring business to Gaudi.  Gaudi has, on another case, 
provided copies of documents recording its due diligence in respect of Mr B.
Mr B is not the adviser, Mr C, referred to above, ie the adviser Affinity had introduced 
to Gaudi and with whom it had discussed his approach to advice relating to Affinity 
and who was recorded as planning on joining 2Plan.  That adviser did however later 
become an adviser at BlueInfinitas and was the adviser in this case.  But Mr C was 
not a registered individual with BlueInfinitas in 2013 when Gaudi was first carrying 
out its checks on BlueInfinitas.
Similarly Mr B was not referred to by Affinity when it was seeking Gaudis approval as 
an investment to be held in its SIPPs in August 2013.  Be that as it may, Affinitys 
plans seem to have evolved from the use of a single named adviser (Mr C) on whom 
Gaudi had made some checks to also include Mr B.
Gaudi has provided a copy of the FCAs Register from October 2013 which shows 
Mr B as authorised to advise on investments in relation to the firm in his own name. 
I have also looked at the FCA register.  It shows Mr B had been an adviser with True 
Potential in 2011-2012.  It also shows him as having his own directly regulated firm in 
his own name with a trading name BlueInfinitas from March 2012.  The register does 
not for example show Mr Bs firm as being an appointed representative of True 
Potential.A new adviser vetting checklist was completed by Gaudi in relation to Mr B in 
October 2013.
It was recorded on the form that Mr B had only been trading since July 2013.  Gaudi 
also noted the following:
He will be receiving referrals from Affinity as well as generating them from his 
own call centre functions.
All clients will undergo a full advice process on both pension + investment - 
quote My role is to advise each client individually based upon my standard 
advice process and my analysis of needs, objectives and attitude to risk.  
There is by no means a one size fits all assumption with regard [to] the 
investment and suitability for each client.
On 15 November Gaudi emailed Mr B as follows:
Thanks for sending over the material on some of the investments that you 
would wish to promote.
In order that we can successfully move forward I need to make sure that I 
have understood the situation correctly.  If not let me know.
If I understand it correctly:
you wish to offer all of these investment opportunities to clients on a 
fund of funds basis i.e. each client buys a little piece of each
you realistically expect to provide us with 50+ new clients every week
I have therefore reviewed the suggested opportunities in this light but also in 
the knowledge that the FCA is currently, perhaps for good reason, closely 
scrutinizing the entire SIPP market and holding providers to account for the 
consumer protection.
Consequently, whilst I could imagine us approving a fair number of the 
proposed investments when evaluated by their own terms, we feel less 
comfortable knowing that they will be packaged together and promoted as an 
acceptable asset to a very large and potentially disparate audience, 
particularly with the riskiness of the investment in mind i.e. the actual 
investments are only one half of the conversation in this instance, distribution 
is another.  Before proceeding further I would be grateful if you could provide 
me with a written explanation of how you will:
1. identify a suitable client
2. describe to me what a suitable target client looks like
3. ensure that the propose investment is suited to the clients needs 
taking into account e.g. age, maturity needs, risk profile, ability to 
accommodate investment loss etc.
4. ensure that the client is fully cognizant of the risk/rewards in general 
and to them specifically 
5. protect the client against liquidity constraints especially in the event of 
e.g.death.Once we have understood the distribution model we can revisit the 
investments.
This may not be the response that you were anticipating, but hopefully 
you can understand the rational
Mr B replied as follows:
My responses are as follows
1. I am the preferred IFA for a number of investment firms, as such, I am 
being provided with leads they generate from a number of sources.
2. A suitable client typically has 50K plus in pensions, does not have an 
advisor and is not currently reviewing their pension.  The client will have 
expressed interest in investing for growth, exploring non mainstream 
investments and will be willing to take advice.  I am also dealing with a 
number of clients who have final salary schemes and want more from 
their pensions.
3. Clients must have 5 years until they require benefits, if not, the SIPP is 
tailored to ensure full access to PCLS and/or income when required.  In 
respect of losses, it is clarified in the ATR.  ATR results must be at the 
riskier end, if not, we have low cost SIPPs on TP with a full suite of 
regulated investments to recommend them.  TP now have a now [sic] cost 
SIPP with James Hay.
4. By focusing in the main on property, the investments I advise on tend to 
be easier to understand by the majority, and people have their own 
preconceptions.  The returns and exit strategies if the investment fails are 
explained, along with the time commitment to the investment required to 
achieve the returns.  I am looking to split the investments between 
different funds, with at least 30% in fully regulated investments.  Whilst 
this takes additional explaining to the client, it does help them appreciate 
the need for diversification and the potential for return can come from a 
number of sources.
5. The 30% in regulated and cash investments will aid a spouse looking to 
take benefits, income generated by the investments will aid ongoing 
income requirements.  If a death payment has to be made, then the costs 
associated with disinvestment must be met, clients are made awre of this 
point, however, most people prefer the chance of a larger pot as they plan 
on living, rather than the potential charges when they are dead.
I hope this helps.
I understand the reference to TP above are reference to True Potential.
On 20 November 2013 Mr B sent an email to Gaudi headed Business Model 
Information.  It explained that Mr B continued to work with True Potential, using its 
cloud-based system and compliance systems and support leaving him to 
concentrate upon the advice.
Mr B said,
The remote nature of True Potential has enabled me to set up admin teams 
in Poole and Manchester.  More importantly, it has given me the ability to 
employ an outsource paraplanning team.  The files are checked remotely in accordance with business submission procedures and processed if they meet 
the required standard.
The benefit to me of using this outsourced team is that the basis of the 
business model is to adhere to the submission process and not be pressured 
into submitting business; they will not deal with firms who do not comply with 
this and have their own PI insurance in place to guarantee their work.  I 
believe that this arms length approach helps me as the outsourced team will 
not be caught up in the culture on my business and will always provide a 
positive check and balance on the business submitted.  Introducers have no 
contact with the paraplanners, cannot chase through business and have to 
accept my process.
Another strength is that I am not partnered with any of the investments, I am 
happy to advise on them, but will not be dictated too [sic].  I take leads and 
assess each case individually, obvious no goes are favourable guarantees, 
DB schemes, and some instances where income/PCLS payments are 
required.  I am currently turning away over 10% of leads coming through an 
explaining to the introducers why, hopefully, this will mean a lower decline 
rate in the future.
I have also been able to put in place a portfolio approach when advising these 
clients.  Firstly, I want to see 30% plus going into regulated investments with 
the remainder being split between 2-4 of the unregulated propositions, giving 
a diverse pension investment.  Whilst I am happy with the investments, I feel 
on the scale I am giving it is sounder with this approach.  The potential for 1 
investment not to perform will have a smaller impact across the board, rather 
than a big impact on a potentially significant proportion of clients.  The 
investment companies see the logic and appreciate spreading smaller 
investments over a larger pool of clients will be just as lucrative for them.
Gaudi has also explained that it did not ask Mr B/BlueInfinitas for copies of its 
recommendation reports.  It did ask him about the remuneration he was taking so 
that it could provide illustrations on that basis.  
Gaudi has explained that it accepted business from Mr B/BlueInfinitas for about 18 
months until April 2015 when BlueInfinitas ceased trading.
During that period Gaudi received 332 applications from this adviser. None of the 
applications involved transfers from occupational pension schemes.  248 clients were 
placed into non-mainstream investments as part of a wider portfolio (the remaining 
investments being listed equities).
During the period Gaudi had around 2,000 applications in total and business from 
BlueInfinitas was less than 20% of that total.  
In my view Gaudi was right to have concerns about Mr Bs application to become an 
introducer of business to it.  In my view the information he disclosed showed a 
business model that seem to involve finding clients that were suited to his proposed 
investment model rather than finding solutions that were suitable to the clients 
objectives.  While this process can lead to satisfactory matching of needs to solution 
it starts with a solution in mind which is likely to lead to skewed outcomes.  It also 
involved dealing with clients who were introduced to him by unspecified introducers 
with little to no information about who those introducers were and how they worked 
and how they found their leads and what they said to them.BlueInfinitas seemed to be proposing to introduce large volumes of work to Gaudi.  In 
the event it did not make referrals at that rate. But 50 referrals a week would be over 
2,000 a year which was more than Gaudis total applications from all sources and 
ought to have raised concerns about the quality of such referrals coming from a new 
and relatively small adviser firm.  Mr Bs talk of admin centres in Manchester and 
Poole and an outsourced paraplanner team sounds similarly ambitious on the one 
hand but vague on the other and does not make clear to what extent those qualified 
and authorised to carry on the controlled function of giving investment advice would 
be involved in the process leading to recommendations of Gaudi SIPPs. 
Some of those clients apparently wanted to improve on (which would seem to mean 
transfer away from to seek better pension benefits) defined benefit pensions which is 
not generally a good idea.  Mr B seemed to give the impression in one email he 
would deal with such clients and in the other gave the impression that he would not.   
And while I note that in the event Gaudi did not accept this type of business from 
BlueInfinitas the inconsistency on the point should have been a concern.
So too should Mr Bs comments about liquidity especially in the event of the 
members death.  Investing 30% of the fund in liquid assets was not really going to 
provide a satisfactory solution and its comment about clients not being concerned 
about charges on death but preferring growth missed the point of Gaudis question.
Also of note is the receiving of referrals from Affinity and being the preferred IFA of a 
number of investment firms.  These points raise concerns about the independence of 
the advice Mr B/BlueInfinitas would be giving in relation to those investments.  
And to repeat a point made above, Gaudi knew or should have known that there was 
a risk of consumer detriment in relation to a higher risk investment such as the 
Affinity Bond if it was recommended to investors in an inappropriate way.
The DFM  SVS Securities
SVS Securities was a stock broking firm authorised to deal in, advise on, manage 
and safeguard investments.  In 2019 it went into administration and in 2020 assets 
formerly held for clients by SVS were transferred to ITI Capital Limited.  I will 
however continue, for convenience, to refer to the SVS shares in this case as the 
SVS shares regardless of whether they were later transferred to ITI Capital.
Gaudi says FCA handbook Notice 29 issued in 2015 said that an investment with a 
discretionary fund manager can be regarded as a standard investment provided 
arrangements were in place to ensure that it only invested in standard assets.  And 
Gaudi considers that it fulfilled these obligations.
In 2011/12 (ie more than two years before the events in this complaint) Gaudi had a 
business relationship with SVS.  Gaudi operated a SIPP marketed by SVS which 
Gaudi described as a straightforward arrangement under which SVSs clients would 
take out a SIPP and could then trade shares in a dealing account with SVS within the 
SIPP wrapper.  The intention was that SVS would act on an execution only basis.  
Gaudi became aware that the SIPP was marketed by SVS to some advisers for use 
by their clients.  This does not seem to have been part of Gaudis original 
expectations for their relationship.In May 2012 Gaudi became concerned that holders of the SVS SIPP were investing 
in a narrow range of shares and that SVS was corporate broker to all the companies 
concerned.  So this would give concerns about possible conflicts of interest. Also a 
number of clients had invested in shares in SVS itself which were not listed shares, 
and Gaudi had agreed with SVS that only listed securities would be held within the 
SIPP.  Again this also raises concerns about conflict of interests between SVS and 
its and Gaudis mutual clients.  And it should have been a serious concern that SVS 
had broken the agreement about the type of securities to be held in the SIPP  an 
agreement that was there (at least in part) for the protection of Gaudis clients. 
Gaudi started to investigate matters and found that advisers had seemingly been 
giving advice but were denying any involvement.  Gaudi was concerned and as it 
was unable to get satisfactory answers to enquiries it decided to stop accepting 
further business into the SVS SIPP.
Gaudi did not however cease doing business with SVS altogether.  As is clear from 
this case, by 2014 Gaudi was party to an arrangement in which it knew that 
BlueInfinitas was introducing clients to it in order for the clients to:
open a SIPP with it
open an account with SVS
invest in Affinity Bonds to be held in the SVS account
and invest in other securities in the SVS account in relation to which SVS was 
to be appointed DFM.
This arrangement was an existing arrangement in place at the time Mr Ns business 
was introduced to Gaudi as shown by:
The existing printed Gaudi SIPP application form which included the request 
to open a transactional account with SVS.
The provision of the SVS account application form, which included granting 
DFM powers, with the Gaudi application form, and the written 
acknowledgement of receipt of the SVS terms of business within the Gaudi 
SIPP application form.
The reference to Affinity Bonds within the Gaudi SIPP application form.
The reference to Affinity Bond as a pre-agreed investment in the Gaudi Terms 
of Business (according to Gaudis submissions).
The reference to both SVS and the Affinity bond in the Key Features of the 
EasySIPP (according to Gaudis submissions).
The reference to Affinity Bonds in the pre-prepared Gaudi headed note paper 
disclaimer letter signed on the same day as the SIPP application form and as 
part of the application process.
So this is not a situation where Gaudi just happened to receive an application to open 
a SIPP from a potential client who just happened to want to appoint SVS and Gaudi 
just went along with the clients request on a one-off basis.  This was a situation 
where Gaudi chose to be part of an arrangement (I use the term loosely not in any 
technical sense) in which it knew BlueInfinitas was recommending Affinity 
investments and the use of SVS, and Gaudi agreed to allow its SIPPs to be used as 
part of that arrangement.  This means Gaudi chose to continue to have a business 
relationship with SVS despite its reasonable concerns about SVS in 2012.As mentioned above, it is not clear that the Affinity Bond had to be held in a dealing 
account with a stockbroker.  And it is not yet clear to me when, how or why Gaudi 
agreed to be part of the arrangement in which SVS came to be DFM and the 
custodian to hold the Affinity Bonds recommended by BlueInfinitas.
In a different complaint involving Gaudi, BlueInfinitas and SVS, the investigator asked 
Gaudi why it allowed the consumer in that case to invest into SVS Securities in 
September 2014 after Gaudi had had concern about SVS in May 2012. Gaudi 
replied:
The issues with SVS related to their involvement in the selection of 
investments.  This is totally separate from a situation in which they were 
acting purely as custodian of investment directed by this adviser - who I would 
reiterate, made all the investment decisions.  To be clear [the consumer] did 
not invest into SVS securities  they acted purely as custodian and we had no 
concerns with their ability to perform this limited function.
I have difficulty with this explanation.  First SVSs role in 2011-2012 in relation to the 
SVS SIPP operated by Gaudi was supposed to be limited.  It acted as custodian in 
those cases.  SVS was not a DFM in that arrangement and it was not supposed to be 
giving investment advice.  Despite this, it turned out clients were investing in a small 
spread of AIM listed shares in companies for which SVS was corporate broker.  The 
natural suspicion is that somehow SVS was recommending the shares directly or 
indirectly to the clients (or using a formal or informal DFM mandate to make those 
investments).  In any event, these would have been higher risk, AIM listed, shares in 
relation to which SVS had a conflict of interest.  And an essentially unacceptable 
situation was compounded by clients investing in the unlisted shares of [SVS] itself 
contrary to obvious good practice and contrary to the agreement with Gaudi not to 
hold unlisted shares in the SIPP. Again this is a high-risk investment in relation to 
which SVS has a clear conflict of interest and where the risk of consumer detriment 
was high.  Gaudi was right to have concerns about what was going on.  And it says 
that as it did not get a satisfactory explanation it stopped accepting more of that 
business.
That decision is understandable.  But Gaudi ought to have been wary of doing any 
further business with SVS.  When given an opportunity to explain why it was willing to 
do further business with SVS Gaudi has said the business was different.  It has said 
SVS was only a custodian in 2014 in relation to the BlueInfinitas cases.  But that is 
not right.  In this case Gaudi had been given DFM powers.  Gaudi has said in this 
case:
it is our position that SVS were not acting on an execution-only basis 
and instead, were the Complainants investment manager.
So SVS was not acting purely as custodian.  It was in a position to make investment 
decisions for the client  a role in which Gaudi ought reasonably to have had serious 
doubts about the reliability and integrity of SVS.  It should have decided that as it 
could not be sure that SVS would do the right thing in 2012, and keep to an 
agreement it had with it about unlisted securities, it should have had very serious 
concerns about trusting it to do the right thing and act in its clients best interests in 
2014. The possibility of consumer detriment was just as great, if not more so, when 
SVS was appointed custodian and DFM of the Gaudi SIPP as it was when SVS was 
the custodian of the SVS SIPP operated by Gaudi.In 2019 The FCA published a First Supervisory Notice relating to SVS.  In effect the 
regulator closed SVS down to ensure an appropriate degree of protection for 
consumers. This followed concerns originally dating back to 2017 and 2018.  The 
concerns covered concentration risk, conflicts of interest and governance.  The FCA 
considered that SVS was not conducting its business with integrity and in compliance 
with proper standards, did not have competent and prudent management and could 
not demonstrate that it conducts its affairs with due skill, care and diligence.  
It is fair to say that the events the regulators concerns related to events that occurred 
after the events in this case and so could not have been something Gaudi could have 
taken into account in relation to Mr Ns application in 2014.  However the concerns 
Gaudi had in 2012 foreshadowed those events  the concerns about concentration 
risk, conflicts of interest and concerns about governance.  They show that Gaudi was 
right to have serious concerns in 2012.  And it should have continued to have those 
serious concerns in 2014 when Mr N applied for his SIPP.
My view so far
Looking at things in the round, as Gaudi should have done at the time, it is my view 
that Gaudi was in error in deciding to accept Mr Ns application.  Gaudi did have 
concerns about the Affinity investment and would only accept applications to invest in 
it if the member or potential member was advised.  For the reasons I have mentioned 
it should have been concerned about whether the business model of BlueInfinitas 
would mean that advice that was in the best interests of the client was being 
provided.  Added to those concerns should have been concerns about any process in 
which BlueInfinitas was recommending the use of SVS as having any involvement at 
all and especially in the DFM role given the serious concerns Gaudi had or should 
have had about that firm.  
These concerns about SVS could and should reasonably have caused concerns 
about any arrangement of which SVS was a part. 
Given the concerns Gaudi had about the possibility of consumer detriment in relation 
to the Affinity investment, and in relation to SVS, and which it ought to have had 
about BlueInfinitas, Gaudi should not have accepted Mr Ns application.  It is my view 
that in doing so Gaudi failed to act with skill, care and diligence, failed to take 
reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly with adequate risk 
management, and failed to act in its customers best interests or treat Mr N fairly.
Did Gaudi act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Ns instructions?
Gaudi argues it was reasonable to proceed with Mr Ns application because of the 
disclaimer he signed and that it was obliged to carry out his instructions by COBS 
11.2.19R.
Gaudi says it complied with its obligations under COBS 11.2.19R in acting on its 
clients written instructions to switch his pension rights and transfer funds to SVS 
which were subsequently invested in Affinity.  Gaudi says to decline to do so would 
have been akin to assessing suitability requiring Gaudi to investigate the full extent of 
Mr Ns financial circumstances etc. Gaudi did not have regulatory permission to carry 
on such work.
I do not agree.  Gaudi could have refused Mr Ns application without giving advice, or 
acting in a way that was akin to giving advice, just as it would have done if the application had instead involved a UCIS investment.  And such a refusal would have 
been consistent with its role as a non-advisory SIPP operator.
As the court made clear in the BBSAL case, COBS 11.2.19R is concerned with the 
method of execution of a clients order.  It does not regulate the question of whether 
or not an order should be accepted in the first place.
As I consider that Gaudi should not have accepted Mr Ns application, I do not 
consider it fair and reasonable for Gaudi to rely on the disclaimer Mr N signed saying 
he instructed Gaudi to make the investment and that he knew it was high risk etc.  
Things should never have reached that stage.  If Gaudi had acted in its customers 
best interests Mr N would never have been put in the position where he was asked to 
sign that disclaimer.
The FSCS claim
As mentioned above, Mr N has made a successful claim to the FSCS.   He did not 
however recover his losses in full. As part of that claim Mr N was required to assign 
his rights of action/complaint against third parties to the FSCS.  Those rights have 
been reassigned to Mr N by the FSCS and a condition of that reassignment is that 
Mr N is required to repay to FSCS the money it paid to him if he recovers redress 
from a third party.  In the circumstances no deduction should be made from the loss 
calculation referred to below to account for the payment received from the FSCS.
I went on to explain how I thought Gaudi should put things right.  And I invited Mr N and 
Gaudi to let me have any comments they wished to make in response to my provisional 
decision.
Mr N had no further comments.  
Gaudi does not agree with my provisional decision and solicitors made a number of 
comments on its behalf.  Gaudis points include:
There are two factual inaccuracies in the provisional decision:
oIt was not Gaudis policy only to accept applications to invest in Affinity where 
regulated advice had been given. It was Gaudis policy to accept applications 
for investment into Affinity where the applicant had either taken regulated 
advice or been introduced by a regulated introducer. 
oI referred to investment in the unlisted shares of Gaudi by SVS at one point 
when I should have said the unlisted shares of SVS.
The provisional decision discusses BlueInfinitas, and Affinity but does not conclude 
Gaudi was wrong to accept investments into Affinity or introductions from 
BlueInfinitas. 
This means that a conclusion must have been reached because of something about 
the complainant.  Is this a suggestion that Gaudi should have known the advice from 
BlueInfinitas was unsuitable?  Any consideration of the suitability for Mr N would 
have amounted to advice and Gaudi could not give such advice.
It is not fair or reasonable to conclude that the investment was unsuitable for Mr N in 
his circumstances.
In the circumstances it is not clear why Gaudi should have rejected Mr Ns 
application.  Gaudi is being judged on standards that have not been articulated.The criticisms regarding Gaudis continued relationship with SVS are noted but the 
causal connection between them and the loss complained of are not clear.
The complaint relates specifically to the Affinity Bond and SVS essentially acted on 
an execution-only basis in relation to that investment.
SVS was not acting as DFM in relation to the Affinity investment.  It is not fair or 
reasonable to conclude that SVSs role as custodian over the Affinity investment has 
any causal link to Mr Ns loss.  Nor is it fair or reasonable to conclude that Gaudi 
ought to have been concerned about SVS acting as custodian over the Affinity 
investment.
It is not fair or reasonable to cite Gaudis prior concerns over SVS as DFM as a 
reason Gaudi ought to have rejected Mr Ns application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in considering what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Gaudi says this complaint relates specifically to the Affinity investment.  However Mr Ns 
complaint has, from the outset been about his investments in the plural.  For example in 
his complaint form he said the majority of his investments have been delisted.
I note Gaudis comments about factual errors in my provisional decision.  I have corrected 
my error in referring to unlisted shares in Gaudi when I meant SVS when I quoted my 
provisional decision above. I apologise for my error and for any confusion I caused.
On the other point, Gaudi says it would accept applications to invest in Affinity where there 
was advice from a regulated adviser or where the business was introduced by a regulated 
adviser.  Gaudi may have later changed its policy but its clear that in August 2013, only a 
few months before Mr Ns application, Gaudi wanted to mitigate the risk of possible 
consumer detriment from investing in Affinity by ensuring applicants received advice from a 
regulated adviser.  
Even if Gaudi had changed its position by the time of Mr Ns application, that change does 
not alter my view of Mr Ns complaint.  The important point is that Gaudi had identified that 
there was reason to have some concern about the Affinity investment.  It was rightly 
identified by Gaudi as something in relation to which some caution should be exercised.  
And its Gaudis position that BlueInfinitas was not just an introducer but was Mr Ns adviser.  
That firm was identified as the adviser on the SIPP application form and Gaudi accepted the 
application on that understanding.  So Gaudi took the view that advice from BlueInfinitas was 
a mitigating measure it was happy with.  
I explained in my provisional decision why Gaudi should have had concerns about accepting 
business from BlueInfinitas.  My view remains unchanged.
The points to be considered do not however end there as they might if this were a situation 
where BlueInfinitas made a one-off application to Gaudi without more being involved.  As I explained in my provisional decision, by the time of Mr Ns application an arrangement 
existed that involved the introduction of clients to Gaudi to invest in Affinity and hold that 
investment in an SVS account with SVS to also act as DFM of other investments in the SIPP 
as well as holding the Affinity investment as custodian.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Gaudi should have had serious concerns about 
Gaudi based on its dealings with it in 2012.  Gaudi should, as I have said, also have had 
concerns about BlueInfinitas recommending Affinity investments.  When those 
recommendations were part of an arrangement in which SVS featured and was, or might be, 
given DFM powers, Gaudi should have decided that it was not an arrangement it wanted to 
be involved in.  It should not have agreed to be part of such an arrangement, and it should 
have refused to accept such applications to open SIPPs from BlueInfinitas.  
It is my view that when looked at cumulatively there was enough information for Gaudi to 
decide, and should have decided, that it would not accept business such as Mr Ns 
application in this case.  And this was information about Affinity, BlueInfinitas and SVS not 
information about Mr N and his own individual circumstances.  I do not say Gaudi was 
required to give advice to Mr N or consider whether the investments were suitable for him.  
But it was required in its non-advisory capacity as SIPP operator to act with skill, care and 
diligence, and take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly with 
adequate risk management.   And Gaudi was required to make its decisions consistent with 
those obligations when deciding what business it was prepared to accept. If Gaudi had made 
that decision as it should have done Mr Ns application would not have been made in the first 
place.  But if the application had been made Gaudi should have decided not to accept it.
In my provisional decision I said:
Looking at things in the round, as Gaudi should have done at the time, it is my view 
that Gaudi was in error in deciding to accept Mr Ns application.  Gaudi did have 
concerns about the Affinity investment and [initially at least] would only accept 
applications to invest in it if the member or potential member was advised.  For the 
reasons I have mentioned it should have been concerned about whether the 
business model of BlueInfinitas would mean that advice that was in the best interests 
of the client was being provided.  Added to those concerns should have been 
concerns about any process in which BlueInfinitas was recommending the use of 
SVS as having any involvement at all and especially in the DFM role given the 
serious concerns Gaudi had or should have had about that firm.  
These concerns about SVS could and should reasonably have caused concerns 
about any arrangement of which SVS was a part. 
Given the concerns Gaudi had about the possibility of consumer detriment in relation 
to the Affinity investment, and in relation to SVS, and which it ought to have had 
about BlueInfinitas, Gaudi should not have accepted Mr Ns application.  It is my view 
that in doing so Gaudi failed to act with skill, care and diligence, failed to take 
reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly with adequate risk 
management, and failed to act in its customers best interests or treat Mr N fairly.
That remains my view.  And it remains my view that Mr Ns complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr N to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Gaudis failure to carry out and act upon adequate due diligence checks before 
accepting Mr Ns SIPP application from BlueInfinitas or for not terminating the transaction before completion.
In light of the above, Gaudi should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr N would be in if he had not transferred from his existing 
pension. In summary, Gaudi should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr N has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Affinity Bond and the SVS shares if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ns pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr N direct. In either case the payment should take 
into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay Mr N £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Gaudi should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr N has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Gaudi should work out the likely value of Mr Ns pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left it where it was instead of transferring to the SIPP. Gaudi should ask 
Mr N's former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer value had he not 
transferred his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index should be used to calculate 
the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have 
been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr N has suffered. The Affinity Bond and 
SVS shares should be assumed to have no value.
2. Take ownership of the Affinity Bond and SVS shares
Gaudi should take ownership of the Affinity Bond and SVS shares.  If Gaudi is unwilling or 
unable to purchase the investments the actual value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purposes of the above calculation. 
And Gaudi may ask Mr N to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP may receive from the investment(s). That undertaking should allow for the 
effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr N may receive from the investment(s) and 
any eventual sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. Gaudi will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
3. Pay compensation to Mr N for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr N has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the 
compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for 
the income tax relief Mr N could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ns marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr N may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr N direct. But had it been possible to pay 
the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, 
the compensation for the loss paid to Mr N should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Ns marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr N is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction 
in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr N would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of 
the total amount.
4. Pay Mr N £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr N has been caused distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension benefits. Mr 
Ns pension is now worthless.  This is money Mr N cannot afford to lose and its loss will 
naturally have cause him much distress and inconvenience.  I consider that a payment of 
£500 is appropriate to compensate for that.
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP and the SIPP has to remain open for that 
reason Gaudi should pay Mr N an amount equivalent to five years of future fees to ensure it 
is unlikeley Mr N will have to pay further fees for holding the SIPP.  Five years should allow 
enough time for any issues with the investments to be dealt with and for them to be removed 
from the SIPP.  As an alternative to this Gaudi can agree to waive any future fees which 
might be payable for Mr Ns SIPP.
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Gaudi 
receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision 
to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
My final decision
Your text here For the reasons I have set out above I uphold Mr Ns complaint against Gaudi 
Regulated Service Limited should be upheld and it should pay Mr N fair redress as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman