DRN-2985827
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) increased the 
credit limit on his account when such increases werent affordable for him.  
What happened
Mr H opened an Amex credit card account with an initial credit limit of £5,000. Amex 
subsequently increased the credit limit on the account several times during the lifetime of the 
account, up to a maximum of £30,000. Mr H wasnt happy about this, and especially with the 
credit limit increases from December 2014 onwards, when Amex increased the credit limit on 
his account from £16,200 to £30,000 in the space of 18 months, which he felt hadnt been 
affordable for him. So, Mr H raised a complaint.
Amex looked at Mr Hs complaint. They noted theyd undertaken checks into how Mr H had 
managed his account with them up to the point that they were offering the credit limit 
increases, and had also obtained information from credit reference agencies so as to 
undertake further checks into Mr Hs wider financial position, none of which had given them 
cause to consider that the credit limit increases being offered to Mr H might have been 
unaffordable for him at those times. Mr H wasnt satisfied with Amexs response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Amex hadnt provided this 
service with the information theyd assessed regarding Mr Hs wider financial position before 
offering the credit limit increases to him. Our investigator also noted that, while Mr Hs 
account management in the times leading up to the credit limit increases appeared non-
problematic, a review of Mr Hs credit file did suggest that Mr H might have been 
experiencing financial difficulty at those times, such that the credit limit increases being 
offered to Mr H shouldnt have been considered as being affordable for him. Because of this, 
our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Hs favour.
Amex didnt respond to the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that, before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, that the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Amex say that they did that here and confirm that they reviewed how Mr H had maintained 
his Amex account before each credit limit increase as well as obtained information from a 
credit reference agency to better understand Mr Hs wider financial position at those times. 
Amex have also confirmed that there was nothing resulting from any of these checks which 
they feel ought to have given them cause to suspect that the credit limit increases that they 
were offering to Mr H might have been unaffordable for him.
I can appreciate Amexs position here, and having reviewed the account statements 
provided by Amex Im satisfied that there was nothing evident from how Mr H had managed 
his Amex account that ought reasonably to have given Amex any cause to consider that Mr 
H might have been in financial difficulty at the times of the credit limit increases.
Unfortunately, Amex havent provided this service with records of the external information 
that they gathered via a credit reference agency which they then assessed in order to gain a 
better understanding of Mr Hs wider financial position at the times of the credit limit 
increases. This makes it very difficult to verify Amexs claim that there was nothing resulting 
from this information that should have given them reason to suspect that Mr H might be in 
any form of financial difficulty at those times.
In their review of this complaint, our investigator felt that that information that Amex would 
have gathered regarding Mr Hs wider financial position should have given Amex reasonable 
cause to consider that Mr H might be experiencing financial difficulties such that further 
inquiries were warranted. And the reason our investigator felt this way was because a review 
of Mr Hs credit file showed that Mr H had an existing credit account with another provider 
with a balance of approximately £15,000, as well as some ongoing hire purchase 
agreements.
I can appreciate our investigators position here, but Im not convinced that these facts  that 
Mr H had external credit of £15,000 as well as some hire purchase agreements  should 
necessarily have given Amex cause to consider that the credit limit increases might not be 
affordable for Mr H. And the reason I say this is that its evident from Mr Hs credit file that, 
while he did have an existing external credit balance of approximately £15,000, he hadnt 
missed any payments towards that balance or exceeded the credit limit of that account such 
that there was any adverse information reported to his credit file by the other credit provider.
Additionally, while Mr H did have some hire purchase agreements in place, such agreements 
arent unusual and arent usually considered as being indictors of potential financial difficulty, 
especially when its the case, as it was here, that these agreements are also being repaid 
without incident and without incurring any form of adverse reporting from the hire purchase 
agreement providers.
Considering these points, its difficult for me to conclude anything other than that, while Mr 
Hs credit file did demonstrate that he had existing credit commitments, it also appears to 
demonstrate that Mr H was managing those commitments responsibly and without incident. 
And its notable that Mr Hs credit file also doesnt include any other forms of adverse 
reporting or show that Mr H was using short-term loan providers or anything else that can 
reasonably be considered as being an indicator of potential financial difficulty at that time. 
However, it doesnt follow from this that I feel that there was no information available to 
Amex that should have given them cause to question whether the credit limit increases they 
were offering to Mr H were appropriate. 
In particular I feel that the size of the credit limit increases being offered to Mr H from 
December 2014 onwards, when taken into consideration along with Mr Hs other external 
credit commitments as described above, meant that the checks that Amex were undertaking 
were no longer reasonable or proportionate in regard to the amount of credit being offered.As mentioned previously, what this service would expect would be that, before offering a 
credit limit increase to Mr H, Amex would have undertaken reasonable and proportionate 
borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to Mr H was affordable for 
him at that time. 
With regard Mr Hs initial application for credit  for instance  Im satisfied that the checks 
that Amex undertook at that time, including confirming Mr Hs income and expenditure and 
obtaining information from a credit reference agency  met the criteria for being reasonable 
and proportionate borrower focussed checks. And one reason I say this is because of the 
comparatively low level of credit under consideration to be offered to Mr H at that time.
But with regard the credit limit increases from December 2014 onwards, not only is the 
amount of credit being offered to Mr H considerably higher, but that credit amount would sit 
alongside Mr Hs other known credit commitments  as would have been evident from any 
report Amex obtained from a credit reference agency  and so it would be expected by this 
service that Amex would also have updated their understanding of Mr Hs income and 
expenditure at those times, so as to confirm that their understanding of what Mr H might be 
able to afford remained valid.
But I cant see that Amex did this, and I dont feel that the checks that Amex did undertake  
relating to Mr Hs account balance and the review of information obtained from a credit 
reference agency  meet the criteria for being reasonable and proportionate in light of the 
larger amount of credit under consideration at those times.
Furthermore, Mr H has confirmed to this service that he was experiencing personal and 
financial difficulties during this period, and so had it been the case that Amex undertook 
additional checks above and beyond the checks that they did undertake, as I believe that 
they should have done and which I feel should have included contacting Mr H directly, Im 
satisfied that it would likely have been the case that Amex should have concluded from 
those further checks that the Mr H might not have been able to afford any further credit such 
that the credit limit increases under consideration shouldnt have been offered.
It follows from this that Ill be upholding this aspect of Mr Hs complaint and instructing Amex 
to undertake corrective action accordingly. Where a complainant has had the benefit of 
borrowed money  as Mr H and the approved persons on his account have in this instance  
it will almost always be the case that this service will consider it fair that the borrowed 
balance should be repaid. And I can confirm that this is the case here. However, I will be 
instructing Amex to reimburse to Mr H all interest, fees, and charges accrued or incurred on 
the relevant portion of the balance on the account from the point of the credit limit increase in 
December 2014 onwards, as well as to amend the reports theyve made to Mr Hs credit file. 
Im aware that Mr H is also unhappy with how Amex handled his complaint initially and with 
the clarity of information provided to him by Amex following Mr H informing Amex that he 
was experiencing financially difficulties. However, Amex have upheld these aspects of Mr 
Hs complaint themselves and have apologised and paid compensation to Mr H totalling 
£155, and Im satisfied that Amexs response to these two aspects of Mr Hs complaint do 
represent a fair and reasonable resolution. As such, I wont be instructing Amex to take any 
further action in these regards. 
Putting things right
Amex must reimburse to Mr Hs account all interest, fees, and charges accrued or incurred 
on Mr Hs account from the point of the credit limit increase in December 2014 onwards for 
any portion of the balance on the account above the credit limit amount prior to that 
increase.If these reimbursements result in a cash balance in Mr Hs favour, this must be paid to Mr H 
along with 8% simple interest, calculated from the date of the transaction to the date of 
payment to Mr H.
Conversely, if following these reimbursements, a cash balance remains outstanding for Mr H 
to pay, Amex should contact Mr H to arrange a suitable interest free repayment plan based 
on what Mr H can reasonably afford to pay. Any agreed payment plan should include regular 
reviews, if appropriate.
Amex must also remove all adverse reporting to Mr Hs credit file from December 2014 
onwards.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against American Express Services Europe 
Limited (Amex) on the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman