DRN-3783462
The complaint
Mr E complains Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited (Niche) gave him unsuitable
advice to transfer the benefits from his defined benefits (DB) scheme with British Steel
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says this caused him a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Es employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to
a personal pension arrangement.
Mr E was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He wasnt sure what to do and so, based on what
hed heard from colleagues, he contacted independent financial adviser Niche. Mr E met
with Niche in 2017 and it gathered information about his circumstances and objectives.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017, and was later extended to 22 December 2017.
In November 2017 Niche advised Mr E to transfer his BSPS to a personal pension. It said 
this would allow Mr E to achieve his objectives of control and flexibility of income, having the
option to retire and drawdown income at age 55, and better death benefits for his wife and
children. Mr E accepted this advice, so £375,872.66 was transferred from the BSPS to his
new personal pension.
In 2022 Mr E complained to our Service that Niches advice was unsuitable and had caused
him a financial loss. Our Service passed his complaint to Niche. In its response to Mr Es
complaint, Niche essentially said it had undertaken a full financial advice process with Mr E,
considered all his available options and explained the risks and benefits to him.
Unhappy with Niches response, Mr E asked our Service to investigate. He told us hed only
thought to retire earlier after Niche advised he could retire at about age 55 or 57 with a fund
of approximately £750,000. And Niche had suggested he could drawdown his pension funds
flexibly. Mr E said Niche led him into his objectives, and should have advised him to transfer
into the BSPS2 instead. Mr E was now age 49 - he said hed not retired yet and it depended 
on his pension fund, and he might need to keep working past age 60.
Niche provided our Service with documents from the time of the advice.
This complaint came to me for consideration. On 6 September 2022 I issued my
provisional decision. In summary, I said I appreciated Mr E was motivated to transfer out of 
the BSPS, and that having control and flexibility of income, the option to retire and drawdown 
income at age 55, and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension would have sounded attractive to Mr E. But Niche wasnt there to simply arrange 
what Mr E might have thought he wanted  it was instead obliged to give him an objective 
picture and to recommend what was in his best interests.
I said Niches advice to transfer was unsuitable. Because it meant Mr E was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, and was very likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits. And there were no reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this - Mr E 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme based on an insubstantial wish to 
retire at 55 and have control and flexibility of income. And the potential for higher death 
benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. I said Niche 
should have advised Mr E to opt into the BSPS2, given his particular circumstances and lack 
of certain retirement plans, and the more advantageous annual indexation of his pension 
when in payment under the BSPS2. I thought Niche should compensate Mr E for the 
unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology, and using the benefits available to Mr E through the BSPS2 at age 65 for 
comparison purposes.
Mr E said he had no further comments or evidence to provide. Niche said it intended to 
respond to my provisional decision and our Service gave Niche further time to do so. 
However, Niche didnt provide anything further.
Our Service then contacted Mr E and Niche to explain that Mr E could choose to have any 
redress calculated now in line with the regulators current guidance in FG 17/9, or could 
instead choose to wait for any new guidance/rules to be published by the regulator as 
expected in early 2023. Our Service gave both Mr E and Niche additional time to respond 
about this if they wanted to. Mr E had some questions, and our Service directed him to the 
regulators guidance. But ultimately, neither Mr E or Niche responded further about this.
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niches actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Niche should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Es 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr E was 44 at the time of the advice. Niches suitability report says Mr E was in good health
and wanted the option to retire at age 55 if possible and enjoy his funds while he had his
health. It said the BSPS had a protected retirement age of 50 and transferring out of the
BSPS would mean Mr E lost this benefit. But that Mr E had ruled out taking early retirement
within the BSPS because of the early retirement reductions that would apply before the
BSPS normal retirement age of 65.
Niche may argue its advice was suitable at the time because Mr E was taking advantage of
a generous CETV he might not have been able to benefit from again. It may be that the
CETV was generous at that time. Nonetheless, the suitability report said the investment
return required to match Mr Es current pension (critical yield) was 5.87% per annum. It said
this was based on a CETV of £364,002.99. I note the suitability report had earlier said the
CETV was £375,872.66 and this higher CETV is also used in Niches pension transfer
report. The pension transfer report said a CETV of £375,872.66 gave a critical yield of
11.48% for age 55 and 5.87% at age 65. And it said that if Mr Es DB scheme moved to the
PPF, the critical yield required to achieve the same level of benefits was 3.63% at 65 and
5.86% at 55.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and
was 4.5% a year for 20 years to retirement and 3.8% a year for 10 years to retirement. For 
further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% a year.
I've taken this into account, along with Mr Es moderately cautious attitude to risk and also
the term to retirement. If Mr E transferred out of the scheme it was possible he couldve
matched the benefits available to him under the PPF if he retired at age 65. But, even if the
CETV was perhaps generous at that particular time, there would be little point in Mr E giving
up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, thesame level of benefits outside the scheme. And given Mr Es wish to retire at 60, or at 55 if
possible, and the applicable critical yields being higher than both the discount rate and the 
regulators middle projection rate, I think he was likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his 
moderately cautious attitude to risk.
It appears Niche accepted this. The suitability report said, Therefore, based on this, and
making a comparison on a like for like basis, my advice would be not to transfer the pension
as you are likely to be worse off in retirement. But it went on to say However, as you have
advised me that you wish to use your pension in an entirely different manner, to that set out
by the rules of the [BSPS], I would be happy to give you a positive recommendation to
transfer the pension for the following reasons: These reasons were related to Mr Es other
objectives as recorded in the suitability report, which Ill return to later.
Its important to note that advice has to be clear and not misleading. Niche may argue its
advice was clear and not misleading. But I note the suitability report implied Niche didnt
think Mr E should go ahead with the transfer despite still advising him to do so. Regardless
of the warnings Niche set out in the suitability report, Niche advised Mr E to transfer his
pension even though this would leave him worse off in retirement in pure financial terms.
And while Mr E might have expressed a wish to retire at age 55, I dont think this was his
certain plan. I say that because the suitability report and the other documents Niche
prepared at the time of the advice dont record any material reason for him to retire at age
55. And the data capture form actually said Mr E wanted to retire at 60. Also, I think most
people would express a desire to retire early if asked. However, it was Niches role to
determine whether that was feasible or whether it was in Mr Es best interest.
If Mr E did genuinely intend to retire at age 55 then I think Niches advice ought to have been
not to transfer out of the BSPS. This is because the critical yield increased to 11.48% if he
retired at that age, and given Mr Es attitude to risk, that was very unlikely to be achieved.
Moreover though, Mr E was 44 at the time of the advice, so he still had many years to think
about his retirement plans. Therefore, I dont think he needed to make a decision to transfer
out of the BSPS at that time, particularly when the BSPS2 provided him with a similar level
of benefits and hed still have the option of transferring out of that scheme nearer to his
desired retirement age if he needed to. Overall, I dont think Mr E shouldve been
encouraged to make an irreversible decision that would undoubtedly leave him worse off in
retirement.
I should say here that the critical yield figures Ive referred to above are based on the 
existing scheme benefits. But remaining in the scheme wasnt an option; Mr E had to choose 
to opt into the BSPS2, move with the existing scheme to the PPF or transfer to a personal 
arrangement. By the time the advice was given, the details of the BSPS2 were known. So, 
the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve formed the basis of the advice 
so Mr E was able to make an informed decision. I note that Niche did produce another 
analysis based on the BSPS2 benefits in a pension transfer report dated 12 December 2017 
(after the advice was given). Although the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits are 
lower, they are not substantially lower such that it wouldve made the transfer financially 
viable. Mr E was still unlikely to match, let alone exceed, the BSPS2 benefits at age 55 or 
65. So, it doesnt make a difference to my findings here. 
Ive considered the cash flow forecasts produced by Niche, which Niche says shows that 
Mr E could meet his income needs if he transferred out of the DB scheme and would still 
have a pension fund worth £275,300 at age 100. However, I can see the cash flow forecasts 
are based on Mr E retiring at either age 60 or age 65, whereas Niches critical yield and
suitability report was based on Mr E retiring at either age 55 or age 65.And the sum left remaining at age 100 is only achieved by Mr E taking much less income
than he would be entitled to through the BSPS from his personal pension from age 65. In
fact the cash flow forecast shows Mr E withdrawing no income between age 60 and 66. So,
Im not necessarily persuaded that Mr E understood that hed need to take substantially less 
income from his personal pension and rely on his state pension to make his funds last. The
cash flow forecast is also based on net investment returns of 4% per year, meaning it would
need to be higher to cover the associated fees. And given Mr Es moderately cautious
attitude to risk Im not necessarily persuaded that such a return over such a long time is
feasible.
In summary, if Mr E had transferred to a personal pension he may well have been able to
match the benefits provided by the PPF if he retired at age 65 (the PPF critical yield at this
age was 3.63%). But given Mr E told Niche he wished to retire at age 60 or age 55 if 
possible, he was likely to be worse off by transferring to a personal pension. So based on
the above alone, this transfer wasnt in Mr Es best interest.
But financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. Other
objectives might mean a transfer is suitable despite providing overall lower benefits. And
Niche may argue its advice was given on the basis of achieving Mr Es specific personal
objectives. So Ive thought about whether Mr Es other objectives meant a transfer was still
suitable, which Ill now address.
Flexibility and income needs
The suitability report said one of Mr Es objectives was having control and flexibility over his
pension, including the option to draw funds while he had his health and from age 55.
Before making its recommendations, Niche completed a fact find and a data capture for Mr E
and his wife, to understand their circumstances. In terms of their assets, it recorded Mr Es
annual income was £38,971 and his wifes monthly income was £2,200. That Mr E had
£1,000 in savings, and another pension worth £500. Niche didnt record that Mr E had any
life or other insurance protection.
For liabilities, Niche recorded that Mr E repaid £129 each month for a loan. And that Mr E
and his wifes property was valued at £300,000, with an outstanding mortgage of £160,000
for which they repaid £900 each month - the fact find said the remaining mortgage term was
18 years.
Niche recorded that Mr E and his wife had a household monthly income of £4,400 and
monthly expenditure of £4,243. Therefore they had £157 disposable income each month and
theres nothing to suggest financial difficulties here or that their mortgage, their largest debt,
was unaffordable at that time or was at risk of not being repaid.
Mr E may have liked the idea of being able to draw down income as and when he wanted or
needed from age 55. But the documents from the time of the sale that Niche has provided
dont record any material need for Mr E to do so. And in fact, the cash flow forecast was
predicated on him working to age 60 and not taking any benefits until age 65. Therefore, I
dont think there was any material reason for Mr E to give up a secure, guaranteed,
escalating pension income in retirement for this reason.
I still think retiring and having the option to draw funds at age 55 was aspirational for Mr E,
and not his certain plan. But even if I thought it was Mr Es certain plan, which I dont, I think
this was achievable under the BSPS2. I say that because Niches suitability report says that
under the BSPS, Mr E had a protected retirement age of 50 and could take TFC of £80,802at age 55. And although not mentioned in the suitability report, Mr E was also able to take 
benefits at age 55 under the BSPS2.
Niches data capture for Mr E and his wife says their post retirement expenses totalled
£2,893 per month, so just under £35,000 a year. But as well as essential expenses, this also
included a total of £18,000 a year of what I think its fair to say were discretionary expenses 
that Mr E and his wife could choose whether to spend or not  this discretionary spending is
categorised in the data capture as general, clothing, holidays, savings,
socialising/entertainment, meals out/takeaways. There were also unspecified general 
loan repayments of £500 per month and loans costs associated with a hire purchase and a 
caravan that Im not necessarily persuaded wouldve continued into retirement.
Niches suitability report says the BSPS would give Mr E an annual income of £17,139 per
year from age 55 if he didnt take TFC. But again, these benefits were no longer on offer. So, 
Niche ought to have referred to the benefits available through the BSPS2 and the PPF. 
Under the BSPS2, Mr E could take an annual pension of £13,385 at age 55 or £21,756 at 
age 65. Even if it had it been Mr Es certain plan to retire and have a pension income at age 
55, I think his BSPS benefits would have provided sufficient income to meet his essential 
expenses. Mr E would also have additional income from his other pension. Niches fact find 
says this was worth £500 at the time of the advice, and Niches cash flow forecast says Mr E 
contributed 6% per year to this, with his employer contributing 10% per year. Based on this, I 
think its reasonable to conclude Mr Es other pension would be worth at least about £60,000 
by the time he was aged 55. Mr E could take 25% of this as TFC and couldve drawn down 
further sums if he needed extra income. There are also no details of Mrs Es pension 
provisions, that couldve also been used to meet any shortfall.
So, I dont think Niche should have advised Mr E to transfer out of the BSPS to have control
and flexibility that he didnt really need. Mr Es desire to access his pension didnt outweigh
Niches responsibility to provide him with suitable advice and act in his best interest. And
even if Mr E did in fact have certain plans to retire at 55 (which I dont think he did), I think he
couldve met his objectives by opting into the BSPS2 and supplementing his income with his
other pension.
Death benefits
Niche recorded another of Mr Es objectives as having better death benefits for his wife and
children. The suitability report said this included his wife benefitting from his residual pension
in its entirety instead of the 50% spouses pension under the BSPS. And his children being
provided for should anything happen to Mr E and his wife.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course most people would like their loved ones
to be taken care of when they die. And Im sure that the idea of leaving a large sum to his
family in the event of his death sounded attractive to Mr E, as it would to most people. But
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr E might have thought
it was a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits because of this, the priority here was to
advise Mr E about what was best for his retirement provisions.
Its important to note that a pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So
I dont think the potential for greater death benefits should have been prioritised over this. 
I say potential, because the sum left on Mr Es death was dependent on investment returns.
And if Mr E lived a long life or investment returns were poor, there may not have been a
large sum to pass on. I dont think Niche gave enough importance to the death benefits Mr E
already had with his existing pension  his wife would have received a guaranteed,
escalating spouses pension for life, which would have been valuable if Mr E predeceased
her.And if Mr E had wanted to leave a legacy for his children, or to leave more to his wife, which
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death,
then I think Niche should have instead explored life insurance more fully.
The suitability report says Mr E was in good health. And the documents Niche has provided
include quotations for Mr E regarding whole of life insurance. The suitability report doesnt
mention life insurance, but it seems likely this was discounted by Mr E because of the cost
(between £42.80 and £406.85 per month before underwriting). But I dont think that this was
a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr E.
Niche based the quote on the transfer value of Mr Es pension benefits, so it essentially
assumed that he would pass away on day one following the transfer. That isnt realistic.
Ultimately, Mr E wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his spouse or children,
which would be a lot less than this if he lived a long life. So, Niche should have asked Mr E
how much he would ideally like to leave to his children and/or wife, and how much he could
afford to contribute. Insurance on this basis was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide and
would have enabled him to leave a legacy without risking his retirement income.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr E. And I dont think Niche
did enough to highlight the value of Mr Es existing death benefits or to explore the
alternatives available to Mr E to meet this objective.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Niches fact find said Mr E wanted to review his options and make a decision before his
pension fell into the PPF, and that hed lost trust in his employer. Niches suitability report
said Mr E had lost faith in the BSPS. Niche may argue this meant Mr E very much wanted to
transfer away from the BSPS, and that it discussed the PPF option with Mr E.
I accept that when Mr E met with Niche, he was concerned about his pension and its
possible Mr E was inclined to transfer out of the BSPS because of these concerns. However,
it was Niches obligation to give Mr E an objective picture and recommend what was in his
best interest. Mr E was concerned about the BSPS moving to the PPF. But as Ive said 
above, if Mr E transferred his DB scheme he wasnt likely to be able to match or improve on 
the benefits hed be entitled to if the scheme entered the PPF, particularly if he retired early.
So, I think Niche ought to have reassured Mr E that the possibility of his scheme moving to
the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. Furthermore, the scheme moving to the PPF
was only one of the outcomes; by the time Mr E sought advice, the details of the BSPS2
wouldve been known and he had been given the choice to opt into the scheme. So, Mr E 
being able to join the BSPS2 shouldve allayed his fears about the PPF. And Niche 
shouldve reassured him that he could meet his retirement objectives in either scheme 
regardless.
Summary
I accept that Mr E had motivation to transfer out of the BSPS when he met with Niche. And 
I appreciate that having control and flexibility of income, the option to retire and drawdown
income at age 55, and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal
pension would have sounded attractive to Mr E. But Niche wasnt there simply to just
arrange what Mr E might have thought he wanted. It was obliged to really understand what
Mr E needed, to give him an objective picture and to recommend what was in his best
interests.And ultimately, I dont think the advice Niche gave to Mr E was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, he was very likely to obtain
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no compelling reasons which would
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr E shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the
scheme based on an insubstantial wish to retire at 55 and have control and flexibility of
income. And the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees
associated with Mr Es DB scheme. So, I think Niche shouldve advised Mr E not to transfer 
to a personal pension.
Niche may argue Mr E would have transferred even if Niche advised against it, either by
insisting with Niche or by using another independent financial adviser. So Ive considered 
whether Mr E would have gone ahead anyway, had Niche advised him not to transfer out of
his DB scheme. But Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr E was an insistent client or that
he would have approached another independent financial adviser. He was an inexperienced
investor, with a moderately cautious attitude to risk. And his BSPS pension accounted for the
majority of his and his wifes retirement provision. So if Niche had provided Mr E with clear
advice against transferring out of the BSPS that explained why it wasnt in his best interest, I
think Mr E would have accepted that advice.
Given Mr E was age 44 at the time of the advice and didnt have certain plans to retire at age
55, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more
favourable reduction for early retirement. Also, Mr E was married, and his wifes pension
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no
lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr E chose to do so). The annual indexation of his
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Niche
shouldve instead advised Mr E to opt into the BSPS2.
So, overall, I think Niche should compensate Mr E for the unsuitable advice, using the
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the above, it
is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 at age 65 that should be used for
comparison purposes.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr E, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Niches unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, Niche should use the benefits offered by the BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr E whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. He didnt make 
a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for any 
new guidance. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr E. 
Niche must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr E has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Es acceptance of my final decision.
Niche may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Es
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Es SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date Niche receives notification of
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr E.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Niche deducts income tax from the
interest, it should tell Mr E how much has been taken off. Niche should give Mr E a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr E asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Niche to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £170,000, I additionally require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full,
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £170,000, I would only require Niche
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr E any interest as set out above on the
sum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr E the balance. I additionally 
recommend that any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
If Mr E accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent
Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited should provide details of its calculations to 
Mr E in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman