DRN-2362537
The complaint
Miss B complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim made on her 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Bs car was declared a total loss following an accident. She agreed with UKI for it find 
her a replacement car under her policy terms and conditions. But it then sent her a cheque 
for its market value instead. She was then told that she needed to return her courtesy car, 
but she needed this for her work. Miss B was also unhappy that UKI didnt return all of her 
personal possessions that were left in her car when it was scrapped. 
UKI agreed that there had been failings in its explanations of what was happening with the 
claim and that there had been delays. It offered Miss B £300 in total compensation for this. 
But Miss B was unhappy that personal possessions had been lost. And she said she didnt 
have enough time to find a suitable replacement car before she had to return the courtesy 
car. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had made Miss B reasonably aware that it would have to settle the claim on a cash basis as 
it couldnt find a like for like replacement car. She thought this was in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. 
She thought the courtesy car had been provided in keeping with the policy terms and 
conditions and that UKI had reasonably extended this so that Miss B neednt leave work 
early to return it. She thought it wasnt UKIs fault that Miss B couldnt find a suitable 
replacement car. And she thought Miss B hadnt told UKI that any of her personal 
possessions were missing. She thought UKIs offer of £300 compensation for trouble and 
upset was fair and reasonable.  
Miss B asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a 
final decision. She said no one had checked with the salvage company for calls made by her 
father about the missing items.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B agreed with the investigators view about the replacement car and the courtesy car 
provision. Ive looked at how the investigator came to her view. I can see that UKI acted 
within the policy terms and conditions in paying Miss B the market value of her car and in 
providing a courtesy car. I also think its offer of £200 compensation for its communication 
failings was fair and reasonable. So I wont consider these issues further here. 
But Miss B remained unhappy that not all her personal possessions were returned to her. I 
can see that UKI disagreed that we could consider Miss Bs complaint about her lost 
possessions. But an ombudsman colleague reviewed this and decided that we could 
consider this complaint. So Ive looked to see what happened.
I can see that there were delays in UKI recovering Miss Bs possessions from her car. It 
offered Miss B £100 compensation for this, which I think was fair and reasonable. In 
December 2019, the salvage agent sent the possessions to Miss Bs address where they 
were signed for by her father. Ive seen a list of what was included. This didnt include any of 
the items Miss B later said hadnt been returned. Ive no reason to doubt that theyd been left 
in the car. 
But I think Miss B could then have told UKI that not all her possessions had been returned. I 
can see that UKI sent Miss B letters in December 2019 and in January 2020 about the 
salvage disposal after making several unsuccessful attempts to call her. I think UKI made it 
clear that it intended to dispose of the cars salvage, as Miss B had previously agreed. I think 
Miss B could then have told it about the missing items. Miss B also gave UKI feedback about 
its claim handling, but she didnt mention the missing items then. 
Miss B didnt tell UKI that there were missing items until March 2020. By then the salvage 
had been disposed of. Miss B said she had taken a step back during this time as she found 
the claim process stressful and time consuming. I can understand that, but I cant reasonably 
hold UKI responsible for any losses caused by this. 
Miss B also said that her father had called the salvage company. But, unfortunately, it 
doesnt have any records of these calls. So I havent any evidence to show that he then 
pursued any missing items. 
So I think UKI made it clear to Miss B that it was disposing of her cars salvage and gave her 
reasonable notice of this. It had returned to her some personal items collected from her car. 
But Miss B didnt point out that any items were missing until after the salvage had been 
disposed of. I think it was for Miss B to reasonably mitigate her losses by bringing any 
missing items to UKIs attention before this. So I dont think UKI is responsible for the 
missing items.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman