DRN-3833258
The complaint
Mr S complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited are holding him liable for three loans 
which he says he didnt take out. 
What happened
In 2016 three loans were taken out in Mr Ss name with Provident - £500 in April 2016, £600 
in July 2016 and £600 in August 2016. No payments were made to these loans.
Mr S received letters from a debt collection agency several years later, saying he owed it 
money for these Provident accounts. At that time Mr S contacted Provident to say he did not 
recognise the loans. Mr S thinks that someone he knows may have taken the loans out in his 
name  Ill call this person Miss A.
Provident reviewed Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. They thought, on balance Mr S 
likely consented to the loans  and therefore should be held liable for them. Specifically, 
Provident said:
Mr S had previous loans with Provident which had been settled
It had previously been told by Mr S in 2015 that it could deal with Miss A regarding 
his account
Mr S had spoken to Provident in 2016 about not being able to make payments to the 
loans
Mr S wasnt happy with Providents response, so complained to our service. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, they did not think it was 
reasonable for Provident to hold Mr S liable for these loans and so recommended that any 
record of the loans be wiped from Mr Ss credit file and the balances written off.
Provident did not respond to the Investigators findings so this case has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. 
A customer cant be held liable for a credit agreement they didnt consent to. So, I need to 
determine on balance whether Mr S consented to these loans. Having done so I dont think 
Mr S did  I say this because:
Ive seen the details Provident recorded when it opened the accounts in Mr Ss 
name. The email address given is clearly in someone elses name  apparently that 
of Miss A.
Mr S has provided bank statements which show his current account was operating 
well with a credit balance during this period, so theres no clear reason as to why he 
would have taken out these loans  which all had high interest rates.
Provident has said it spoke to Mr S about these loans in 2016 but has not provided 
us with any evidence to support that.
Provident has provided a phone note from 2015 which records that Mr S had said 
Miss A could talk to Provident about his accounts, but even if that is the case that 
would not mean Miss A was entitled to later open new accounts on Mr Ss behalf.
Each of these issues alone may not have caused me concern, but as a wider picture, this 
evidence gives me serious concerns about whether the loan accounts were legitimately 
opened by Mr S. And Providents lack of response to our Investigators findings means that 
no further evidence has been presented that might change my mind. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above Im not satisfied that there is adequate evidence to show 
that Mr S consented to these loans, so it follows that I do not consider Provident are entitled 
to hold Mr S liable for them.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Provident should:
Write off the loans opened in 2016 in Mr Ss name
Remove any reference to the 2016 loans from Mr Ss credit file
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman