DRN-3279141
The complaint
Miss F has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) handling 
of a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
Reference to AA includes its agents. 
What happened
Miss Fs car was damaged in an accident. In January 2021 AA instructed one of its approved 
repairers (the garage) to repair the car. Miss F wasn't happy with the standard of repairs and 
said the garage had done additional damage. She asked AA to put things right. 
Eventually AA arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. He found that 
additional damage had been done to it and that rectification work was required. The garage 
took the car back. But, when the car was later returned to Miss F, she remained unhappy 
with the standard of repairs. She complained. AA asked the independent engineer to inspect 
the car again. That inspection confirmed that repairs were still not up to standard. 
AA responded to Miss Fs complaint in July 2021. It acknowledged that its garage hadn't got 
back to Miss F, that AA had made a promise to return calls which didn't happen and for 
unnecessary delays. It noted that despite the involvement of an independent engineer the 
repairs still hadn't been completed to an acceptable standard and that it had resolved this by 
arranging for another repairer to carry out the rectification work required. To address the 
impact of its mistakes it paid Miss F £100 compensation. Miss F didn't think that went far 
enough and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Fs complaint. He didn't think AA had dealt with her 
fairly. He said it should pay her a further £400 bringing the total compensation to £500. AA 
didn't agree with our investigator's assessment of the complaint so its been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
Miss Fs car went in for repair in January 2021. And I note that she contacted AA and its 
garage soon after the car was returned to her in February 2021. I see she noted that the 
repairer had done additional damage to her car that wasn't there before and added that 
some of its repair work wasnt up to standard
Ive then looked at what happened after that to see if I think AA handled things reasonably 
and in a timely manner. I dont think it did. 
It took AA months to sort things out. While this was largely due to the inaction of the garage, 
the garage was acting as AAs agents and AA remains responsible for its actions. And 
during that period Miss F was having to constantly contact the garage and AA to chase for 
updates. But AA took no tangible action until almost three months later when it appointed an 
independent engineer. That engineer agreed that the garage had caused additional damage 
and needed to do further work to put rights its substandard repairs. But after it did so, the car 
still wasnt repaired to an acceptable standard. 
So, by the time AA sent its response to Miss Fs complaint in July 2021, almost five months 
had gone by since the garage first returned the car to Miss F in February. But it still wasnt 
repaired to the standard that she should have expected. 
During that period the garage and AA had let Miss F down on numerous occasions. Indeed 
Miss F had to contact AA regularly for updates without getting any meaningful replies that 
moved the matter on. I note that AA has itself acknowledged delays and failures to ring her 
back. 
AAs told us, amongst other things, that the situation with the pandemic caused delays 
across the repairing network industry at that time. That might be the case but I haven't seen 
any evidence that AA explained that this was the reason for the delays to Miss F. And I don't 
think the pandemic prevented AA from giving Miss F a useful update on what was happening 
for three months until it appointed an independent engineer. 
Further, even after AAs intervention with the garage, repairs remained substandard. AA only 
managed to sort matters out by referring the matter to another repairer. So, at the time that 
AA responded to Miss Fs complaint, around six months after shed first put her car in for 
repair, it still wasn't fully repaired. 
Miss Fs said that she found the gaps in AAs service over this period stressful. Shes told us 
that she went off sick from work and that the situation with AA added to her troubles. AA 
accepted that it hadn't got everything right and paid Miss F £100 compensation. But I don't 
think thats enough. 
The events Miss F complained about cover a significant period of time. She had to 
constantly chase AA and the garage to find out what was happening, usually without a 
worthwhile response. And a lot of this happened while she was unwell, and Miss F believes 
AA added to her troubles at an already difficult time for her. To address the impact of its 
failures in service I think AA should pay Miss F a further £400 compensation. Im satisfied 
that sum is fair and reasonable as it's in line with awards we make in other cases of similar 
seriousness.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Miss F a further £400 compensation to address her distress and inconvenience (making total compensation paid by it £500). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022
. 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman