DRN-4326201
The complaint
Ms S complains about problems shes had with accessing her Santander UK Plc account 
using her phone.
What happened
In July 2022 Ms S wanted to access her account using the app on her mobile phone to make 
some transactions with Santander. She found she couldnt do this though and didnt know 
why. When she spoke to Santander  it eventually told her that it was because her mobile 
phone was no longer compatible with its online systems. Ms S found herself in a position 
where she couldnt make the transactions she needed to because her local branch had 
closed too.
Ms S went to another branch, which told her that shed need a new more up to date phone if 
she wanted to use its app. So Ms S purchased one, but she was unhappy that she had to do 
this as she had no other issues with her old phone. She complained to Santander, but it said 
that it was a business decision to update its systems for security features which makes 
customers online banking safe. It apologised that she had to buy a new phone, but said the 
update wasnt something it could have changed.
Ms S wasnt happy with this so she brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into this and didnt think that Santander had made an error. They said 
that customers should make sure that mobile devices are compatible with the latest version 
of the online app. Santanders website gives that information and its confirmed by the terms 
and conditions too. They also noted that while Santander may have recommended mobile 
banking  it was for customers to decide on this and Ms S could still have accessed her 
account online, just without using the app.
Ms S disagreed and so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Ms S is unhappy here. She was advised by Santander to use a mobile phone 
and its banking app, only to find that this stopped being an option when Santander upgraded 
the app.
Having looked at whats happened here - I dont think that itd be fair to say that Santander 
has treated Ms S unfairly though. Santander may well have recommended that Ms S use a 
phone and its app for her banking  but that will have been because thats generally a 
convenient and helpful way for customers to access their banking in an easy way for them. It 
seems like this was working this way for Ms S for some time too.
But as Santander has explained, it has to upgrade and update the app for mobile phones to 
make sure that it is up to date with security features and fixes. Thats a reasonable 
explanation for why Santander had to make the changes it did. Those are also confirmed in 
the terms and conditions of Ms Ss account with Santander which explain that customers are 
responsible for maintaining the device they use for accessing its app. Santanders website 
also has information available about which operating systems customers will be able to use 
too.
So, even though I realise that it will have come as a surprise to Ms S that she couldnt use 
her app any longer and she was frustrated that she had to buy a new phone  I think 
Santanders position is clear here. The app will be updated and upgraded from time to time 
and customers need to make sure that they have a phone that meets the requirements of 
the app.
I think thats a fair position for Santander to take here. I say this because using the app is 
just one way that a customer can access their account. Ms S was free to use online banking 
without the app, telephone banking, or to attend a branch. I realise that the latter isnt 
particularly convenient for her, as her local branch has closed  but it does seem like she 
was able to visit another branch to try and resolve the issue she had here.
Ms S has confirmed that she has now purchased a new mobile phone. But I dont think itd 
be fair to hold Santander liable for the cost of that. I say this because ultimately it was Ms Ss 
decision to buy a new phone, rather than use the other services Santander offers customers 
to access their accounts. It seems like Ms S wants to use the app and this is her preferred 
method  in which case, Santander has been clear that customers may need to upgrade 
their phones in order to use this. So I dont think its treated Ms S unfairly here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman