DRN-3372265
The complaint
Mr M, through his representative, complains that the advice he was given by ReAssure 
Limited to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS)
was unsuitable.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 2 March 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why I wasnt provisionally minded to uphold 
it were set out in that decision. Ive re-produced the relevant sections from that provisional
decision here, and it forms part of this final decision.
The original advice given to Mr M was by a firm called Barclays Life Assurance Company
Ltd. This firm was later taken over by ReAssure Limited, and they are now responsible for Mr
Ms complaint. Ill refer to them as ReAssure Limited through this decision.
Mr M was advised to contract out of SERPS in April 1989. My understanding is that Mr M
took the benefits from it [the personal pension started to contract out] in 2008.
In 2020 Mr M complained, through his representative, about the suitability of the advice that
hed been given. It said, in summary, that the advice to contract out of SERPS was
unsuitable. It said it exposed Mr M to the risks of a significantly lower pension. The
representative said that Mr M wasnt properly informed of the inherent risks in the product
recommended, or of all the costs associated with the policy. It said if Mr M had been warned
of the risks he wouldnt have accepted the advice to contract out.
ReAssure Limited didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and it was referred to us. One of our
investigators considered it.
The investigator said that two of the main factors that were considered in deciding
whether contracting out was favourable were the investors age and their earnings. She said
Mr M was below the relevant age (known as pivotal age), and his earnings above the
minimum amount such that it was considered it would likely be beneficial to contract out. She
also said another factor to consider was whether Mr M had an occupational pension scheme
at the time hed contracted out, but shed seen no evidence that this was an option for Mr M.
The investigator said that there wasnt any documentation available from the time of the
advice. But given that Mr M had over 20 years to retirement date when he contracted out,
she didnt think investing in a managed fund was inappropriate.
Mr Ms representative said that Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. The
representative said that the investigator had only considered the pivotal age and earning as
criteria on which to judge the suitability of the advice given. However it said that a more
important factor was attitude to risk. It said the question was whether Mr M had been
informed that he was giving up valuable guaranteed benefits. It said the answer was no, and
if Mr M had been warned of the risks he wouldnt have wanted to take them. It also said it
wasnt good industry practice to invest all the contributions in a single managed fund.
Although it may have been common practice at that time, that didnt make it good practice,
as performance was dependent on a single fund manager.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To give some brief background, in the late 1980s the government decided to allow
individuals to contract out of the SERPS. It wanted to give individuals more choice, and shift
pension provision from the State to the private sector.
Where an individual contracted-out of SERPS using a personal pension, a proportion of their
National Insurance contributions were re-directed into a personal pension plan. The idea
was that these rebates, as they were known, would be invested, and build up a fund that
could be used to buy benefits that would otherwise have been provided by the SERPS.
One of the critical issues was to decide what level of rebate applied. If the rebates were set
too low, then the SERPS pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment
within the personal pension. If the rebates were set too high, then the government would be
paying more than it needed to, to offset the cost of its SERPS liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted-out individuals was set by the government after taking
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). In addition to the rebate level
suggested by GAD, the government added an additional 2% annual incentive payment that
would apply until 1993.
The rebate percentage level was set as standard for all. This meant it was more attractive
for younger individuals to contract-out than those who were older, as they had less time
before retirement to benefit from investment growth on their rebates.
The government gave no advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and
those for whom it was expected that contracting out would be beneficial. So the actuaries
at various pension providers carried out comparisons of the projected benefits from
SERPS against the personal pension arrangement (based on the regulators set
assumptions of likely future investment returns) to decide who would likely benefit. The
ages where the providers advice as to whether to contract out or not would likely be
beneficial were called pivotal ages. There was also a lower earnings limit which was used
to determine whether an applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting
out.
As the investigator said, at the time of contracting out Mr M was below the relevant pivotal
age, and his earnings were above the lower earnings limit. So on the face of it, against
these criteria, it would have appeared likely that Mr M would be better off at retirement by
contracting out of SERPS.
Mr Ms representative has said that one of the key factors that needed to be considered was
the risk involved in the transaction; that Mr M was giving up a valuable guaranteed pension
in exchange for a pension that could be lower. I agree that this was a risk presented by
contracting out. And as such the adviser was obliged to take risk into account in deciding
whether it was suitable for Mr M to contract out. He was also obliged to alert Mr M to the
risks presented by contracting out, which could ultimately lead to a lower pension.
However the difficulty here is that the advice was given to Mr M over 30 years ago. The
original advising company has been taken over, and Mr M took his benefits in 2008. Sotheres very little documentation available from the time that the advice was given.
Clearly, its very difficult to say with any reasonable degree of certainty exactly what was
and wasnt discussed about the risks of contracting out with Mr M. But where, as here, the
evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I have to make my decision on the balance of
probabilities; in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
ReAssure has now provided a copy of the plans Terms and Conditions which would likely
have been sent to Mr M at the time he started the plan. This does explain the plans charges,
and that at retirement date it would be the value of the units in the plan that would be used to
provide pension benefits.
However the Terms and Conditions would likely have been sent to Mr M after hed taken the
plan out. And theres no clear warning about the risks that his pension could be lower than if
he remained in SERPS.
Although a copy of the illustration isnt available, it was normal practice to provide an
illustration at that time. Given Mr Ms age, an illustration would likely have shown he would
get higher benefits from contracting out of SERPS, and I cant think of a reason why the
adviser would have been motivated not to provide Mr M with a copy. So I think its more
likely than not that an illustration was given to Mr M.
The regulator had specific requirements in connection with contracting-out of SERPS,
and its members had to provide illustrations in a specified way. I think the illustration
provided to Mr M would have shown that the amount payable at retirement date was
subject to the growth rates used in the illustrations being achieved.
Mr Ms representative has said that the advice to invest the contributions in a single
managed fund wasnt suitable. Whilst I accept that diversification is a well-known risk
management tool, the risks have to be considered in the context of the type of plan
arranged. We dont have information showing the make up of the fund. But generally,
these types of funds were invested in a spread of asset classes. The starting value of
the plan was zero, and it received rebates that were invested over time. Mr M could
have switched into a mix of funds if its size increased to the extent it was appropriate to
spread risk.
Mr M had over 20 years to retirement date, and ordinarily that would be sufficient time
to take some risk. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr M wasnt willing to
take some risks at the time, and in the circumstances, Im not currently persuaded that
the fund was unsuitable.
For the reasons Ive explained above, at the time that Mr M contracted-out in 1989 it was
thought  using conservative assumptions  that given his age and level of earnings, he
would likely be better off at retirement by contracting out of SERPS. The written
documentation doesnt show that Mr M was clearly warned that there was a risk that he
could get a lower pension by contracting out. So on the one hand, I think its likely that the
adviser would have presented contracting out in a favourable light.
However on the other, I think Mr M was likely to have been alerted that the benefits at
retirement date depended on the performance of the investments and the growth rates
shown in the illustration being achieved. This would, therefore, have indicated to him that
there were no guarantees.
Given Mr Ms age and earnings, I think it would have been reasonably considered that he
would likely improve on the benefits that he would otherwise have obtained from SERPS bycontracting out. Mr M wasnt guaranteed to be better off by contracting out of SERPS; there
was some risk involved. But in my view contracting out would have appeared to present a
relatively low level of risk at that time.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Mr M wasnt willing to take any risk. Taking all the
above onto account, and if the risks had been explained in the appropriate context, I dont
think, on balance, Mr M would more likely than not have made a different decision about
contracting out.
Overall, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think that contracting out was unsuitable 
for Mr M.
Accordingly, my provisional decision was not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I asked ReAssure Limited and Mr M to provide any further evidence and arguments that they
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision.
Both ReAssure Limited and Mr Ms representative said they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision not to uphold Mr 
Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman