DRN-2862421
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Zurich Assurance Ltd cancelled her life insurance policy following 
some missed payments.
What happened
In early December 2019 the monthly direct debit for Mrs Cs policy was returned unpaid from 
her bank. On the same day Zurich was notified that Mrs Cs bank details had changed. 
These two events at the same time meant that Zurichs systems didnt attempt the direct 
debit again.
In January and February 2020 Zurich wrote to Mrs C about the missed payments. Zurich 
wrote again in March 2020 to say that because payment had not been received for the last 
few months the policy had ended. 
Mrs C complained to Zurich saying that she didnt receive the January and February 2020 
letters and asked for her policy to be reinstated. Zurich said they sent the letters and couldnt 
be held responsible for the postal service and that as per the terms and conditions the policy 
had now lapsed. They went on to say that even if they did think they were at fault, which they 
didnt, it wasnt possible to reinstate the policy due to changes in the law since the policy was 
originally taken out.
Mrs C remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They looked at evidence provided by Zurich and 
were satisfied the letters had been sent. Mrs C disagreed saying Zurich were at fault for not 
making further attempts to take payment and for not sending mail in a manner to guarantee 
delivery. So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has provided a lot of information about her complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want to assure Mrs C that Ive read and considered 
everything shes provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised the information 
which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Zurich have explained that due to the December 2019 direct debit being returned on the 
same day they received notification of a change to Mrs Cs bank details their system 
suspended any further attempts to take payment. I can see why Mrs C is unhappy that no 
further attempts to take the direct debit were made and has asked for a further explanation 
about what happened. However its not my role to comment on how a business uses their 
systems, rather its to look at any impact on a consumer if an error was made. 
Zurich told Mrs C that ultimately its a customers responsibility to ensure that their premiums 
are paid. In essence I agree this is true, and the initial direct debit being returned wasnt the 
fault of Zurich. However Id expect Zurich to take further action in contacting a customer to 
make them aware of any such problems with unpaid premiums; such as sending letters.  
Mrs C said she never received letters and Ive no reason to doubt what she has said. But the 
decision for me to make here is whether Im persuaded that Zurich sent the letters, and 
therefore fulfilled their obligations to Mrs C, and not to decide whether they were received. 
This is an important distinction as a business cant be held responsible for any problems with 
post once it leaves their building.
Mrs C has asked for evidence of the actual posting of the letters, which Zurich doesnt have. 
Im not surprised by this, and neither is it unusual. When a large business sends letters there 
is rarely proof of actual postage of each individual letter, which would be impractical when 
you consider the sheer volume of letters being sent. 
In a situation like this I must come to a decision based on the balance of probabilities about 
what I think is most likely to have happened. And having reviewed the evidence Im 
persuaded the letters were sent. Zurich has provided screenshots of their system showing 
Mrs Cs policy and that letters were sent to her address at the time. Ive also seen a template 
of the letters which were sent. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied that on the balance of 
probabilities Zurich sent the letters to Mrs C. Thats not to say that Mrs C hasnt been 
affected by what happened; its clear she has as her policy has lapsed. However Im 
persuaded the letters were sent and that no errors were made by letting the policy lapse as 
premiums hadnt been received for several months. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman