DRN-2724475
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC placed restrictions on his trading account that it 
shouldnt have done and didnt provide the service it should have done.
What happened
From 2011 Mr B had a Barclays Stockbroker account linked to a non-UK Barclays current 
account. Barclays moved Barclays Stockbroker account holders to its new SmartInvestor 
platform in 2017. The SmartInvestor service wasnt available to non-UK residents outside of 
the European Economic Area (EEA) as from 2017. In 2019 Barclays decided that it would 
no longer provide its SmartInvestor service to clients outside the UK.
Mr B complained to Barclays in 2017 about the delay in him receiving funds from a share 
sale. One of the points that was established in that complaint was that Mr B couldnt 
nominate his existing bank account for his SmartInvestor account because it was a non-UK 
bank account.
In 2019 Mr B tried to set up a Direct Debit (DD) into his SmartInvestor account using the 
same non-UK bank account. He was told this wasnt possible because the account was a 
non-UK bank account. 
Barclays then wrote to Mr B separately on 30 September 2019 about SmartInvestor no 
longer being available to non-UK residents. The change meant that the shares he already 
had could remain in his account but that he would not be able to purchase additional shares. 
In effect he was limited to selling his existing shares as from 5 November 2019. 
Mr B then complained about the change to the service. Barclays initially provided a final 
response to the complaint in a letter dated 21 November 2019. This explained that Barclays 
had taken the decision to restrict what it did for non-UK clients. The letter didnt make any 
offer or indicate that Barclays had done anything wrong.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with the response and there was further correspondence between the 
parties. On 5 May 2020 Barclays wrote to Mr B setting out what had happened from 
2017with the writer stating she wanted to find a way to move forward and finally resolve 
matters. 
This led to an offer of £500 being made, which Mr B didnt accept. In a final response dated 
3 June 2019 Barclays repeated what it had said about what had happened since 2017. It 
said the offer was for the distress and inconvenience caused by the restriction to Mr Bs 
SmartInvestor account resulting from him having a non-UK bank account. It didnt agree that 
it should pay him the hypothetical amount that he would have paid into his SmartInvestor 
account between August 2017 and November 2019 as he wanted.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but thought that Barclays had dealt with it 
fairly. In summary she made the following points:
Barclays has reinvestigated the earlier complaint which is something we cant do, so 
she wont go over the previous findings.
We have no power to tell a business how to operate or get involved with business 
decisions that are in accordance with regulations and terms and conditions.
The decision by Barclays not to accept the DD in 2019 is the same reason the bank 
account wasnt linked to the SmartInvestor account in 2017. This is a business 
decision which was communicated to Mr B adequately.
Barclays can change the way it runs the service it provides so long as long it 
communicates this to clients properly and this is allowed for by the terms and 
conditions.
The decision to only offer SmartInvestor accounts to UK residents is a business 
decision we cant get involved with.  
She cant award redress where Barclays has done nothing wrong.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. In short, he made the following points:
Barclays has admitted that it didnt act in accordance with what it said the position 
was, but the investigator has said it didnt do anything wrong.
Its letter to him of June 2017 clearly stated that it would inform him if his account 
would be subject to restrictions, but it didnt inform him about any restrictions.
The information about restrictions referred to in the June 2017 letter was only 
provided in the letter dated 30 September 2019. This letter explained restrictions 
would apply going forwards from 5 November 2019 whereas it had applied those 
restrictions since August 2017.
In its letters dates 5 May 2020 and 3 June 2010 Barclays stated that when 
SmartInvestor was created clients with non-UK addresses outside the European 
Economic Area (EEA) could only sell and withdraw from their account but that clients 
within the EEA werent subject to any restrictions.
He has lived within the EEA since 2011 so they were wrong to place restrictions on 
his account.
He lost the opportunity of adding to his portfolio and Barclays should pay him redress 
of £13,572 for the period he was unable to trade - based on his average monthly 
purchase of shares before the restrictions were imposed.
The investigator responded and apologised for stating Barclays had done nothing wrong 
given it had accepted that it had. However, she said she thought the £500 Barclays had 
offered was fair and reasonable for the further inconvenience caused since the first 
complaint was dealt with. She said it wasnt for her to reconsider the issues that were dealt 
with in the first complaint, so she had only considered what had happened after May 2018. 
The investigator said SmartInvestor was available to Mr B from 2017 and the reason he 
couldnt use it was because he didnt have a UK bank account. She said Barclays had 
suggested he look elsewhere for a UK bank account and if Mr B had looked into this, he may 
have found not all the restrictions for his SmartInvestor account applied.
The investigator also said that Barclays hadnt prevented Mr B moving his investments 
elsewhere so that he could buy and sell shares, but she had seen no evidence he had tried 
to do so. She said it was a business decision to restrict access to SmartInvestor for all non-
EEA residents and then subsequently to restrict access for all non-UK residents. 
Mr B provided a further response in which, in summary, he said Barclays didnt know what it 
was doing and reneged on its duty to provide him with a trading account. He said that 
Barclays had told him that it had difficulty in regulating some clients bank accounts but that it 
made no sense that he was unable to transfer money from his non-UK account with Barclays 
to his SmartInvestor account. He said he had been transferring money from his non-UK 
account to other accounts in the UK without difficulty.
Mr B said Barclays has a history of inefficiency and he was initially offered £200 in the 
original complaint because Barclays agreed there was no reason that his non-UK bank 
account shouldnt be used as his preferred account. He said he didnt immediately leave 
Barclays on the outcome of the first complaint because its restriction of his account made no 
sense and nobody at Barclays could explain the decision and the reason is now obvious  the decision was wrong.
Its September 2019 letter shows that he was right and there was no reason for him to move 
his shares previously, as Barclays letter of 30 September 2019 made clear that the 
restrictions applied going forwards. 
As Mr B didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Mr B has strong feelings about this matter and is clearly unhappy with 
decisions and actions taken by Barclays. He has provided detailed argument about what he 
thinks Barclays got wrong, from when it decided to move clients to its new SmartInvestor 
platform in 2017. I have considered everything he has said but I am not persuaded that I 
should depart from the outcome reached by the investigator.
Mr B has complained previously about SmartInvestor and referred that complaint to our 
service. It isnt appropriate for me to make detailed findings about matters that were dealt 
with by the previous complaint. However, it is necessary for me to make reference to what 
happened in 2017 and subsequently in dealing with this complaint. So I will be commenting 
on matters that have been addressed by us in the previous complaint.
Barclays moved its clients from Barclays Stockbrokers to its new SmartInvestor platform on 
28 August 2017. Barclays wrote to Mr B about this change beforehand, on 26 June 2017, 
and said that as he was a non-UK resident some restrictions could apply and that if they did 
it would write to him.
Barclays also provided a brochure to clients about the SmartInvestor service. The brochure 
referred to paying into the SmartInvestor account using a debit card or by DD and that if 
there was a nominated bank account you could also pay in by faster payment. As with the 
letter the brochure said that for customers living outside the UK some restrictions will apply 
to the SmartInvestor account and it would write separately about this.
The brochure stated that if a client had just one nominated bank account it would carry this 
across to the new service. There was nothing in the brochure to inform clients that if the 
nominated bank account was a non-UK bank account this could not be used.
However, although Mr B wasnt informed of the issue with his bank account before the move 
to SmartInvestor he was made aware of this through the first complaint he made. Barclays 
initial response to that complaint incorrectly stated that there was no reason his non-UK 
bank account should not have been linked to his SmartInvestor account and offered him 
£200. 
However, in January 2018 it confirmed that he couldnt use his non-UK bank account as a 
nominated account for his SmartInvestor account. It increased its offer to £300 to take 
account of initially telling him wrongly that his bank account could be a nominated account. 
That complaint was then referred to us and one of our investigators set out Barclays 
explanation as to why it had made a business decision not to permit non-UK bank accounts 
to be used as nominated accounts  namely because it had been unable to make 
appropriate regulatory checks on some of those accounts. The investigator explained in that 
complaint that Barclays had the right to change the service it offered, and that Mr B had the 
right to take his business elsewhere. It is not part of our services role to second guess and make findings on reasonable 
commercial decisions made by Barclays, even if such decisions impacted individual clients 
in a certain way. 
Barclays decision to move clients to its SmartInvestor platform and only provide its service 
to EEA residents, and its subsequent decision only to provide its service to UK residents are 
commercial decisions that Barclays was entitled to make. These are not decisions that we 
can interfere with.
Its decision not to allow non-UK bank accounts to be nominated accounts was also a 
commercial decision. There was a failure to provide information to clients about this before 
the move to the SmartInvestor platform, but that issue has already been dealt with by the 
previous complaint, as I have set out above.
I note Mr B disagrees with Barclays reasoning for not allowing non-UK bank accounts to be 
used with SmartInvestor. He believes it would have made more sense for it to get rid of 
those clients that it couldnt carry out the necessary regulatory checks for, rather than stop 
all clients with non-UK bank accounts from using them with SmartInvestor. 
This issue has already been considered by us in the first complaint and as such it isnt 
appropriate to reopen it in this complaint. However, I would make the point that just because 
Barclays could have dealt with that issue differently doesnt mean it did anything wrong. It 
was for Barclays to decide what to do about this using its reasonable commercial judgment.
Turning to the main issue in this complaint, in July and August 2019 Mr B tried to set up a 
DD using his non-UK bank account but was made aware that this wasnt possible as the 
account wasnt a UK bank account. 
Barclays then wrote to Mr B on 30 September 2019 telling him that as a non-UK resident it 
was changing the level of service it was providing going forwards. It said that as from 5 
November 2019 Mr B would be unable to; purchase any investments; reinvest any 
investment sale proceeds; continue with DD instructions; transfer into his account from 
another provider.
Mr B argues that Barclays wrongly applied these restrictions as from 28 August 2017 and 
this is the crux of his complaint. However, whilst I can understand why Mr B has argued this 
is what happened - given he hasnt been able to use his SmartInvestor account to trade - I 
dont agree with him that the restrictions were imposed before 5 November 2019.
From the information provided by both parties I am satisfied it is more likely than not Mr Bs 
inability to use his SmartInvestor account was because he didnt have a UK bank account, 
not because Barclays had imposed the restrictions referred to in its letter of 30 September 
2019 earlier. 
In other words, the only restriction on his SmartInvestor account before 5 November 2019 
was that he was prevented from nominating his non-UK account. As such he had no way of 
funding investments through SmartInvestor. That is not the same as Barclays imposing the 
restrictions set out in its letter of 30 September 2019 earlier than 5 November 2019. I have 
seen no evidence that shows that Mr B would not have been able to use his SmartInvestor 
account if he had had a UK bank account. 
Mr B was aware he couldnt nominate his non-UK bank account in early 2018 through his 
previous complaint. So, he was aware of that restriction well before Barclays decided to 
stop providing a service to non-UK residents and imposed the restrictions referred to in the 
letter of 30 September 2019. Barclays isnt responsible for Mr B choosing to continue with his SmartInvestor account after 
he was made aware that he wouldnt be able to use his non-UK bank account as a 
nominated account. In making that choice Mr B accepted the limitations that came with it 
which meant he was unable to invest money into his SmartInvestor account through his bank 
account. 
One final point I would make, is that, even if I had been persuaded that Barclays had 
wrongly applied the restrictions referred to in the letter of 30 September 2019 before 5 
November 2019, I am not satisfied the redress Mr B claims is reasonable in any event. 
He argues that he should be awarded redress based on an amount he would have invested 
through his SmartInvestor account if he had been able to invest. He has calculated this by 
reference to his previous trading history and arrived at a figure of £13,572 - although he 
initially claimed a higher figure. 
However, Mr B has not lost £13,572. This is money that he has not invested, so it has 
remained in his hands. There is no basis for asking Barclays to pay money to him that he 
has had the benefit of in any event. 
The only loss I think it could be argued he has suffered is the return he would have made if 
he had invested that amount between August 2017 and November 2019. However, there is 
no way of knowing if he would have been better or worse off if he had invested, as any 
investment he made could go down as well as up in value. 
Im also mindful that whatever his views about Barclays not allowing him to use his bank 
account with his SmartInvestor account, he was told he couldnt use it. If he wanted to trade 
there were options open to him, such as opening a separate trading account with a different 
provider.
Given I am not satisfied that Barclays imposed the restrictions set out in the letter of 30 
September 2019 before 5 November 2019, there is no basis for asking Barclays to pay 
anything for the issue Mr B raised about this.
Barclays offered £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B by not being able 
to use his non-UK bank account with SmartInvestor. I think this offer is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman