DRN-2716096
The complaint
Mrs E has complained on behalf of Mrs I about the amount paid by Ageas Insurance Limited 
following a claim under her property owners insurance policy for water damage. Shes also 
unhappy with the way it handled the claim.
What happened
Mrs I owns a rental property which is divided into three flats. In March 2018 a burst pipe 
meant all the tenants had to move out.
Ageas agreed to pay for alternative accommodation. Two of the tenants were found 
accommodation costing no more than theyd been paying Mrs I. Ageas had trouble finding 
alternative accommodation nearby for the other tenant. The tenants ended up paying £850 
more a month in rent. Mrs I agreed to split the extra cost with the tenant. She wanted Ageas 
to pay the whole of the shortfall.
Mrs I is also unhappy with the time Ageas took to repair the property and reimburse the 
accommodation costs. 
Ageas said it wouldnt pay towards the shortfall in accommodation costs as the policy only 
covered Mrs I for loss of rent as opposed to providing accommodation for the tenants. It also 
said the repairs were delayed by difficulties in drying the basement and obtaining estimates.
Mrs I brought her complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
was minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Mrs I was covered under her policy for loss of rent and/or alternative comparable 
accommodation. It was up to Ageas as to how it settled the claim. It could have simply paid 
Mrs I the rent she was receiving from the three tenants and they would have been left to sort 
out their own accommodation. Instead it chose (through its agent) to arrange alternative 
accommodation for the tenants.
Theres nothing in the policy to say that the cost of alternative accommodation mustnt 
exceed the loss of rent. It simply refers to the alternative accommodation being 
comparable.
So Ill look at whether the accommodation Ageas provided for the tenants in question was 
reasonably comparable. In deciding this I generally consider the quality of the alternative 
property, its location, size and amenities. I dont necessarily place a lot of weight on price as 
that can be affected by a number of factors. In this case it may well have been affected by 
the fact that the rent payable by this tenant to Mrs I had been fixed three years previously. I 
think its a fair assumption that by the time of the leak they were paying below the market 
rent.
In this case the flat in question was on the basement and ground floors of Mrs Is property 
with access to a garden. Its a period property in a residential street. It was within easy 
distance of the nursery which the tenants two young children attended. 
Ageass agent couldnt find them anything comparable in the same area for that rent. It 
offered them a second floor flat some distance away in a modern block or what Mrs I 
thought was a scruffy flat also some distance away. I dont think Mrs I and the tenant would 
have agreed to split the £850 additional rent if Ageas had offered broadly comparable 
accommodation. I also dont think it was fair for Ageas to base the search for comparable 
accommodation principally on the rent payable.
Ageas has no relationship with Mrs Is tenant. So I dont think its liable to pay anything to 
them in respect of their share of the additional rent. Mrs I says that the total additional rent 
was £6,470. I calculate that her share of the total was therefore £3,235. To put things right I 
think Ageas should reimburse Mrs I for that amount plus simple interest from the date of 
payment at the rate of 8%.
Mrs I is also unhappy with the time it took to dry the property so that her contractor could 
start reinstatement. The property wasnt stripped out to enable drying until the end of June, 
about two months after the leak. However in the meantime alternative accommodation had 
to be arranged for three sets of tenants. Following that their belongings needed to be 
removed and storage arranged. Although Ageas could perhaps have done this more quickly, 
I dont think there was any significant delay on its part with respect to drying.
Im of the view that there were, however, excessive delays in reimbursing Mrs I for payments 
due to her in respect of alternative accommodation. I can see that quite large sums claimed 
in April werent paid until July. A further payment requested through Ageass loss adjuster in 
mid-August was paid about four weeks later. I appreciate that Ageas was waiting for 
information from its loss adjuster before it could authorise these payments. But that wasnt 
Mrs Is fault. I think the delay would have been very stressful for her as these costs mounted 
up. To put things right I think Ageas should pay her £300 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by this.
Ageas  agreed  with my final decision.
In summary  Mrs E made  the following  points:
As Mrs I was keen  to keep  the tenant,  shed  agreed  to pay her tenant  half of the 
difference  in rent and that she would  split any subsequent  recovery  from the insurer  
equally  with the tenant.
It would be unfair for Ageas to profit from its refusal to meet the full cost of comparable 
alternative accommodation.
She provided evidence of the dates on which Mrs I had paid her share of the additional 
rent which well forward to Ageas for the purpose of calculating the interest due.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Is policy with Ageas is to protect her from loss as a landlord of a rented property. It 
covers costs that the landlord is legally responsible for under the tenancy. So, it would follow 
that if the landlord had to compensate the tenant, then Ageas might be liable to repay those 
expenses if it felt they were reasonable. 
In this case there was no provision within the tenancy agreement for the landlord to pay the 
additional cost of alternative accommodation. If the property became uninhabitable, either party could have terminated the tenancy agreement. 
In summary, the policy is in the name, and for the benefit, of the landlord and is not intended 
to benefit the tenant. As Ageas was aware Mrs I was paying half the additional rent to the 
tenant, I think its fair that Ageas should reimburse her for that. But she didnt have to agree 
to split any sums recovered from the insurer with her tenant. So I dont think Ageas should 
be required to pay anything in respect of the tenants share of the additional rent.
Since I see no reason to change my provisional findings, they now form part of this final 
decision. For clarification the compensation of £300 for trouble and upset is in addition to 
any sums previously paid in respect of this.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Ageas should pay Mrs I £3,235 in respect of accommodation costs 
plus simple interest at 8% and £300 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused her.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
pay the additional alternative accommodation costs incurred by Mrs I of £3,235;
pay interest* on the payments making up the sum of £3,235 referred to above from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
pay Mrs I £300 compensation for trouble and upset. Ageas Insurance Limited must 
pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs I accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the compensation 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mrs I, it should tell her how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mrs I a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman