DRN-3091149
The complaint
Mr V complains that national Savings and Investments (NS&I) failed to transfer funds as 
requested in 2011. 
What happened
Mr V saved funds with NS&I via a fixed interest savings certificate. In January 2011 Mr V 
sent NS&I a request to encash his funds. NS&I says it sent Mr K a payment of £15,899 via a 
bank transfer two days later. 
Last year, Mr V contacted NS&I and said he had recently realised his funds hadnt been 
received in 2011. NS&I said it couldnt trace Mr Vs money and that there was limited 
information available due to the length of time that had passed. 
Mr V referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
NS&I had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr V asked to 
appeal and requested evidence that showed the account NS&I transferred the money to, the 
reference it used and the confirmation letter it sent. As Mr V didnt accept the investigators 
view his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V says he asked NS&I to transfer his money in 2011 but it failed to do so. NS&I says it 
followed Mr Bs instruction and transferred his money to the bank account requested. But 
due to the passage of time, theres only limited information available to evidence what 
happened. Ive looked at the available information to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
this case. 
Mr V has asked for specific confirmation of the account details and reference used for his 
transfer in 2011. And hes asked for the confirmation letter as well. NS&I has explained it 
doesnt retain information or documents indefinitely. As a result, it doesnt have the 
documents Mr V wants. I understand why Mr V has asked to see these details, but NS&I 
cant retain information indefinitely. And Im satisfied its provided everything it can in this 
case. 
We do have some limited information, including the encashment form that provides Mr Vs 
instruction to close his account. The form includes Mr Vs bank account details and a request 
for NS&I to transfer his funds to it. NS&I has also provided a systems screen print that 
shows Mr Vs account was opened in 2008 and closed two years later in 2011. Im satisfied 
the information Ive seen shows NS&I closed Mr Vs account in February 2011, in line with 
his cash in request. 
I accept that NS&I cant provide evidence that shows the specific date it sent Mr V his 
money, or any reference it mayve used on the transfer. But I dont agree the absence of that 
evidence means NS&I failed to send Mr Vs funds as requested. In my view, the lack of 
evidence has most likely come about because the time thats passed, not because NS&I 
failed to follow Mr Vs instructions. Based on all the available information, Im satisfied NS&I 
transferred Mr Vs funds as requested in 2011. I havent been persuaded NS&I made an 
error or failed to follow Mr Vs instructions. 
As Im satisfied NS&I has dealt with Mr Vs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any 
further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman