DRN-1750670
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a furniture insurance claim 
for two damaged sofas.
All references to the insurer Ageas in my decision include its agents.
What happened
Mrs Ss policy started in November 2014 for a five-year period. In October 2019 Mrs S made 
a claim for two damaged sofas which included; peeling leather, rips, punctures and one 
sofas back was loose. Ageas sent a technician to look at the sofas, and they reported back 
that the damage wasnt a result of a structural defect, or accidental damage.
Ageas declined Mrs Ss claim saying the technicians report showed the damage wasnt 
accidental or due to a defect. The technicians conclusion was that the damage had been 
present for some time and was due to wear and tear over time and wasn't covered by 
Mrs Ss policy.
Mrs S was unhappy and raised a complaint saying when she purchased the policy, she was 
told it would cover her for any eventuality. She also said the technician was rude, and she 
wanted a second inspection to take place. Ageas considered the complaint but as it wasnt 
responsible for selling the policy it maintained the decision to decline the claim.
Our investigators view was that Ageas had fairly declined her claim, based on the evidence 
hed seen. He commented that if Mrs S had concerns regarding the sale of the policy, shed 
have to raise this with the business responsible. 
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view of her complaint, saying that the sofas were 
suffering from defects. As Mrs S disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss policy clearly states that its an accidental damage and structural defects insurance 
policy. Accidental damage is defined as sudden and unforeseen damage, while structural 
defect is a fault outside the manufacturers guarantee period due to faulty or defective parts. 
Section 5 explains what isn't covered, which includes, any damage resulting from wear and 
tear . So, for a claim to be successful, it must have arisen from one of the two causes, and 
damage for wear and tear is specifically excluded.
The technician who inspected Mrs Ss furniture has provided a detailed report with 
supporting pictures. Ive looked at these pictures and can see there are areas of colour loss 
to the covers, rips and tears and theres an issue with the back frame.In the technicians opinion, the colour loss on the leather has happened from general use of 
the sofa and is a result of wear and tear. They consider the back frame of one sofa has 
come loose from where its been pushing against a wall and is again consistent with general, 
regular use. The technician also comments that theres an area on the sofa which has 
suffered a spillage and attempts to remove this by Mrs S have resulted in the colour lifting 
off. 
Mrs S has said that one of her sofas is suffering from a defect as the spring has come out 
and can be felt when you sit in that spot. The photograph shes provided for this is 
inconclusive and Im not satisfied based on it alone that Mrs S has shown a spring is 
defective itself or evidence of a defect. Im more persuaded by the technical report Ive seen 
that the damage evident on the sofas is due to wear and tear and not a result of accidental 
damage or a structural defect. This type of damage isnt covered under the policy, so I wont 
be asking Ageas to do anything further. 
I understand Mrs S has said the technician was rude to her when they attended. If this was 
the case, Im not satisfied there is any information that demonstrates the technicians 
findings are unreliable. 
Mrs S has said that she was told incorrect information about the policy when she took it out. 
It is apparent on the Certificate of Insurance that it doesn't cover every eventuality. But 
as Ageas didnt sell the policy directly to Mrs S, I cant consider these concerns here. Mrs S 
can though make a complaint to the business that sold her the policy if she chooses.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman