DRN-3265961
The complaint
Mr F acquired a used vehicle in August 2017, by means of a 60-month conditional sale 
agreement with PSA Finance UK Limited. In April 2021, he agreed with PSA Voluntary 
Termination (VT) of his agreement. He complains about the charges applied to his 
agreement account at VT. He wants PSA to waive the charges. 
What happened
Mr Fs car was 37 months old, and had travelled a little under 46,000 miles, when he 
acquired it. No damage beyond normal wear and tear was pointed out to Mr F by the 
supplying dealership, and none was noted by Mr F, at the point of supply.
During 2020, Mr F agreed with PSA a pandemic-related payment break. He complained to 
PSA about: (a) adverse entries on his credit file relating to his payment break, which he felt 
were unfair; and (b) its customer service following the payment break and relating to VT.
  
PSA corrected the adverse entries on Mr Fs credit file, upheld this complaint and paid him 
compensation. It also upheld in part his complaint about poor customer service, and it paid 
him further compensation. 
Mr F complained to PSA as well about charges applied at VT to his account. These related 
to:
A payment required to bring his total repayments up to 50% of total payments due 
under his agreement (a condition of VT)
Charges relating to the recovery of his car
Charges relating to damage to his car, beyond normal wear and tear
Mr F told us that he agreed VT because he could no longer afford to make the monthly 
repayments required under his agreement.  Information provided to Mr F by PSA explained 
that he would need to pay it a little under £10,000 at VT. 
Mr F said this payment should be waived because of his financial hardship, but there is no 
evidence of an undertaking by PSA to do so. Although PSA told Mr F, in its response to his 
complaint, that it would be willing to discuss and arrange a suitable repayment plan, to avoid 
the whole payment needing to be made in one transaction.
The VT information provided to Mr F also explained that he could return his car to PSAs 
collection agent without incurring a charge. Alternatively, the agent could collect his car for a 
modest fee. Mr F chose collection, but he said that he had difficulties in contacting the agent. 
He also appears to have been initially unaware that his car needed a current MOT when 
returned. 
PSA said that it and its agent had repeated difficulties over two months in contacting Mr F, to 
arrange collection. Because of this, it instructed repossession agents to collect Mr Fs car. 
This incurred a larger fee, which was charged to his account. 
The VT information provided to Mr F explained as well that he would be liable for any losses 
or costs incurred by PSA, if his car had been damaged or otherwise not properly maintained 
(in accordance with the terms of his agreement). And so, Mr Fs car was independently 
inspected after recovery, using industry guidelines to determine whether any items of 
damage exceeded normal wear and tear. Nine chargeable damage items were identified, 
costing a little over £600 to repair.
PSA did not uphold Mr Fs complaint about charges, which he then referred to us. Our 
investigator did not think that PSA had acted unreasonably by applying most of these 
charges:
She agreed with PSA that Mr F was liable to repay all of 50% of total payments, 
required under his agreement  although she pointed out that PSA was obliged to 
respond positively and sympathetically to a customer in financial difficulties 
She also felt that, given the difficulties and delays experienced in returning Mr Fs car 
after he had agreed VT, PSA was entitled to charge for its repossession
But she did not agree that all nine identified items of damage should be chargeable
Our investigator reviewed the photographic evidence obtained when Mr Fs car was 
inspected. She recommended that three of the nine items should not be charged, thereby 
reducing the total repair cost by just under half.   
PSA accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr F did not. He did not agree that he 
should have to pay any recovery charges. 
Mr F also disputed some of the six remaining damage items. He said that these damages 
were present when he acquired the car, and that he should not have to accept responsibility 
for them. 
So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr F. But I have come to the same conclusions as our investigator, for 
similar reasons.
I agree with our investigator that Mr F must fulfil his VT obligation to repay in total 50% of the 
total payments required under his agreement. But I also note both our investigators 
comment that PSA is obliged to respond positively and sympathetically to a customer in 
financial difficulties, and PSAs statement that it would be willing to discuss and arrange a 
suitable repayment plan, to avoid the whole payment needing to be made in one transaction.
I understand that Mr F chose VT because he could no longer afford to make the monthly 
repayments required under his agreement. This should help him to manage his financial 
difficulties, given the obligations placed on PSA when dealing with customers in these 
circumstances.
I also agree with our investigator that PSAs actions and charges were fair, in circumstances 
where VT had been agreed but the car had not been recovered within a reasonable period of 
time. A modest fee was always chargeable because Mr F opted for collection, but the delay 
in recovery justified repossession and consequentially a larger fee, in my view.  I agree as well with our investigator that many of the damage items, identified when Mr Fs 
car was recovered, were more than normal wear and tear  and so were chargeable. 
Mr F asserts that some of those items related to damage already done to his car when he 
acquired it  but, unfortunately for him, there is no evidence to support this assertion. In 
these circumstances, I regret to say I am unable to give further consideration to Mr Fs 
argument, that he should not be responsible for those damage items or their related 
charges. 
Putting things right
Having considered above the justifiable charges, our investigator identified three items of 
damage to Mr Fs car that did not exceed normal wear and tear, and so for which he should 
not be charged. For this reason, I agree with our investigators recommendation that these 
charges (totalling £305) should be waived.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement of it, I order PSA Finance UK Limited to waive charges totalling £305 
that have been applied to Mr Fs conditional sale agreement account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman