DRN-2529456
The complaint
Miss S complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Miss S was given a single loan by Loans 2 Go. She borrowed £500 in January 2019 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 18 monthly instalments. Shortly afterwards Miss S faced 
problems making her repayments and a default notice was issued in July 2019. A balance 
remained outstanding on the loan when Miss S made her complaint. 
Miss Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the 
checks Loans 2 Go had done before agreeing to lend to Miss S had been sufficient. And he 
didnt think those checks suggested that Miss S might find it difficult to repay the loan. So our 
adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Miss S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. 
Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss S could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Loans 2 Go should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Miss S.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Miss S before it agreed the loan. It asked her 
for details of her income, and her normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file. It then 
used the results of those credit checks to revise Miss Ss declared expenditure upwards. 
I think that the checks Loans 2 Go did before agreeing the loan were proportionate. The 
amount that Miss S needed to repay each month was small compared with the income shed 
declared. Given these repayment amounts and what was apparent about Miss Ss 
circumstances at the time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Loans 2 Go to ask 
her for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable before agreeing the loan.
The credit check that Loans 2 Go performed didnt suggest that Miss S was facing any 
serious problems managing her money. She was making some use of other credit, but she 
was managing that credit well, with no evidence of significant repeated borrowing or 
missed/late repayments. I dont think the credit check evidence should have given 
Loans 2 Go any concerns about lending to Miss S. And, even after taking account of the 
adjustments Loans 2 Go made to Miss Ss income and expenditure, the repayments on the 
loan appeared to be affordable for Miss S.
I appreciate that Miss S says her financial situation at the time was far worse than 
Loans 2 Gos checks indicated. And she has sent us copies of her bank statements from the 
time as further evidence. But as Ive explained above I think it was reasonable for 
Loans 2 Go to rely on the information Miss S provided at the time, and its credit check. 
I dont think it was necessary for it to review Miss Ss bank statements. But even so, the 
bank statements dont show any obvious signs of serious financial problems such as 
excessive use of an overdraft, or repeated unpaid transactions. So I dont think Loans 2 Go 
would have reached a different conclusion about agreeing the loan even if it had looked at 
Miss Ss bank statements.
So in summary, I think that the checks Loans 2 Go did were proportionate. And those checks 
didnt suggest that Miss S would face problems repaying this loan in a sustainable manner. 
So I dont think that Loans 2 Go was wrong to agree to lend to Miss S.
As I said earlier, it seems that an outstanding balance remains on this loan. Id remind 
Loans 2 Go that it should treat Miss S with forbearance and with due consideration when 
discussing how the remaining balance should be repaid.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman