DRN-3505859
The complaint
Mr C and Mr H complain about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of their Building Warranty 
claim.
All references to Amtrust also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Ive explained why our service cant consider part of the issues Mr C and Mr H raised with 
Amtrust in a separate decision. Any reference to this here is for contextual purposes only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Section 3.3 of the warranty sets out that it covers major damage and requires the 
damage to have been caused by a defect. A defect is defined as a failure to comply 
with a functional requirement set out in the technical manual.
Ive considered the points Mr C and Mr H have raised regarding the manufacturers 
best practice and they were told verbally by a contractor that mesh cloth had not 
been applied to the property. However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me this 
was a requirement set out in the technical manual.
Amtrusts surveyor concluded the damage appeared to be caused by thermal 
movement and that the cracking evident was not related to a defect in the structure. 
Amtrust is entitled to rely on the opinion of its experts, and in the absence of any 
other expert testimony to contradict this, Im not persuaded Amtrust is obviously 
wrong. The cracks considered in this complaint were all reported to be less than 
0,2mm wide, which is consistent with what you would see from thermal movement.
Amtrust has accepted it gave Mr C and Mr H incorrect information about the claim 
and offered them £100 compensation. In the circumstances, I think this is reasonable 
as it fairly reflects the inconvenience this caused Mr C and Mr H.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr C and Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman