DRN-4377726
The complaint
Mrs H as administratrix of the estate of the late Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc 
charged interest on the mortgage having said that the account was frozen at the date of his 
death - 27 August 2020 - and continued to charge interest although the account had been 
paid off. 
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage with Barclays and died in August 2020 intestate. His wife Mrs H 
contacted Barclays on 31 August 2020 to say that she was applying for letters of 
administration and was told that the mortgage account was frozen. Mr H had savings 
accounts with Barclays. Letters of Administration didnt issue until 17 October 2022.
Barclays said that it had given confusing information about the mortgage account to Mrs H, 
but the position was that interest continued to accrue on the mortgage account even if it was 
described as frozen. The bank accepted it could have been clearer as regards the mortgage 
account and that it had sent letter about threatened litigation to the mortgaged property 
rather than Mrs Ss correspondence address. Barclays accepted it had caused distress with 
Mrs S and offered compensation of £500.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld as Mrs H was never 
made aware that interest was accruing whilst the mortgage was outstanding and if she had 
known, she could have used the funds Mr H held in other accounts with Barclays to redeem 
the mortgage and avoid the extra interest. So, our investigator recommended that Barclays 
write off the interest charge of £4,418.21 and pay £500 in compensation for Mrs Hs distress.
My provisional findings
As I disagreed with our investigators view I issued a provisional decision in the following 
terms:
There are a number of parts to this complaint. The main issue is whether Barclays could 
charge interest after Mr Hs death. Undoubtedly it can. Mr H borrowed money with a 
commitment to pay it back and after his death that responsibility falls on his estate. Until the 
estate pays off the balance it is responsible for paying interest on the outstanding balance. If 
the estate cannot immediately pay because a grant of probate is pending for example, 
normally the lender will allow a grace period and may not require interest payments to be 
met during that period, but the interest remains due.
Mrs H says she understood from conversations with Barclays staff that she wouldnt have to 
pay interest and our investigator felt that she was misled, and this deprived her of the 
opportunity to pay the mortgage off earlier from funds held to the credit of her late husband 
with Barclays. Barclays says it couldnt touch the money until formal Letters of Administration 
had issued, so I cant say that Mrs H was deprived of that opportunity by any misstatements 
by members of Barclays staff. 
In any event, having listened to a call in October between Mrs H and a Barclays staff 
member I believe that Mrs H was aware that interest would accrue on the account after Mr 
Ms death. Mrs H tells that staff member that her understanding was that the mortgage was 
on hold but still accumulating interest which was in fact the case and would remain so until 
Letters of Administration issued. That was is in a conversation of 21 October 2020 when 
Miss H phoned to get the mortgage balance at date of death. 
I also noted that Mrs H said that her understanding was that the mortgage was to continue
although on hold until Letters of Administration issued and at that stage she could either
apply to continue with the mortgage in her name or pay it off. So, I believe that Mrs H was 
aware that interest would be charged on the account and that she could later explore the 
option of continuing the mortgage in her name or paying it off.
Mrs H now questions why Barclays didnt pay it off from the money it held to the credit of Mr
M. I note that she refers to a document from Barclays called Financial and emotional
support: Life after Loss which says thats what Barclays can do. But thats to do with bank
loans overdrafts and credit cards and not mortgages. In any case Mrs H would seem to have
wished to keep the option of transferring the mortgage into her name open until Letters of
Administration issued. If Barclays had paid it off, even assuming it could have, it would have
removed that option. It also seems to me that it would have interfered with Mrs H ability to do
as she wanted with the money in those accounts when they were unfrozen.
The other issue is how Barclays handled the mortgage account pending Letters of 
Administration issuing. I understand there were difficulties getting information from Barclays 
which has been dealt with in another complaint.  Barclays says that it normally allows 12 
months from the date of death for the relevant documents to be received before passing the 
matter to its litigation team. In this case it said it allowed longer and didnt do so until 31 
January 2022. Should Barclays have instructed solicitors when it did? I appreciate that it has 
a non-performing loan and whilst Letters of Administration are pending it can do little about 
that. But equally Mrs H is in the same position waiting for these Letters to issue. 
Barclays understood that once the papers have been submitted that it shouldnt have taken 
as long as it did but sometimes the process does take that long. From looking at the file Mrs 
H has responded to any requests for contact that Barclays made and Ive seen no evidence 
that she was in any way delaying the process of extracting the Letters of Administration that 
would have justified taking the case to legal. Indeed, she has supplied evidence to us that
there was a delay in the Probate offices processes that meant that there was a delay in the
issue of the Letters of Administration. The Probate office apologised to Mrs H for that. I 
appreciate that Barclays has timelines and that it was taking action in line with its timelines, 
but each case should be considered on its merits. In this case I dont consider that there was 
evidence that Mrs H was being obstructive or failing to provide updates to Barclays when it 
required them. So, I dont consider Mrs H should be responsible for any legal costs arising 
from Barclays instructing solicitors to pursue Mrs H for the debt due on the mortgage.
In summary. I accept that Barclays can add interest to the account following Mr Ms death. 
Whilst I accept that some of the conversations with Barclays staff were confusing, Mrs H was 
aware that this interest would be due. I dont consider that Barclays should have instructed 
solicitors to pursue Mrs H for the amount due on the mortgage pending Letters of 
Administration issuing. I believe that in terms of the distress caused to Mrs H that £500 is a 
reasonable figure but that in addition, Barclays should remove any legal charges added to 
the mortgage account. I invited submissions from Mrs H and from Barclays for me to consider before I came to my 
final decision. I received responses from both parties, and these appear below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Barclays accepted my Provisional Decision, its view had been that Mrs H hadnt been 
pro-active in her dealings with the Probate Office. But it accepted that Mrs H had told them 
about the difficulties she was having, and that Barclays could have done more to connect its 
bereavement team with Mrs H. Barclays felt that as a result Mrs H missed an opportunity to 
contact the bereavement team before the matter progressed to litigation. As that might well 
have been avoided the case going to legal, it accepted that its reasonable to refund the 
litigation charges by way of payment direct to Mrs H, as the mortgage account has been 
redeemed, if she could supply our investigator with her account details for the receipt of that 
payment.
Mrs H disagreed and made the following points. The bank should not have discussed Mr Ms 
affairs with her In October 2020 as she had no legal formal authority at that that time to 
represent the estate; that the bank has consistently told her that the account was to be 
frozen and so no interest should be applied; that on 17 September 2020 she signed a 
Personal Indemnity form as wife and sole executor of the estate telling the bank to use any 
money in the Deceaseds account to pay off any balances owed to the Barclays group but 
this was never actioned by Barclays either at the time or when Letters of Administration 
issued. 
Mrs H forwarded to us a personal indemnity form which authorises Barclays to use any 
money in the deceaseds account to pay off any balances owed to the Barclays Group. This 
document is dated the 17 September 2020 before the phone call referred to above in 
October 2020. Barclays say that this form relates solely to unsecured lending rather than 
secured lending although on the face of it, it does not make the distinction. Barclays says 
that following a bereavement the representative will look to sell the mortgaged property or 
look to arrange their own mortgage secured on the property to repay the deceaseds 
outstanding liability and so treats the secured debt of the mortgage differently than the 
unsecured debt such as overdrafts and credit cards etc. 
Barclays also says that Mrs H was fully aware of this given the timeline and breakdown of 
conversations it has provided to us. I agree with Barclays. If Mrs H believed that by signing 
this document in September that the credit balances would be transferred to the mortgage 
balance, she surely would have mentioned this in the conversation in October. That she did 
not do so indicates that her understanding was the same as Barclays, that this document 
applied to unsecured lending and the mortgage would be treated differently. Again, from the 
conversation in October I dont believe that her understanding that a reference to a frozen 
account meant that no interest would be charged rather that the mortgage was on hold with 
no interest payments being collected but with interest accruing. Neither do I see why I should 
penalise Barclays for having a conversation with Mrs H the next of kin of the deceased. My 
role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I dont see how that 
was either unfair or unreasonable. 
As Ive set out in my Provisional Decision Im in no doubt from listening to the conversation 
in October that Mrs H was aware that interest would continue to accrue on the mortgage 
account. The further submissions from Mrs H have not altered my view. So, after considering the further submissions and reviewing the evidence, Im of the view that my Provisional 
Decision represents a fair outcome to this complaint.
  
Putting things right
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation of £500 (unless already paid) and 
refund to the estate any legal charges or costs added to the mortgage account related to the 
proposed litigation. That refund should include a refund of any interest charged to the 
account in relation to those legal charges or costs together with interest at 8% pa on the 
amount of those charges or costs from the date of payment to the date of the refund. If 
Barclays considers that it is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if appropriate.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation of 
£500 (unless already paid) and refund to the estate the amount of any legal charges or costs 
added to the mortgage account related to the proposed litigation.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman