DRN-3673454
The complaint
Miss B complains that a used car she got with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from The 
Car Finance Company (2007) Limited (TCFC) was of unsatisfactory quality. And she doesnt 
think she should have to pay anything further towards the finance because she rejected the 
car and it was agreed the finance would be cancelled.
What happened
Miss B got this car in March 2016. It cost nearly £6,000 and she agreed to repay about 
£12,000 at about £250 a month over four years. Miss B had problems with the vehicle and 
took it back to the supplying dealer a number of times but issues persisted. She complained 
to TCFC and says the dealer then agreed she could return the car and the finance would be 
settled. 
Miss B thought that was the end of the matter until she got a call from TCFC chasing 
payment in 2017 and she was contacted by a third party (that Ill call A) who said she still 
owed over £9,000 for the car, in 2019. Miss B says she no longer has the car and the dealer 
was supposed to sort out the finance so its unfair shes being chased for payment after all 
this time.
TCFC accepts Miss B got in touch about car quality issues in September 2016 - contact 
notes from the relevant time indicate she reported the car would rev up without prompting 
and shed taken it back to the dealer several times. The same notes say the dealer checked 
the car and no faults were found and TCFC arranged for an independent expert to inspect in 
November 2016. 
TCFC was unable to supply the experts report initially but its account notes say he was 
unable to replicate the issues that Miss B experienced and TCFC told Miss B, in November 
2016, that it didnt accept the car was faulty. Miss B failed to collect the vehicle and the car 
was later repossessed. TCFC sold the car but this wasnt enough to pay off the balance and 
says Miss B remains liable to pay about £9,100.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded the car 
was faulty and she didnt think Miss B was entitled to reject it and end the finance 
agreement. She found it unlikely the dealer had agreed to take the car back and pay off the 
finance and she wasnt persuaded it would be fair to ask TCFC to waive or reduce the debt. 
She noted Miss B had concerns about As actions and she explained that Miss B would need 
to raise those with A first - and she might be able to bring a separate complaint to our 
service if she was unhappy with the response. 
Miss B didnt think that was fair and she asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. She 
says (in summary) she never received a final response letter (FRL) from TCFC, shes 
unclear about why the expert would have inspected in November 2016 - when she took the 
car back long before that - and its unfair to charge her the whole amount given the car was 
sold. 
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. I 
thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings - and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) - before I made my final decision. I issued a provisional 
decision on 12 July 2022 and Ive set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. This 
forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Miss B brings her complaint to our service because she acquired this car under a HPA from 
TCFC. And I should make it clear at the outset, that Im considering TCFCs obligations 
arising under the HPA here. It looks as if TCFC sent its final response to Miss B on 22 
December 2016. Miss B didnt refer the matter to our service until February 2021 but TCFC 
hasnt objected to us looking into the matter so we can consider the merits of Miss Bs 
complaint.
The information supplied to our investigator was somewhat limited  due, in part, to the 
passage of time. I asked the parties for more information, after the matter was referred to 
me. Both parties went to some trouble to provide additional evidence and Id like to thank 
them for that. 
I want to assure the parties, if I dont address every point raised, its not because I havent 
thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going 
to concentrate in this decision on what I consider is relevant and material to reaching a fair 
and reasonable outcome overall. The rules of our service  which provides an alternative to 
the courts - allow me to do that. 
I make my decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable overall but Im obliged to 
take relevant law (among other things) into account. Im satisfied the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA) is relevant here and TCFC was obliged to ensure that this car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss B. 
Was the car of unsatisfactory quality?
The level of quality thats satisfactory varies according to individual circumstances. In the 
case of a used car, its generally reasonable to take into account factors such as the age, 
price and mileage at the point of supply. This car was about six years old with nearly 61,000 
miles on the clock and cost just under £6,000. As such, I think a reasonable person would 
accept it wouldnt meet the same standards as a brand new vehicle  as parts are likely to 
be worn and need replacing sooner or later  which is reflected in the lower price paid for a 
used vehicle. 
It looks as if Miss B complained to TCFC in September 2016 because she was unhappy with 
the car. This was around six months after supply but I think Miss B probably started to have 
some problems before that. This is reflected in TCFCs contact notes and most people, in my 
experience, tend to contact the supplying dealer first in this situation. Thats what Miss B 
says happened here  she took the car back to the dealer initially but problems persisted so 
she contacted TCFC. 
TCFC arranged for an independent expert to inspect the car in November 2016. I think this 
was reasonable. TCFC was able to locate the experts report after our investigator provided her view. We sent a copy of this to Miss B and I have considered the report carefully. I can 
see the car had covered nearly 68,000 miles when the expert took it for a test drive - so it 
looks as if Miss B was able to travel over 7,000 miles after supply. 
The expert couldnt replicate the revving issue that Miss B reported but he thought the most 
likely cause of this was the diesel particulate filter (DPF) regenerating. He said this is a 
process the car is supposed to undertake, not a fault. And he didnt think the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when TCFC supplied it to Miss B. The expert did identify two faults - he 
found issues with wheel alignment/steering geometry and a wheel bearing. But, he 
considered these were likely due to wear and tear and not the responsibility of TCFC. 
I think the expert seems to have appropriate qualifications and experience. I find his report to 
be fairly detailed and the conclusions seem to make sense. I think its reasonable to give 
some weight to what the expert says. Im not persuaded the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality, on the current evidence. And I cant reasonably conclude that TCFC should have 
allowed Miss B to reject the car and end the finance in 2016 - or that it should do so now. 
Should TCFC have allowed Miss B to end the agreement another way ? 
TCFCs contact notes suggest that a case handler spoke to Miss B about her options in 
November 2016. I think it would have been fair for TCFC to remind Miss B that it was open 
to her to end the agreement by way of a process known as voluntary termination (VT) at this 
time. I asked Miss B if this was discussed but she couldnt remember. On balance, I think it 
probably was  I can see TCFC referred to the right to VT the HPA in the FRL sent a month 
later. In any event, Miss B she told me she wouldnt have taken the VT option if it was raised 
and I cant fairly find TCFC did something wrong in this respect. 
Did TCFC agree that Miss B could reject the car and cancel the finance? 
I can see that Miss B feels strongly that she should have no further liability under the HPA 
because the dealer said she could hand the car back and the finance would be settled. 
TCFC denies any agreement to allow Miss B to do so. And, while I cant be certain what 
Miss B discussed with the dealer at the time, Im not persuaded its likely that TCFC agreed 
to take the car back and end the HPA. 
I say this because I can see, (from DVLA records) that Miss B was the vehicles registered 
keeper until mid-October 2016. This is consistent with the time she told us she took the car 
back to the dealer because she wanted to reject it. And its about a month before the 
experts inspection took place. I think its unlikely TCFC would have arranged and paid for an 
experts inspection if it had already agreed that Miss B could reject the car the previous 
month. I find it more likely than not Miss B returned the car without TCFCs agreement. 
Ive also considered contact records that TCFC supplied - which seem to be 
contemporaneous with events. These say Miss B was asked to collect the car after the 
experts inspection, because no faults had been found. And she was told this in writing as 
well around the same time. Miss B has confirmed that TCFC contacted her by phone in the 
early part of 2017 about the outstanding balance  which is what Id expect to happen if the 
finance wasnt cancelled. And I think TCFC probably would have written to Miss B about the 
debt around this time as well. 
Miss B says she didnt receive correspondence from TCFC after she handed the car back. 
But she also told us that she moved house in the middle of December 2016 and didnt tell 
TCFC about her new address. Im satisfied it was Miss Bs responsibility to keep her contact 
details up to date. I appreciate she says she didnt think she needed to keep TCF informed  
because as far as she was concerned  the finance had ended. But, Im not persuaded thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im satisfied the HPA Miss B signed makes it fairly clear that TCFC owned the car and Miss 
B recognised it was TCFC she needed to contact when she had quality concerns and 
wanted to reject the vehicle. I think Miss B was made reasonably aware at the outset of her 
obligations to keep the car in good condition and return it to TCFC (if she didnt make the 
final payment) under the terms of the HPA. Im satisfied TCFC likely informed Miss B that it 
didnt agree she was entitled to reject the car. So, even if the dealer proposed an alternative 
solution, I think it would have been reasonable for Miss B to check that with TCFC. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that she did so  either when she handed to car back or after receiving a 
phone call from TCFC a few months later. Im not persuaded I can reasonably conclude that 
TCFC agreed to take the car back and cancel the HPA. 
Outstanding liability 
It looks as if the account defaulted in June 2017. The cars MOT history suggests it was in 
use by someone in August that year and I think its reasonable to conclude that TCFC had 
sold the car by then. Under the terms of the HPA, Miss B remains liable for the balance in 
this situation - less an amount equal to the actual proceeds of sale taking off any costs 
involved, such as repossession. 
We asked TCFC but it hasnt been able to provide details of the sale proceeds. Instead, 
TCFC says it was policy to allow the customer the current CAP value for the vehicle 
regardless of condition and deduct the cost of bringing the car back to useable condition and 
repossession. So Miss Bs account was credited with the CAP value of around £2,800 less 
£250 for repossession and £1,150 for bringing the car back to useable condition. 
Ive given some thought as to whether this is fair and reasonable. The CAP value is an 
average price, according to an industry guide. I can see TCFC provided evidence of the CAP 
value of the vehicle at the start of the HPA and this amount was about halfway between the 
retail price and trade value at that time. Im minded to find the CAP value of £2,800 probably 
represents a realistic estimate of the price this car is likely to have achieved at auction. So I 
cant fairly say its unreasonable to apply this amount to reduce the balance owing. 
I dont think £250 seems an unreasonable charge for the cost of repossession  its in 
keeping with what Ive seen in other similar cases. But, Ive seen nothing to show why it was 
necessary to charge £1,150 for re-conditioning. I acknowledge Miss B was obliged to keep 
and return the car to TCFC in good condition - under the terms of the HPA. But Ive seen 
nothing to show what this cost was made up of exactly or why this work was needed. And I 
dont think its unreasonable to expect a car finance company like TCFC to evidence this sort 
of charge. 
I accept the expert found some outstanding maintenance issues that would have been Miss 
Bs responsibility when he saw the car in November 2016. But, I dont think putting those 
right is likely to have cost more than £150. I can see the reconditioning cost was applied in 
March 2017  less than four months later. It seems unlikely the car would have been stored 
in poor conditions, given Miss B left it at the dealership  which looks (from the finance 
paperwork) to be part of the same group of companies as TCFC. Id expect TCFC to take 
reasonable steps to mitigate its losses in this situation. I dont think it would have been too 
difficult for TCFC to ensure the car was stored properly, in these particular circumstances. 
And, in the absence of further evidence, Im minded to find the balance owing should be 
reduced by £1,000. 
Summary of my provisional conclusions For the reasons set out, Im not persuaded (on the current evidence) that this car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. And I think its unlikely TCFC agreed that Miss B 
should be entitled to reject the car and end the finance. Im not persuaded that TCFC acted 
unfairly in terminating the finance in the way that it did and repossessing the car. But, Im 
upholding the complaint in part because Im minded to find it would be fair and reasonable 
for TCFC to reduce the amount owed by £1,000 as Ive explained above. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments or new evidence by 9 August 2022. TCFC has accepted my provisional findings 
and taken steps to reduce the amount owed in line with my provisional conclusions. Miss B 
acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and she hasnt raised any objections or 
provided any new information. I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional 
findings in the circumstances. 
For the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when 
it was supplied. I find it unlikely TCFC agreed that Miss B should be entitled to reject the car 
and end the finance. And I dont think TCFC acted unfairly in terminating the finance in the 
way that it did and repossessing the car. I uphold the complaint in part however because I 
consider it would be fair and reasonable for TCFC to reduce the amount owed by £1,000 as 
set out above and amend Miss Bs credit file accordingly.  
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint in part and (if it hasnt done so already) I require The 
Car Finance Company (2007) Limited to reduce the amount Miss B owes by £1,000 and 
arrange for this reduction to be reflected in any information it has recorded about the HPA on 
her credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman