DRN-2293263
The complaint
Mr D complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc settled his claim on his car insurance.
Mr D has been represented by his mother at points throughout the claim and the complaint. 
For ease of reading all references to Mr D include the actions of his mother. 
What happened
Mr D had a car insurance policy with AXA. In October 2019 the car was stolen and he made 
a claim on his insurance. 
AXA accepted the claim and offered a cash settlement of £33,000, which it considered to be 
the value of the vehicle. Mr D didnt think the valuation was fair and provided some adverts 
of similar vehicles to prove this. Based on this AXA increased its value eventually to 
£37,000.
Mr D still didnt think this was fair as the value was still lower than the adverts. He also said 
he had been planning to sell the vehicle before it was stolen and had been offered 
considerably more. He was also unhappy about the length of time it had taken AXA to agree 
a settlement, as this had only been agreed in January 2020. He says he has had to continue 
paying payments towards the finance for the vehicle during that time and thought this should 
be reimbursed. He made a complaint to AXA.
AXA agreed that there had been some avoidable delays and offered £100 compensation to 
make up for this. However it said it thought the valuation was fair based on trade guides, so 
wouldnt be increasing it further.
Mr D didnt think the car had been valued fairly and thought AXA should pay for the finance 
payments he had been making while waiting for a settlement to be agreed. He brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend Mr Ds complaint be upheld. 
She said she felt the final valuation offered by AXA was fair based on the trade guides. She 
also said that the finance Mr D had paid would always have been owed, so it wasnt fair to 
ask AXA to pay for this. And she thought £100 compensation was reasonable to make up for 
the poor service Mr D had received.
Mr D didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D is unhappy with the settlement offered by AXA. And he thinks the delays he has 
experienced have caused him a financial loss. I have considered each of things in in turn to 
decide if AXA has treated Mr D fairly and reasonably. 
Settlement
Mr D says AXA undervalued his vehicle. I have first considered what AXA is liable to pay 
under the policy. Under the fire and theft section it states as follows:
We will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss less any 
excesses
The policy defines market value as follows:
The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of a similar 
age, mileage and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
So under the policy AXA has to pay Mr D the amount it would cost him to replace the car 
with another of the same condition and age on the date of the loss. So I need to decide if 
what AXA has valued Mr Ds vehicle at is fair and reasonable.
When considering whether a valuation is fair and reasonable, we consider prices provided 
by trade guides. This service considers these to be the most reliable for calculations as they 
are based on the amount vehicles have been sold for, rather than just advertised prices. The 
values also take into account the specific car make and model, mileage and age. And the 
condition of the car. 
I have looked at three trade guides. The prices for Mr Ds vehicle at the date of the loss 
range from around £31,000 to around £35,000 on these guides. I appreciate Mr D has 
provided five adverts that show similar vehicles to his own being advertised at a higher price, 
so I understand why he feels the valuation is low. However trade guides tend to be more 
accurate as they are based specifically on the mileage, age and condition of Mr Ds car, 
whereas adverts vary in their comparison. Further, based on the adverts, AXA has increased 
its settlement to £37,000. Which is above the trade guides Ive seen. In the circumstances I 
think this is a fair offer, so I wont ask AXA to pay anything further. 
Service
When considering how AXA should put things right for Mr D I have considered the impact 
the poor service and delays have had. I can appreciate the delay in receiving settlement 
would have been frustrating and, along with the lengthy phone calls, would have caused him 
some distress and inconvenience.
Having reviewed the correspondence between AXA and Mr D as well as his account of the 
numerous phone calls he has had to make, I can see that AXA has provided a poor service. 
The claim was made in October 2019, but settlement wasnt agreed until February 2020. 
This is much longer than I would expect. Further Mr D has reported long hold times when 
trying to call AXA which would have no doubt increased his frustration.
However Mr D told AXA that he had other vehicles and the car that was stolen was an 
additional, non-essential car. So he wouldnt have been affected by not having use of the 
stolen vehicle. 
Mr D has also said that during the time AXA was settling the claim he had to continue 
making payments on the outstanding finance. He says he had to make these payments for 
longer due to the delays so AXA should reimburse him. I have considered this but I dont 
agree. When Mr D took out the finance for the vehicle he entered into a contract committing to pay 
the money owed back to the finance company. And, regardless of the fact the car was 
stolen, this money would always need to be paid back. When a total loss claim is settled on 
a car bought on finance, the insurer will pay the settlement to the finance company to pay off 
the outstanding debt. However any additional on top of this amount will be owed by the 
owner of the vehicle as part of the finance contract. So regardless of how long it took AXA to 
settle the claim, Mr D would still have had to pay the same amount to pay off the finance. So 
I dont agree it would be fair to ask AXA to reimburse these payments, as the money would 
always have needed to be paid.
So I appreciate Mr D has experienced poor service from AXA and it has caused avoidable 
delays. However AXA has already offered £100 compensation and I think this is enough to 
make up for the distress and inconvenience this poor service has caused. So I wont ask 
AXA to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman