DRN-4209589
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain about what happened when they asked to remortgage two buy to let 
(BTL) properties with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr and Mrs V own two BTL properties. One of these (which Ill refer to here as the flat) was 
already mortgaged with HSBC, and the other (which Ill refer to as the house) wasnt. Their 
complaint is about what happened when they tried to remortgage the properties with HSBC.
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs V, as the relevant mortgages are in both
their names, our dealings have been with Mr V. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision.
Mr V applied to remortgage the house with HSBC in early February 2022. He made more
than one application for this property, and lending on this was eventually refused. Mr V
complains that HSBC didnt tell him how to apply if he wanted to secure a particular interest
rate, and says he doesnt understand why the lending was turned down. Mr V also
complained about delays in his application to remortgage the flat. Finally Mr V said that
through both applications, it was difficult to contact HSBC, and when he tried to ask HSBC
what it wanted him to do, it just couldnt help him. He also thought both properties had been
undervalued by HSBC.
HSBC has issued four final response letters on Mr Vs complaints. It has also accepted that
our service can consider the issues raised in all of these letters.
On 1 April 2022, HSBC set out the stages of Mr Vs first application for the house. It said that
Mr V hadnt secured a rate, documentation was outstanding, and he had withdrawn this
application once he realised that rates had risen. HSBC said it wouldnt honour the rate that
Mr V heard about when he first talked to HSBC about a remortgage, in early February. Mr V
said he wasnt told he could complete an application online, which would reserve a rate, but
HSBC said it had offered Mr V the choice of an online application or advice over the phone,
and hed chosen phone advice. So it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
On 28 April, HSBC said Mr Vs application for the house had been declined. It said it couldnt
share with him detailed information about why it had reached this decision. This letter noted
Mr V had then submitted a new application, and it was still waiting for some documentation
for that. It said Mr V had actually made multiple online applications for the same property,
and it suggested Mr V should delete any applications he no longer wanted to continue with.
On 29 July, HSBC said it was sorry it hadnt replied to emails and phone contact from Mr V
after he was told that his application for a mortgage on the house had been refused. And
HSBC accepted it had caused a delay in providing an offer for Mr Vs flat. The offer was
ready on 6 June 2022 but wasnt generated until 28 June 2022. HSBC said it understood Mr
V had paid more on his old mortgage because of that, so it offered him £200 to apologise.
On 13 September, HSBC said it now had two mortgages live on its system for Mr V (the
second of these mortgages is presumably for Mr and Mrs Vs home, which they were
remortgaging at the same time). HSBC apologised for sending Mr V a letter telling him that
his mortgage offer had expired, although it had in fact completed.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought HSBC had dealt
with Mr Vs complaint fairly.
Our investigator thought HSBC told Mr V at his mortgage advice appointment for the house
that until a full application is completed, rates arent agreed. And Mr Vs first application for
the house wasnt completed, it was withdrawn after two rate rises. Our investigator said
HSBC did offer Mr V either an online or advised application, and an online application still
wouldnt have secured rates, as those werent secured until the full application was done,
and an offer made.
Our investigator said Mr V then applied online for a mortgage for the house. Multiple online
applications were done by Mr V, which seems to have caused problems at HSBC. On 30
March, Mr V was told this application had been refused. Mr V contacted HSBC to discuss
this, and it didnt get back in touch. Mr V supplied further information, but he received a
further letter declining his application on 3 May 2022.
Our investigator said its for the bank to decide who to lend to, and it doesnt have to provide
full reasons for the decision it makes. Our investigator said hed checked the review process
HSBC had done, and thought it had been fair and reasonable.
Our investigator noted that Mr V also experienced delays in his application for the flat. Mr V
said hed expected the valuation to be much higher, and thought the low figure was because
of the surveyors links with HSBC. Our investigator said he didnt think HSBC had provided a
formal reply on the lack of any appeal against valuations, but he said that he could see
HSBC had instructed professional valuers, and it was entitled to rely on the report that such
a professional produced. Our service cant look at what the valuer did.
Our investigator said that Mr V had continued to discuss his application for the flat with
HSBC, and he did then get the requested borrowing for this property. There were system
issues which prevented the offer document being produced, perhaps as a result of the
number of applications Mr V had opened. Our investigator said there were seven open at
one point, and this seemed to have caused confusion, including over how many BTL
properties Mr V owned.
The issue was logged with HSBCs IT department and the mortgage offer document was
produced on 28 June 2022 for the flat. HSBC accepted there was a 22-day delay from 6 to
28 June 2022 in generating the mortgage offer due to an IT system error.
HSBC also accepted it mistakenly told Mr V his mortgage offer had expired, when it had
completed. Our investigator thought an apology for this was enough to put things right.
Our investigator noted HSBC had offered £200 for delays in making the offer for the flat, and
£100 for difficulties in the application for the house, so £300 in total. He thought that offer
was fair. He didnt think HSBC had to honour the original interest rate. He didnt think it had
done anything wrong in cancelling Mr Vs initial phone application for the house, or then
declining the online application for the house, when the underwriters decided this didnt meet
lending criteria. So our investigator didnt think HSBC had to pay more than it had offered.
Mr V didnt agree. He still thought HSBC should have told him he could obtain a DIP by
applying online, which he wouldnt get through taking a phone appointment with advice. He
said hed been told that a DIP would have secured a rate for 30 days. Mr V continued to say
that the process after the application was confusing, and hed never been told why hisapplication for the house was actually declined. He said he couldnt understand why the
application for the flat was successful, but the one for the house wasnt. He repeated that
communications from HSBC were confusing, and it couldnt help when he got in touch.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He still didnt think a DIP would have secured an
interest rate, and he said that each property application is assessed individually, including
factors relating to the property itself, so decisions can differ.
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision. And 
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
Advice on the different application methods
Mr V said on his first application, for the house, he was never told that if he applied 
online he would receive a decision in principle (DIP), which would secure a rate before 
the full application was done, but if he applied through a mortgage advisor, then no rate 
would be secured for him until his full application was completed.
Our advisor thought that the rate wouldnt have been secured until an offer was made,
however Mr V applied. But I dont think thats quite right.
Lenders are, broadly speaking, obliged to honour the rate set out in a mortgage offer, if 
that mortgage goes ahead. They arent obliged to honour the rate set out in any earlier 
documentation, including the DIP. But some lenders do honour the rate set out in a DIP.
HSBC said this when it considered Mr Vs complaint -
process is different in that docs need to be seen by MA (mortgage advisor) before
application whereas online rate can be selected before docs
So that does make me think that if Mr V had applied online, hed have received a DIP, 
which would have reserved a rate for him.
However, Mr V has only ever suggested that this would have secured a rate for 30 days. 
We know he didnt supply all the documents HSBC needed during this time. So I think 
that the result would still have been the same if Mr V had applied online. He would still 
have lost the rates available when he first spoke to HSBC, because it took too long for 
him to get together the documents HSBC wanted.
If Mr V wouldnt have got lending at the lower rate anyway, because the documents 
HSBC wanted to see werent available in the time a DIP would have been valid for, then 
I dont think I can hold HSBC responsible for Mr V missing out on the rate he initially 
discussed with it. So, although I do think HSBC could have given Mr V better information 
and guidance when he booked his mortgage appointment, I dont think it has to cover 
any increased mortgage costs he now faces, because of that.
I think that a payment of £100 in compensation would be a fair way to resolve this 
complaint point. This would be additional to HSBCs offer for this complaint.
Eventual refusal of lending on the houseMr V withdrew his advised application for the house on 2 March, and he then submitted 
an online mortgage application. At the end of March 2022, he was told this application 
had been turned down. This may have been because, at this time, HSBC thought Mr V 
had more BTL properties, and that fell outside of its lending criteria, or it may have been 
because of concerns about what it could see on his credit file.
Mr V said after this, he tried to contact HSBC, and it just wouldnt reply. But I can see 
after this date HSBC noted that Mr and Mrs V only owned two BTL properties, and it 
received and considered his comments about some unrecognised credit searches on 
his credit file. 
Mr V then received a second decline letter, sent on 3 May. Ive asked HSBC why this 
letter was sent, and its said that it didnt think Mr V had ever reapplied for lending on the 
house. I dont think thats right. I think the contact notes and documents Ive seen from 
HSBC mean its likely that Mr V was still seeking lending on the house at this time. And 
the reference number on the letter sent on 30 March, declining lending on the house, is 
the same as the refence number on the letter of 3 May. So I do think HSBC wrote to 
Mr V again in May, turning down his lending request for the house again.
I think it would have been helpful if HSBC could explain this, and its added to the 
confusion in this case that it hasnt yet done so. But, I also note that Mr V had been 
asked to supply a considerable amount of information for this borrowing, including a 
revised rental agreement and proof of increased rent income. I cant see this 
documentation was sent. So on the evidence Ive seen to date, I dont think HSBC made 
a mistake in turning down Mr Vs lending request at this time.
I should note here that Mr V can supply more information on this point if he wishes. If he 
does want to send more information, it would be helpful to know what documentation he 
sent to HSBC, and when. And it would be helpful if Mr V could send that documentation 
to our service now.
If Mr V supplies evidence to show all requested documentation for this application was
supplied, I will reconsider on this point. Otherwise, I know Mr V has been offered £100 
for confusion surrounding the application for the house, but considering the extent of this
confusion, and that it does seem to continue now, I think a payment of £200 would be 
fair and reasonable to resolve this issue. Thats £100 more than HSBC has offered.
Valuations on the properties
Mr V said the valuation on both properties was much lower than he was expecting. Our 
investigator explained that our service cant look at what the surveyor did, the remit of 
our service doesnt extend to surveyors. But we can check that HSBC did what wed 
expect it to do. Wed expect it to instruct a firm with the appropriate professional 
qualifications, and then to rely on the advice that those professionals gave. And on the 
evidence Ive seen to date, I think HSBC did that. I know Mr V found the valuations 
disappointing, but I think HSBC has done what our service would expect.
Delay in making a mortgage offer for the flat
HSBC accepts it delayed in producing the mortgage offer for Mr Vs flat, so he paid a 
higher rate on his other mortgage for 22 days. HSBC did ask Mr V for details of the extra 
costs hed paid, but I cant see that Mr V supplied these. HSBC has offered Mr V £200 
for this.If Mr V wants to submit evidence showing that the delay cost him more than this, I would 
ask him to send details of the mortgage costs and lending amounts he was paying for 
the flat before this remortgage. It would be helpful to see details of the monthly payment 
he and Mrs V made in the month before their new mortgage with HSBC was agreed, 
and the lending amount on that mortgage. If Mr V sends that, then Ill reconsider on this 
point. But on the evidence Ive seen so far, I think HSBCs existing offer of £200 is fair.
Letter sent saying mortgage offer had expired 
HSBC wrote to Mr V on 28 July to say the mortgage offer for the flat had been 
withdrawn. As this mortgage had already been drawn down on 18 July, I think this letter 
was simply a mistake, and one which is unlikely to have had a significant impact on Mr 
and Mrs V. For that reason, I think HSBCs apology for this mistake does make up for 
whats gone wrong here. 
Difficulties in contacting HSBC
Mr V was discussing the remortgage of three separate properties with HSBC at once  
two BTL properties and his home. Additionally, he made multiple online applications for 
the same property. I think this could be expected to cause some confusion. On 28 April, 
Mr V was advised to close down all the applications he wasnt proceeding with.
Mr V contacted HSBC on various occasions asking for advice on what documentation 
he should submit. I dont think that HSBCs written requests were unclear. And I can see 
that Mr V doesnt appear to have accepted that HSBC would not simply carry forward 
information it held elsewhere, or from previous applications, for his current application.
I havent been able to see that HSBC has fallen below an acceptable level of customer
service on this issue, and I wont ask it to do more here.
Summary and resolution
For the reasons set out above, I currently think that HSBC should pay a total of £500 in
compensation, made up of £100 for issues arising out of HSBCs advice on the different
application methods; £200 for difficulties with the application for the house, including 
failure to explain the second mortgage refusal letter Mr V received, and £200 for delays 
in producing the offer for the flat.
I understand that HSBC hasnt yet paid in line with its previous offers, so I will include 
those in my award. But I will allow HSBC to count towards that award anything it has 
paid, in case Mr and Mrs V accepted that offer more recently.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Only HSBC replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it had now located the call where Mr V had booked his mortgage advice 
appointment, and it sent that recording to us. It said that it wanted to query the level of 
information which I would expect to be given in such a call. Ive listened to that call, and I can hear HSBC giving Mr V information on the rates it had 
available at the time. Mr V listened carefully to that, and then told HSBC what rate he 
thought he would want. 
HSBC then asked if Mr V would like and advised appointment or not. It didnt offer an 
explanation of the different implications of the two routes. It did tell Mr V that only some of its 
advisors could deal with BTL mortgages, so hed have to wait until the next qualified advisor 
was available. 
My decision is not that HSBC should always explain in full on an initial call, the different 
implications that advised and non-advised sales of mortgages might involve. But here, given 
that there was likely to be a more extended delay in this case, and that Mr V doesnt appear 
to have been warned that the rates which had been read out to him werent going to be held 
for him, I do think it would have helped in this case for more explanation to have been given 
to Mr V about the impact of the choice he was asked to make. 
For the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr and Mrs V £500 in compensation, 
made up as set out above. HSBC UK Bank Plc can count towards that amount any payment 
it has already made to Mr and Mrs V for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman