DRN-4495072
The complaint
Mr Z complains that esure Insurance Limited increased his premium for his motor insurance 
policy after he bought it online and that it breached his data privacy. He wants £800 
compensation for his trouble and upset.
What happened
Mr Z applied for a policy with esure through an online comparison site. But he said that when 
he took out the policy, the payments required on the policy schedule were different to what 
he had been offered. He said he couldnt get an explanation from esure and his complaints 
went unanswered. He was also unhappy that an agent left another customers details on his 
voicemail. 
esure offered to cancel Mr Zs policy and set up a new policy with a lower price. But Mr Z 
was unhappy that this would mean that he had to pay his deposit again. Mr Z decided to 
cancel the policy and he received a full refund, and the cancellation fee was waived. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt see 
evidence that the price quoted online was different to that on Mr Zs payment schedule. And 
she didnt see evidence that Mr Zs data had been breached. She thought esures offer of a 
new policy at a lower price and the cancellation without charge were fair and reasonable.
Mr Z replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Z said the policy he applied for online had a lower premium and he could change the 
payment date, which wasnt offered by his policy with esure. 
I can see that Mr Z is adamant that there was a price increase after he bought his policy. But 
Ive seen no evidence to show this. esure has told us that the process from acceptance is 
automated and so the price wouldnt increase. And I havent heard esures agent tell Mr Z 
there was any glitch that caused an error, as Mr Z recalled. 
Mr Z thought his first payment shouldnt have been taken until six weeks after the policy start 
date. But I can see that this was required a month after the policy start date, which I think is 
standard practice with credit agreements. esure also told Mr Z that his payment date could 
be changed. 
So I havent seen any evidence that esure misled Mr Z about the price of his policy or his 
payment schedule. 
Mr Z was unhappy with esures response to his complaint. But I can see that esure listened 
to Mr Zs concerns. esure investigated his complaint and it provided a response. And it 
offered to cancel his policy without applying the £26 cancellation fee if he took out a new, 
cheaper policy, which I think was very fair and reasonable. 
Mr Z initially declined this offer as he would have to pay his deposit before he received his 
refund. But he later decided to cancel his policy and the cancellation fee was then waived. 
So I cant say that esure did anything wrong in this. 
Mr Z thought esure had breached his privacy by leaving another customers name on his 
voicemail. But this wasnt a breach of Mr Zs data, so I cant consider his complaint about 
this. 
And so, as I havent seen evidence that esure has done anything wrong, I dont require 
esure to pay Mr Z any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman