DRN-2254098
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1997 in connection with his mortgage. 
  
What happened
Mr P complained that he didnt know PPI was optional; he was told he had to have it to get 
the mortgage. He says he didnt need it as he could have relied on his fathers savings. He 
bought PPI for accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Mr P said the mortgage was originally taken out in joint names in August 1996 with another 
account holder who has since died. Mr P said that Lloyds Bank did not issue the mortgage 
correctly and no repayments were taken, so he saved the mortgage repayments for around 
five months. He reported the error to Lloyds Bank and it then issued a mortgage to him in his 
sole name in January 1997. He adds that he had the saved mortgage repayments to pay 
towards the new mortgage  so he did not need the PPI.
Lloyds Bank rejected Mr Ps complaint and said it only had records of a mortgage in Mr Ps 
sole name in 1997  so I will only be looking at the mortgage taken out in 1997 in this 
decision.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like he was 
offered an optional policy and it was suitable for his needs when it was taken out. Our 
adjudicator said the information might have been clearer but concludes Mr P probably would 
have bought the PPI anyway.
Mr P disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I know this will 
be a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Lloyds Bank should have made Mr P aware he had a choice in buying the policy. Mr P says 
he was not aware the policy was optional because he was told he had to buy the PPI to get 
the mortgage  so he felt pressured to buy PPI.  Neither Lloyds Bank nor Mr P have any PPI 
paperwork showing the advice given at the time of the sale in 1997. I dont think thats 
surprising given that the sale took place around 23 years ago. But it does mean I have 
limited information about what happened at the sale, so I have to decide what I think is more 
likely to have happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Lloyds Bank sold policies like this at the time I think its 
likely the optional nature would have been made clear. And Mr P hasnt persuaded me that 
Lloyds Bank didnt follow its normal process here or that it pressured him to buy the policy. 
So overall, I think its more likely Lloyds Bank made it clear to Mr P he had a choice about 
the PPI, and he agreed to buy it. 
Lloyds Bank said the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for 
Mr Ps needs. In this case, I think it was suitable for Mr P because he was eligible for the PPI 
policy, it seems the policy was affordable for him at the time and, it doesnt look like he was 
affected by the main exclusions and limitations in the policy. 
I then looked into his financial circumstances at the time of the sale to see if the policy was 
still suitable for him.
Mr P said he was self-employed, and he told us he had savings of around £5,000.00, so he 
says he didnt need PPI. I accept he had probably saved some mortgage repayments in 
1996, but this would have only been around £1,000.00. So I think he probably had around 
£6,000.00 in savings (which is the information he gave to Lloyds Bank). 
However, having decided he probably chose to have PPI, I think Mr P probably thought the 
policy provided a valuable benefit to him. I say this because the PPI could have paid out for 
a period of 12 months which means it could have lasted longer than his savings at a time 
when he might have needed it most. I also think it was useful for Mr P to be able to rely on 
the PPI policy for mortgage repayments instead of using his other funds which could be used 
for other expenses. So I dont think his finances at the time of the sale made the policy 
unsuitable.  
Mr P also said he could have relied on his fathers savings. He said his father had around 
£40,000.00 in savings and would have lent it to him if he couldnt make the mortgage 
repayments  although, due to the time thats passed - Mr P has not been able to produce 
any evidence of the savings his father held in 1997. I do understand Mr Ps point about his 
fathers savings, but there was no guarantee that he could rely on this support at some 
unknown point in the future of the full mortgage term. So I dont think his fathers savings 
made the policy unsuitable for Mr P.
I also looked at whether Lloyds Bank gave Mr P enough clear information about the policy. 
In respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear whether the documents set these out. But 
having said that, I dont know how the cost and benefits were actually explained to him in the 
meeting. So as Ive decided he chose to have PPI and that it was suitable and affordable for 
him, I dont think that having more detailed information about the cost and benefits would 
have put him off from taking out the policy.
It also isnt clear if all the exclusions and limitations were brought to Mr Ps attention. But as I 
think he wasnt affected by the main exclusions and limitations to the policy, I dont think he 
would have decided not to buy PPI even if hed been given a full list of the exclusions. 
Taking everything into account, I think he was probably aware PPI was optional and he 
consented to buy it. I think that it was suitable for his circumstances and that he probably 
had enough clear information to make a decision about it. So Im not going to uphold this 
complaint.
 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission where PPI was sold.
 The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
Lloyds Bank said Mr Ps mortgage ended before 6 April 2008. So based on what Ive said 
above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the 
Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-
disclosure of commission apply here.
So Lloyds Bank doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr P paid for the PPI he had 
with his mortgage.
 
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr P. Its always difficult to decide a 
complaint on very little information. But Ive thought very carefully about what Mr P has said 
and about what I know of Lloyds Banks sales processes. And I dont think  on balance  I 
can fairly and reasonably uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman