DRN-3895891
The complaint
Mr L complains that NewDay Ltd failed to protect his account and initially held him liable for 
the debt caused by fraudulent transactions on his account. There was then a failure to 
properly administer the account for several months.
What happened
Mr L held a credit card with NewDay called Fluid. The account was set up to take a direct 
debit payment from another bank account held by Mr L to pay towards the credit card on a 
monthly basis.
Mr L received a letter from his bank in February 2022 that the direct debit requested by 
NewDay had been returned because there were insufficient funds in his account. The direct 
debit was for £13,000. Mr L realised there was a problem as he didnt recognise this amount 
of spending on his account and his credit limit at the time was substantially less than 
£13,000.
Mr L contacted NewDay about the issue which they looked into for him. NewDay sent a letter 
to Mr L telling him that his account had been subject to fraud, and he wasnt responsible for 
the disputed transactions. Mr L denied ever receiving this letter.
Mr Ls account had been manipulated by unknown third parties and notes from NewDay 
show that there were concerns about the account the previous month (January 2022), but it 
appears that no contact was made with Mr L at the time.
The account had been changed, including the address for correspondence and a number of 
NewDays letters over the subsequent months were sent to various addresses unconnected 
with Mr L. There were also some letters and statements that were sent to Mr L at his 
registered address. 
Mr L stated that he was told not to pay towards his outstanding balance on the account 
whilst the fraud investigation was taking place. NewDay later apologised for this and advised 
Mr L that he was required to pay towards his balance (the account had legitimate charges 
against it incurred by Mr L prior to the fraudulent transactions).
Mr L received requests for payment against the account that appeared to be incorrect and 
due to the advice hed been given, the account wasnt maintained and the debt was sent out 
to a collection agency. Mr L was contacted on numerous occasions concerning the 
outstanding debt.
Mr L made a complaint to NewDay about the way they handled his account and the amounts 
he was being asked to repay. NewDay wrote to Mr L and accepted that theyd let him down, 
paying him £80 compensation and writing some charges and interest off related to the 
fraudulent funds/late payment.
Mr L remained unhappy and continued to ask NewDay about what had happened to allow 
his account to go over its limit by about three times his credit limit. Mr L also told NewDay 
that the situation had left him, and his wife stressed. Mr L said hed taken several hours on 
the phone and writing letters to try and get to the bottom of how his account was 
compromised.
Numerous letters were sent by Mr L and he received further responses from NewDay, 
addressing the points raised by him. NewDay provided a further £40 in compensation. 
NewDay issued a third and final response to Mr L ( introducing the letter to a completely 
different person) turning down Mr Ls remaining points.
Over the course of the complaint, NewDay corrected the outstanding debt to show the 
correct amount (removing various charges), provided third party notice to a fraud prevention 
service, updated their reporting to the credit refence agencies and paid Mr L £120 
compensation.
Mr L was unsatisfied with NewDays approach to his complaint and brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of 
our investigators. Mr L wanted the outstanding debt writing off and more compensation.
Information from both parties was received and considered before the investigator wrote his 
recommendations about the complaint. He thought that NewDay had caused Mr L continued 
stress and trouble through their handling of the complaint and recommended an additional 
payment to Mr L of £400 but didnt uphold Mr Ls point about the outstanding debt.
NewDay thought the amount was too high and offered a further £150 payment to Mr L on the 
basis that theyd corrected their mistakes and reopened the account.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than it may merit.  
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects 
which impact the decision Im making.
It's in agreement that Mr L was the victim of an account takeover, starting in December 
2021. NewDays notes show that they had some concerns about transactions and changes 
to the account in January 2022. As far as Im aware, NewDay didnt raise this with Mr L at 
the time. The first time he became aware of it was in February 2022 when his own bank 
declined the direct debit for over £13,000.
Ive no doubt that this came as a shock to Mr L because his credit limit at the time was 
substantially less than that. Once he notified NewDay about the issue, they wrote to him 
within a couple of weeks about it, although Mr L denied receiving that letter.
That letter told Mr L that they werent holding him responsible for the disputed transactions 
but didnt give much detail about what was to happen next, apart from a listing with a fraud 
prevention service to aid in the ongoing protection of Mr Ls finances.Various letters and statements were sent out, but unfortunately to different addresses that 
appear to have been updated by whoever took over the account. Mr L also received 
requests for the outstanding balance that hadnt fully taken into the account the disputed 
transactions which caused NewDay to seek a large payment from him.
Mr L says he was told not to make payments towards his account whilst the investigation 
was ongoing, but this turned out to be incorrect advice because Mr L had legitimate 
payments charged to the account which he was required to repay as part of the agreement.
He's asked for this to be written off, but I wont be asking NewDay to do that as it wouldnt be  
fair or reasonable to ask them to take the loss themselves. Thats because the outstanding 
debt is made up of transactions originally authorised by Mr L and not linked to the account 
takeover. Hes required to repay those to NewDay, and I understand theyve accepted Mr L 
can continue to make monthly payments against the debt.
From reading those letters addressed to Mr Ls proper address, its apparent that he was 
only sent information (apart from the fraud response) related to account statements and 
various defaults and the closure of his card. There wasnt much in the way of explanations 
about what had happened until the three complaint response letters were sent starting in 
April and ending in August 2022.
NewDay accepted that the wording of some of those letters could have been better. Overall 
here, the communication with Mr L was less than ideal, causing Mr L unnecessary stress in 
the way that they handled the issue. I accept that NewDay werent responsible for the 
disputed transactions, but it appears they had some inkling of an issue in January but didnt 
follow up with their concerns, effectively allowing Mr L to be unaware of a problem with his 
account. NewDay told Mr L they would have taken the £13,000 payment if the funds were in 
his account  which would have been quite a shock. Fortunately that didnt happen, but 
having thought about how NewDay could have prevented some of the stress to Mr L, and 
their lack of care when dealing with the aftermath of the debt, Im in agreement with the 
investigators recommendations they pay a further £400 to Mr L.
I do recognise the positive aspects of NewDays actions, including the writing of off any 
charges linked to the disputed transactions, updating the credit file for Mr L which shows no 
adverse information about him, lodging information with the fraud prevention service and 
paying Mr L an initial amount of compensation. But, I think they could have acted with more 
accuracy here and dealt with the problem sooner, rather than the extended months of worry 
and stress caused to Mr L by the incorrect information provided to him and NewDays lack of 
care.
Putting things right
NewDay should now pay Mr L a further £400 for the unnecessary worry caused to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and NewDay Ltd are instructed to settle it as 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
David PerryOmbudsman