DRN-2114674
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Covea Insurance plc avoided (cancelled as if it never existed) her 
landlord insurance policy and refused to settle her claim.
Mrs S has been represented by her granddaughter, Miss S, and her husband, Mr S, at 
various points throughout the claim and complaint. 
What happened
Mrs S had a property she rented out to tenants. She had an insurance policy with Covea to 
cover this property. This incepted in April 2018.
In early 2018 Miss S, Mrs S granddaughter, took over the running of the property and 
management of the tenants due to Mrs S age and ill health. In March Miss S visited the 
property to inspect it. She found a number of repairs that needed to be carried out, some of 
which she arranged to do and some the tenants agreed to do themselves.
In October 2018 the tenants left after being handed notice of eviction. When Miss S visited 
the property after their departure, she found they had left the property in a poor state. She 
believed they had purposefully vandalised the property due to the fact they had been 
evicted. She made a claim on behalf of Mrs S on her insurance with Covea.
Covea sent two loss adjusters out to inspect the property, as well as interviewing Miss S, 
Mrs S and her husband Mr S. They then declined the claim and avoided the policy. Covea 
said that Mr S had made a misrepresentation when he had taken out the policy on behalf of 
Mrs S. It said he was asked if the property was in a good state of repair and he had 
answered yes. However it said that Miss S visit in March had shown them that the tenants 
werent keeping the property in a good state of repair. Covea said it wouldnt have provided 
the cover if it had known this when it was taken out. So it said it would cancel the policy as if 
it never existed and wouldnt pay the claim. It also said there had been a number of 
inconsistencies throughout the claim that led them to believe the claim may have been 
fraudulent.
Miss S didnt think this was fair. She said her and the tenants had agreed to fix the problems 
found in March, so Mr S wasnt making a misrepresentation when he said the property was 
in a good state of repair.
Covea didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr S would have been aware of the problems 
identified by Miss S during her visit in March 2018 and therefore made a misrepresentation 
when answering the question.  It said if it had known the extent of the problems identified 
then it wouldnt have provided cover. It therefore said it was right to avoid the policy.
Miss S didnt think this was fair and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said from looking at the photos of the damage found by Miss S in March 2018 she didnt 
think it was significant and Miss S had provided text messages and invoices to show the 
work had been addressed. She said she therefore didnt agree that Mr S had made a 
misrepresentation when taking out the policy and so it wasnt fair for Covea to avoid the 
policy. 
Covea didnt agree. It said it thought the number of issues identified in the visit in March 
show the property wasnt in a good state of repair. And it didnt think the invoice and receipts 
Miss S had provided would amount to enough for all the repair work necessary. Covea 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea has said that Mr S, on behalf of Mrs S, didnt make a fair presentation of the risk 
when taking out the insurance policy. It says it wouldnt have offered cover if it had known 
the true condition of the property.
When considering whether Mr S did make a misrepresentation the relevant law to consider 
is the Insurance Act 2015. This states that policy holders must make a fair presentation of 
the risk when taking out a commercial policy. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, the 
act says a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought to know, 
that would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on 
what terms.
In this case Covea say that the property the insurance was for was not in a good state of 
repair and Mr S ought to have known this. And therefore he made a misrepresentation by 
saying it was. 
I have considered whether the property could fairly be described as in a good state of 
repair. The policy doesnt give a definition of this phrase, however I think its reasonable to 
define it as being in a good condition and well maintained. 
The evidence Covea has relied upon is the visit Miss S made to the property in March 2018, 
as this was just before the policy was taken out. During the visit Miss S documented the 
problems she had come across and took photos of anything that needed repairing. I can see 
there were a number of items identified, such as broken door hinges and a radiator that was 
coming away from the wall. But I dont agree there was anything that suggested the house 
was in a particularly bad state of repair at that time. Although photos of the issues show 
there were clearly some repairs that needed doing, photos that show full rooms show that 
the house was in a generally good condition, apart from the identified problem areas.
Further, Miss S has explained that the reason she took over the management of the property 
was because of Mrs S poor health, So I think its likely Mrs S hadnt been visiting the 
property regularly in recent times. So I dont think its surprising there were some repairs that 
needed attending to.
Miss S has also provided text messages between herself and one of the tenants agreeing 
how the problems will be rectified. And she has provided receipts for work that was carried 
out in March. So although there were a number of issues that Miss S identified on her visit, I 
am satisfied that these were likely addressed at this time. Further, the fact that a visit was 
carried out, photos were taken and action agreed demonstrates Miss S willing to ensure the 
property is kept in a good state. Further, Mr S was aware of Miss S visit to the property and the repairs carried out. So the 
fact that the property had recently been attended and repaired would give him reason to be 
confident that he was answering correctly when he said the property was in a good state of 
repairs.
Covea has said that shortly after the insurance was taken out, Mrs S gave notice to her 
tenants that they would be evicted and it says this was because Miss S had seen they 
werent maintaining the property on her visit. Miss S has said that she had some concerns 
about how the tenants were cleaning and airing the property. And this formed part of her 
directions to them after her visit. However she has also explained that the tenants had been 
in rent arrears for a while and that this was the main reason for the eviction.
For these reasons I think Mr S, on behalf of Mrs S, gave a fair presentation of risk when 
describing the property as in a good state of repair. So I dont think Covea has acted fairly by 
avoiding the policy. 
Covea has also said it doesnt think the damage claimed for is malicious damage. It says this 
is just further evidence that the tenants werent keeping the house well maintained and it has 
said in its declinature letter that it considered the claim to be fraudulent. I have considered 
this and although I can see that the some of the damage may have been due to wear and 
tear, I dont agree this applies to it all. 
The term malicious damage isnt defined in the policy, however I think a reasonable 
definition is damage that is done deliberately with the intention to cause harm. The damage 
shown in the photos taken after the tenants were evicted is of a different nature to the 
damage at the inspection in March. One photo shows the pond in the garden filled in with 
broken up slabs from the garden. And another shows damage to the kitchen work surfaces 
that is far beyond wear and tear and appears to be intentional. So although there may have 
been some areas of the house that werent maintained well, I am persuaded that at least 
some of the damage left when the tenants were evicted was done deliberately with the 
intention to cause harm. And I dont agree there is enough evidence for Covea to fairly say 
the 
For this reason I agree with our investigator that Covea should reinstate Mrs S policy and 
consider her claim for malicious damage, in line with the policy terms and conditions. If any 
successful claim is settled by a cash settlement, 8% simple interest should be paid from the 
date of the claim to the date of the settlement to make up for the time Mrs S was without the 
money. I also require Covea to remove any fraud markers from internal and external 
records.
I have also considered the impact this has had on Mrs S. Covea has carried out a thorough 
investigation into the matter, which I would expect given its reservations about the claim. 
However from looking at the correspondence from Covea the tone it took was quite heavy 
handed, in particular the 16 page declination letter which went through phone conversations 
line by line. Although I understand the need to ensure an insurance claim is honest, and I 
can see there were some inconsistencies in different conversations, Covea appeared to take 
no account of natural memory lapses after the passage of time. I think it would have been 
very distressing for Mrs S to be in receipt of such correspondence especially considering her 
age and ill health. For this reason, I will also require Covea to pay Mrs S £400 compensation 
to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given, I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Reinstate Mrs S policy and consider the claim for malicious damage in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
If any part of the a successful claim is cash settled then Covea should pay 8% simple 
interest on all amounts from the date the claim was made until the payment is made.
Remove any fraud markers from internal or external databases. 
Pay Mrs S £400 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman