DRN-2984298
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the charges Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor 
Finance (Close Brothers) have asked him to pay to refurbish a car he had been financing 
through them. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Y acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr Y responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. I think all the damage is in excess of the BVRLA 
guidance.
The BVRLA guidelines are for new vehicles and Id therefore expect Close Brothers 
to take into account the fact that this car was already ten years old when supplied. I 
think a reasonable person wouldnt expect it to have been in perfect order at that 
point.
Close Brothers havent provided evidence to show what condition the car was in 
when it was supplied but theyve explained that they wouldnt expect it to have had 
the sort of damage it showed during the final inspection. Theyve also explained that 
they waived some charges in consideration of the age of the car.
I think its important to consider the purpose of the legislation here. The legislation 
allows the business to recoup losses they may make as a result of the car not being 
returned in the condition they expected. The car sold for more than its CAP valuation, 
so there probably wasnt a loss to Close Brothers.
I think it was therefore fair for Close Brothers to take that resale valuation into 
account and that they shouldnt have levied the charge they did. A reasonable person 
wouldnt expect the car to be in optimum condition; the condition was clearly good 
enough to attract an acceptable resale value and the business didnt loose out as a 
result. 
 
Putting things right
Mr Y has been prepared to split the difference and just about half the outstanding charge by 
removing the charge for the cracked light and the scratched door mirror. I would agree with 
the investigator that this is a fair and reasonable remedy in the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Close Brothers 
Limited to:
remove the charge they have made for the cracked light and scratched door mirror;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ys credit file in relation to 
this issue. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman