DRN-3719494
The complaint
Mr N has complained about the valuation Covea Insurance plc paid when it settled a total 
loss claim against Mr Ns car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ns car was damaged in an incident and he made a claim to his insurer, Covea. 
Covea said it wasnt economical to repair Mr Ns car and so it reached a valuation and paid a 
total loss settlement to Mr N. The valuation Covea initially offered was £3,600 which Mr N 
rejected. Covea increased the valuation to a final sum of £7,000.
Mr N said this wasnt enough to reflect the value of his car. He said it was a classic car, had 
only one previous owner and had a full service history. Mr N said Covea suggested a value 
for the car of around £10,000 when he first bought the policy in May 2020. He said since 
subsequent renewals, he had carried out further works to the car which he believes 
increased its value. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. She found the policy 
Mr N held with Covea was a market value policy and not an agreed value policy. So the 
most Covea was obligated to pay in the event of a total loss was the market value of Mr Ns 
car. Having looked at what Covea relied on to reach its valuation, she thought it had acted 
reasonably. So she didnt recommend Covea increase the total loss settlement beyond 
£7,000.
Mr N didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. He says Covea has disregarded an 
identical car to his advertised for sale at £9,995. Mr N believes Covea should take into 
account the fact that his car had only one previous owner. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer reached a valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Ns policy with Covea says the most it will pay in the event of a total loss claim is the 
market value of the car at the time of loss. Covea defines the term market value as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle with a vehicle of the same make, model, 
specification, age, mileage and condition as your vehicle was immediately before the 
loss or damage you are claiming for. Where we are unable to estimate the market 
value of your vehicle we will use the nearest market equivalent for comparison.
I appreciate that Mr N was asked by an agent as to the estimated value of his car when he 
bought the policy. This isnt unusual as some insurers have a valuation limit in line with the 
risk it is prepared to underwrite. I think from the policy wording that Covea made it clear it 
wasnt an agreed value policy. 
Due to the age of Mr Ns car, there were limited valuation guides available from the main 
motor trade guides. The engineer recommended an initial settlement sum which Mr N 
rejected. Covea was able to obtain a motor trade valuation based on the same specification, 
make, mileage and model of Mr Ns car and this was based on the car being in good 
condition. The guide produced a valuation of £4,630. Covea has since increased the 
settlement offer to £7,000, taking into account the information Mr N provided by way of 
online adverts for cars of the same make as his. 
Mr N says Covea didnt take into consideration adverts for similar cars on line which were for 
sale for much more than the total loss settlement offered. 
Ive looked at the examples and what Covea said about this. The mileage for the example 
cars for sale (for more than the settlement sum) was considerably lower than Mr Ns car. I 
understand Mr N believes the fact that his car had only one previous owner should have 
made a difference. But its clear from the adverts and what the guides take into consideration 
that significantly more weight is given to the mileage of the car - as this ultimately reflects 
how much the car has been used - over how many owners it has had. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr N. But I think Covea has reached its valuation reasonably, in line 
with the policy and our approach to valuation complaints. So Im not asking it to increase the 
settlement to more than £7,000 as a reasonable market value for his car. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman