DRN-1740939
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about Ulster Bank Ltd's decision to close his accounts. 
What happened
Mr S had a current account, two savings accounts and a credit card with Ulster Bank. On 21 
February 2020 Ulster Bank wrote to Mr S to say it had taken the decision to end its banking 
relationship with him. Ulster Bank gave Mr S 60 days notice of its intention to close his 
accounts and said he should make alternative banking arrangements. 
Mr S complained and Ulster Bank responded on 11 March 2020. Ulster Bank said its 
decision to close Mr S accounts stood and was in line with the terms of his accounts. Mr S 
referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Ulster Bank had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and that its decision to close the accounts 
was in line with its terms and conditions. 
Mr S asked to appeal. In response to the investigator, Mr S said that Ulster Banks decision 
to close his account had been driven by a personal grudge from a member of staff following 
previous interactions. As Mr S didnt accept the investigators view, his case has been 
referred to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upset Mr S is by Ulster Banks decision. Id like to thank Mr S for the level of 
detail hes included in his submission and responses to our investigator. If I havent 
responded to each individual point Mr S has made its because Ive chosen to focus on what 
I feel are the key issues. But that doesnt mean I havent read and considered everything 
provided by both Mr S and Ulster Bank when reaching my decision. My approach reflects the 
informal nature of this service. 
Ive reviewed the relevant terms and conditions for all Mr S' accounts. Im not going to quote 
them here as I can see Mr S has been sent them already. But the terms allow Ulster Bank to 
close accounts by giving 60 days notice of its intention. Our service cant force a business to 
provide banking services where it has chosen to withdraw them, as long as it acts in line with 
the terms and conditions of the accounts. Im satisfied Ulster Bank gave sufficient notice, in 
line with the terms, and that it was entitled to take the decision to close Mr S accounts. 
Mr S says the decision to close his accounts was part of a personal grudge held by a 
member of staff. But Im not persuaded that is the case. The information Ive seen shows 
Ulster Bank chose to close Mr S account following a difficult branch visit. Ulster Bank has 
provided a statement that says its decision was taken after Mr S was abusive to branch staff 
members when a service he wished to use wasnt available. Whilst I note Mr S comments, I 
havent been persuaded that Ulster Banks decision was part of a personal grudge held by a 
member of staff. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im satisfied Ulster Banks decision to close his accounts 
was in line with the terms and conditions of his accounts and reasonable. As I havent found 
that Ulster Bank made a mistake or treated Mr S unfairly, Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman