DRN-4332520
The complaint
Miss D complains about the decision by Westfield Contributory Health Scheme to turn down 
her cash plan claim. 
What happened
Miss D took out the plan on 3 February 2023 with Westfield. The plan allows Miss D to claim 
money shes spent on certain medical expenses. The plan excludes any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Miss D made a claim after having acupuncture treatment. Westfield assessed the claim, and 
noted the acupuncturist said Miss D was first seen on 1 February 2023 for her stress and 
insomnia. As this was before the plan had started, Westfield turned down the claim and 
added an exclusion to the plan for insomnia and stress (as well as other pre-existing medical 
conditions that Miss Ds GP had told it about). Unhappy with Westfields decision to turn 
down her claim, Miss D brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Westfields 
decision to turn down the claim and apply the exclusions had been reasonable. 
Miss D didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of our investigator, and for these reasons:
Miss D applied for the plan online. Ive checked the information she was given when 
doing so, and Im satisfied the online application made it clear that the plan was only 
intended to cover new medical conditions (excluding claims for optical and dental). 
Miss D could then click on a link for more information about this, and needed to 
select a box to say she had read and understood the information about pre-existing 
medical conditions. The plan terms and conditions, and Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) also made it clear that the plan only covers new 
medical conditions. Im therefore satisfied Miss D understood she couldnt claim for 
conditions that existed before the plan started. 
Miss D met with the acupuncturist two days before the plan started. The 
acupuncturist told Westfield that Miss Ds treatment for insomnia and stress started 
on that date. Im satisfied it was reasonable for Westfield to rely on this and turn 
down the claim for acupuncturist treatment, as this was for pre-existing conditions. 
Ive noted Miss Ds comments that she now doesnt think she had insomnia. She 
says she had blocked channels which were helped by acupuncture, and her lack of 
sleep was a side effect of this. However, the acupuncturist told Westfield that Miss D 
had insomnia (regardless of the reasons for this) and so I find it was reasonable for 
Westfield to exclude this from cover as a pre-existing condition. I appreciate the 
insomnia wasnt diagnosed by a doctor, but I dont think it needs to have been. 
Miss D has questioned why Westfield paid her claim for new glasses, even though 
shed seen an optician before the plan started. The plan doesnt exclude pre-existing 
conditions for optical benefit, so I assume that is why Westfield paid for her glasses.
Whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint Miss D, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman