DRN-2883445
The complaint
Ms M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement
with Admiral Financial Services Ltd (Admiral).
Ms M has been represented by her brother throughout this complaint but for ease, and as
Ms M is named on the finance agreement, I will refer to her in this decision.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. An extract from that decision 
is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator suggested Admiral should repair the car, but I think Admiral need to allow
Ms M to reject it. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms M acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Admiral, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Ms M. The car here was just
over a year old and had only completed about 2,800 miles. So, I dont think a reasonable
person would expect it to have much wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first thirty days the
consumer can reject the car without the business having the option to repair the fault. I can
see from the email exchanges Ive been provided that although Ms M signed the finance
agreement on 14 September 2020 she wasnt able to collect her car until 2 October 2020.
And, on 9 December 2020 in an email to Admiral Ms M was complaining about problems
with the car that had required it to be returned to the dealership on three occasions.
So, there could have been an argument at that point that Ms M should be able to reject the
car. But Ms M accepted the repairs and the compensation the business offered and by doing
so she agreed to keep the car.
But the relevant legislation says that if repairs fail the consumer should be allowed to reject
the car. It does not give a business one chance to repair each separate fault that may occur.
Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality when supplied refers to the vehicle as a whole not
each separate component. Indeed, the more separate faults - the more likely it is the vehicle
isnt of satisfactory quality.
On 14 December 2020 email correspondence explains that the car was referred back to the
dealership with a coolant system issue and Ms M asked again to reject the vehicle.
At that point I think Admiral should have allowed the rejection as the car clearly wasnt of
satisfactory quality. I dont think Ms M accepted the repair at that point as I dont think
Admiral gave her any other option.
And, even if Im wrong about Admiral allowing Ms M to reject the car at that point. Ive seen
evidence that there have been further issues with the vehicle within the first six months of
ownership. A text message from the dealership confirms that theres been a need to replace
a limit switch on the bonnet; the coolant pump and also that wiring for the ambient lighting
has been repaired. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have so many issues
with a car that was only one year old and had completed less than three thousand miles
when supplied. The relevant legislation says we should consider whether a car has proven
to be suitably durable when we think about whether it has been of satisfactory quality. I dont
think this car has been durable. Thats another reason why I think Admiral should now allow
Ms M to reject it.
Putting things right
Im expecting to tell Admiral to collect the car at no cost to Ms M and they should end the
finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Ms M has paid and, as shes been deprived of that
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Admiral have provided some redress for the issues Ms M has had with the car. They
refunded a monthly instalment of £174.07 for the time the car was in the dealership in
December 2020 and they also refunded the charges made for courtesy cars that were 
provided. I think that Admiral have provided sufficient compensation for the lack of use Ms M
has experienced.
Admiral have provided £150 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience
Ms M experienced in the first few months of ownership. Theyve not provided compensation
in respect of the further faults Ms M has experienced with the car. I think its clear she has
been inconvenienced by having to take the car back to the dealership and by having to
escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. So,
Im expecting to tell Admiral to pay an additional £100 to compensate Ms M for the additional
distress and inconvenience had.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Admiral
Financial Services Ltd to:allow Ms M to reject the car and end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Ms M;
refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Ms M a further £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Ms credit file in relation to
this issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M and Admiral accepted my provisional decision, so Ive seen no reason to change it.
Putting things right
My provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Admiral Financial Services 
Ltd to:
allow Ms M to reject the car and end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Ms M;
refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Ms M a further £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Ms credit file in relation to
this issue.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Ombudsman