DRN-3780356
The complaint
Mrs R  represented by Mr R who has Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA)  complains that 
Scottish Widows Limited delayed assigning the LPA to Mrs Rs bond, which meant Mr R 
wasnt able to get the information he needed to make the most tax advantageous decisions 
about surrendering the bond.
What happened
Mrs R has an investment bond with Scottish Widows. In 2021, Mr R submitted the registered 
LPA document to Scottish Widows  however when he called in November 2021, he was 
told an LPA wasnt on file and Scottish Widows couldnt talk to him about the bond. 
Following a complaint, Scottish Widows accepted there was a delay in assigning the LPA to 
the bond and paid him £300 compensation.
Mr R is unhappy that he chose to take a partial surrender without the relevant information 
which may mean it wasnt the most tax advantageous decision for Mrs R. Our Investigator 
didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that we cannot comment on 
compensation that Mr R has been provided in his role as Mrs Rs representative. The 
Investigator also explained that Scottish Widows isnt able to give tax advice, so she didnt 
think that the delay in having the LPA assigned to Mrs Rs bond caused any issues in 
relation to this because it wouldnt have been able to give the answers he was looking for.
Mr R asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision. He said that Scottish Widows ought to 
have been able to give basic information for him to make an informed decision. He explained 
that he still doesnt have information which gives any insight into the tax implications of a full 
or partial surrender of the bond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the Investigator for similar reasons. I 
dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Distress and inconvenience caused by the delays
Its clear that Scottish Widows made an error  it ought to have assigned the LPA to Mrs Rs 
bond as soon as it received it. It didnt do this. Scottish Widows recognised this caused 
inconvenience to Mr R, as Mrs Rs representative, and it offered Mr R £300 to put things 
right. I dont have the power to award compensation for distress and inconvenience to Mr R 
in his role as representative. And Im conscious that the inconvenience here was his, rather 
than Mrs Rs. So, I wont be commenting on that further. I will however comment on whether 
Mrs R has been impacted by this issue.
Information on tax consequences
The crux of the complaint here is that the delays in assigning the LPA to Mrs Rs bond meant 
Mr R wasnt able to get the information he needed about tax consequences prior to making a 
partial withdrawal. Ive thought about this carefully, and I dont think Mrs R would be in any 
different situation had Scottish Widows assigned the LPA to the bond when it should have.
Mr R was looking for information about tax consequences surrounding a partial surrender 
and full surrender. Scottish Widows wouldnt be able to give advice about that  particularly 
the information Mr R was looking for as he was trying to determine what would be the most 
tax advantageous decision. I can see that in the bond statement Scottish Widows sent to 
Mrs R in September 2021 it specifically recommends customers obtain financial advice from 
an Independent Financial Adviser or a Tax Professional when making a decision to take a 
partial or full surrender  this is because it could have tax consequences.
I can see that Scottish Widows sent out information about how much the bond was worth, as 
well as information around how to surrender it. Having looked at everything that Mr R did 
have, I think he had sufficient information to get the advice from a qualified professional 
before deciding to make a partial surrender. So, even if he had been able to talk to Scottish 
Widows about the bond sooner  I dont think it wouldve put him in any more an informed 
decision than he was already in.
Its clear Scottish Widows has made mistakes here, but I dont think Mrs R is in a different 
position because of these, so Im not asking Scottish Widows to do anything to put things 
right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman