DRN-3362117
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt agree to lend him the full amount he 
wanted when he applied to port his mortgage. He therefore had to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) to move to another lender.
What happened
Mr F had a mortgage with Barclays. In 2020 he increased his mortgage borrowing, taking a 
new fixed rate.
In 2021, he applied to port his mortgage to a new property. Barclays considered the 
application, but wouldnt lend the full amount Mr F wanted.
Mr F therefore moved his mortgage to another lender, and paid an ERC to Barclays. He 
complains that this wasnt fair. He says he was led to believe that he would be able to port 
when he took the further borrowing in 2020. He says Barclays changed its criteria and 
moved the goalposts in the meantime. And he doesnt think the ERC was fair.
Barclays said the ERC was clearly set out in Mr Fs mortgage offer. It said that porting was 
never guaranteed, and it said it had considered Mr Fs circumstances at the time and wasnt 
able to offer the further borrowing he wanted  though it would have considered allowing him 
to port the amount of his existing mortgage.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr F asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has increased his mortgage with Barclays over the years, most recently in 2020 when 
he borrowed around £270,000. He says this was to buy a holiday home, and he says that his 
Barclays premier adviser advised him to do so through further borrowing on his main home, 
rather than mortgaging the second home.
Ive looked at the emails between Mr F and the adviser from the time  unfortunately there 
are no call recordings as she used a mobile phone  and they show that in fact it was Mr Fs 
suggestion to use further borrowing on his main home to fund the second home purchase, 
though the adviser agreed it would be sensible as it gave Mr F more flexibility in how he 
used the second home, including making it easier for him to rent out.
Ive not seen any evidence that the adviser guaranteed that Mr F would definitely be able to 
borrow more and port his mortgage in 2021. The further borrowing offer from 2020 says that 
porting is possible, but subject to Barclays lending criteria at the time of any future 
application. 
In 2021, Mr F decided to move house. By then, his mortgage balance (including the further 
borrowing) was around £800,000 and he wanted to borrow a further £400,000 to fund the 
new purchase.
Barclays considered his application. It took into account his salary and bonuses at the time 
of the application, as well as his other commitments. Im satisfied it gave fair consideration to 
his application.
While its true that Barclays had reduced its income multiples  the maximum ratio of loan 
amount to income  in between the two applications, it doesnt seem that even on the old 
criteria it would have been able to accept a further £400,000 of borrowing. Mr F wanted 
Barclays to consider his income history and his history with the bank, but its reasonable  
indeed, its required by the rules of mortgage regulation  that it would only consider his 
income at the time of the application.
Although its criteria had changed and Mr F now qualified for a lower amount than he had 
previously borrowed, Barclays was willing to allow him to port the same amount as his 
existing mortgage balance  but not to increase his borrowing. I think that was fair. A lender 
is never obliged to agree to further borrowing, and Im satisfied that Barclays applied its 
standard lending criteria for this type of application to Mr Fs situation.
That meant that if Mr F wanted to move his mortgage elsewhere to fund his purchase, he 
would have to pay an ERC, since all three parts of his existing mortgage were on fixed rates.
The mortgage offers make clear that theres an ERC if the fixed rate ends early. Thats how 
mortgages and fixed rates work, and I dont think it was unfair that Barclays charged the 
ERC when Mr F ended his mortgage early. I dont think it ever guaranteed that it would 
always be able to continue increasing his borrowing, but it did consider his application fairly. 
When it refused, it was then up to Mr F to decide whether to accept that, or to decide to go 
ahead with another lender in the knowledge hed pay the ERC.
Mr F also says that the ERC was overcharged, because his mortgage includes a 10% 
annual overpayment allowance. So Barclays should have used that to reduce the balance, 
and then charged an ERC on the remainder.
Im afraid I dont agree about that. An ERC is payable when the mortgage is redeemed, on 
the redemption amount. It was open to Mr F to reduce his mortgage before the redemption 
date, to reduce the ERC he would pay on redemption. As he didnt do that, the ERC was 
payable on the full amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman