DRN-2445549
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank PLC declined a debit card payment several times. Mr M also 
complains that TSB earmarked his funds against those failed transactions  meaning he 
couldnt withdraw his money when he needed it.
What happened
Mr M wanted to transfer money abroad, using a bank which Ill call Bank U. 
On 6 November Mr M went on to Bank Us website to make the transfer - the exchange rate 
at that time meant the transfer would have cost £3,012. Mr M tried to pay for the transfer 
using his TSB debit card, but Bank Us website said: Your debit or credit card transaction 
has NOT been successful.
Mr M received a text from TSB asking him to confirm that he wanted to charge £3,012 to his 
card. Mr M replied saying yes. Mr M then received another text from TSB saying: Thanks 
for letting us know you recognise the transaction. You can try again unless you have made 
an alternative payment. You do not need to contact us.
Mr M says he made two more attempts to pay for the transfer using his TSB debit card that 
evening. Both times Bank Us website gave the same message  saying the debit card 
transaction hadnt been successful. 
On 8 November Mr M tried again. This time, due to the exchange rate, the cost of the 
transfer was £3,030. Mr M tried to pay using his TSB debit card, but Bank Us website again 
told him the transaction hadnt been successful. So Mr M tried paying with a different card 
from a third bank - Bank H. That payment went through without a problem. 
Mr M then tried to transfer £3,030 from TSB to Bank H, but his TSB account was showing 
insufficient funds. Mr M called TSB customer services. TSB told Mr M that two payments had 
been earmarked for Bank U - one for £3,012 and another for £3,030. TSB gave Mr M 
information about how to ask Bank U to release the earmarked funds  they said otherwise 
hed have to wait for the money to be returned to him automatically after 7 days.
Mr M complained to our service that he lost out on the exchange rate due to the failed TSB 
debit card transactions  and that he had to borrow money while he waited 7 working days 
for the earmarked funds to be released. 
Our investigator didnt think TSB did anything wrong by stopping Mr Ms first payment so 
they could check it was genuine. She thought that if Mr M wasnt sure if his payment had 
gone through, he should have contacted TSB before making payment again. However, our 
investigator said TSB may have made a mistake by earmarking funds on 8 November if the 
transaction was declined. And if the transaction wasnt declined, Mr M was given wrong 
information. For those reasons the investigator recommended that TSB pay Mr M £100 
compensation. TSB asked for Mr Ms complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 November 2020. My provisional findings were as 
follows:
It isnt disputed that the first attempted debit card payment was stopped by TSB while 
they checked this wasnt someone else trying to use Mr Ms card without his 
knowledge. I agree that TSB did nothing wrong here  this was an important security 
check that was explained in TSBs terms and conditions. And after stopping his first 
transaction, TSB communicated with Mr M by text  telling him he could try again. 
Mr M says he made a total of four attempts to pay for the transfer with his TSB debit 
card. Looking at the information provided by the banks, I can see records of two more 
transactions. TSB records show they authorised the next two transactions  one for 
£3,012 and another for £3,020. I cant explain why TSB and Bank Us records dont tie 
up with what Mr M has told us. But I dont think the number of attempts make a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint - Ill explain why.
From the evidence Ive seen, I think Mr Ms second attempt to pay with his TSB debit 
card was authorised by TSB. When this didnt appear to go through, I think it would be 
reasonable to expect Mr M to check with TSB to see if there was a problem. If Mr M 
had looked at his TSB account or called their customer services, he would have 
discovered £3,012 showing as a pending debit card payment to Bank U. If hed done 
that, I dont think Mr M would have attempted any more payments with his TSB card.
It isnt clear exactly why these payments didnt go through successfully  it may have 
been due to the way the different banks systems communicate with each other. Im 
satisfied theres no record that TSB declined any payments after Mr M confirmed it was 
a genuine transaction. And I havent seen any evidence that TSB gave out wrong 
information. 
When a debit card payment is requested, the card provider authorises the transaction 
and earmarks the money for the payee. This makes sure the right amount of money is 
held in the cardholders account until the payment can be processed. This is standard 
banking practice  without this earmarking process debit and credit card payments 
wouldnt work. So I dont think TSB did anything wrong by earmarking the amount of 
money requested by Bank U. 
After his attempts to use his TSB debit card failed, Mr M needed the earmarked funds 
to be released so he could cover the payment hed had to make from a different 
account. TSB gave Mr M information about how to request release of his funds. They 
said they were unable to release earmarked funds without Bank Us authorisation. 
The evidence TSB provided shows they authorised two of Mr Ms payment requests to 
Bank U, totalling £6,042. So I think TSB acted fairly by continuing to hold that amount 
of money in Mr Ms account for up to 7 working days unless Bank U confirmed they no 
longer required it. 
I recognised how frustrating this situation must have been for Mr M, but I couldnt say that 
TSB had done anything wrong. Accordingly, I didnt intend to uphold his complaint. I 
invited the parties to make any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont find that TSB did anything wrong 
or treated Mr M unfairly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against TSB Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman