DRN-3766300
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the currency exchange rate he received from Revolut Ltd.
What happened
Mr J instructed a currency exchange with Revolut but was unhappy with the exchange rate 
he received and so raised a complaint. Revolut looked at Mr Js complaint but didnt feel 
theyd provided an unfair exchange rate to him as he believed. Mr J wasnt satisfied with 
Revoluts response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Revolut had acted unfairly 
in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This 
means that it isnt within my remit here to declare that Revolut have acted in a non-
regulatory or unlaw way  such declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of 
Law to potentially make. Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service with a 
remit focussed on fairness of outcome, as considered from an impartial perspective.
In this instance, Mr J believes that Revolut have violated their own policies regarding the 
exchange rate they applied to his transaction and contends that other business offered a 
notably better rate of exchange at the time of that transaction.
Revoluts terms explained that Revolut use the real rate, which Revolut defined to Mr J in 
their response to his complaint as follows:
 the real exchange rate means the buy and sell rates we have determined based 
on the foreign exchange market data feeds that we get from a range of different 
independent sources.
Im satisfied that this means that Revolut determine the exchange rate to be applied to a 
transaction by using several different sources. This seems fair to me, and I feel the detailed 
explanation Revolut gave Mr J about the rates they use in their response to his complaint did 
provide a clear and reasonable explanation to why Revolut werent upholding his complaint.
Ive also looked at the rates offered by other currency exchange providers on the day Mr J 
instructed the transaction and having done so Im satisfied that the rate Revolut applied to 
the transaction was commensurate with the rates offered by those other providers and as 
such wasnt unfair.
It also must be acknowledged that Mr J was made aware of the rate that would be applied to 
the transaction prior to him confirming that he wanted that transaction to proceed. As such, if 
Mr J wasnt happy with the exchange rate being offered by Revolut, Im satisfied that he was 
under no compulsion to accept it.
Finally, Mr J believes that Revolut have de-facto applied hidden fees to his transaction by 
applying an unfavourable exchange rate. However, I dont share Mr Js position here, and as 
explained above, Im satisfied that the rate Revolut applied to the transaction wasnt unfair.
All of which means that I dont feel that Revolut have violated their own policies or acted 
unfairly towards Mr J as he contends here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Revolut to take any further action. I trust Mr J will understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman