DRN-2966709
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain about the interest rate on their mortgage, now owned by 
Landmark Mortgages Limited. They say they are trapped with their lender and made to pay 
high interest rates.
 
What happened
Mr R and Mrs R took out a mortgage with Northern Rock. They took a fixed rate which they 
were happy with at the time.
But then the financial crash happened and Northern Rock collapsed. It stopped offering new 
interest rates to its borrowers. Northern Rock was nationalised and Mr R and Mrs Rs 
mortgage was transferred to its successor company NRAM, then on to Landmark in 2016. 
As the current owner of their mortgage Landmark is responsible for this complaint.
Mr R and Mrs R say that they were trapped and unable to move their mortgage elsewhere 
because of their high loan to value and the changed mortgage market. They considered 
themselves to be mortgage prisoners. They paid off their mortgage in 2016, and later 
complained when they saw press coverage about other people in similar situations. They 
said the financial difficulties caused had contributed to the breakdown of their relationship.
Landmark said that Mr R and Mrs Rs mortgage had operated in line with its terms and 
conditions. Neither it nor NRAM offered new rates to any customers, so they had not been 
treated unfairly.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint so Mr and Mrs R asked for it to 
be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have agreed that we can only consider the interest charged to the mortgage 
between 2014 and 2016  anything before 2014 is out of time under our rules, and the 
mortgage was redeemed in 2016.
In 2014 the mortgage was with NRAM and was on a discount rate just below NRAMs 
standard variable rate (SVR).
The mortgage offer for the five year fixed rate Mr R and Mrs R took  in 2007 said that after 
the end of the fixed rate it would revert to the discount rate, and this happened in 2012. 
Nothing in the mortgage offer, or the terms and conditions  or in mortgage regulation  says 
that NRAM had to offer Mr R and Mrs R a new fixed rate once their old one finished.
Because of Northern Rocks collapse and its nationalisation, NRAM was a closed book 
lender unable to offer new interest rates to any of its customers. So all its other customers 
were in the same position as Mr R and Mrs R  and they were not treated any less fairly than 
any other customer. 
After the mortgage moved to Landmark, it continued on the discount rate. Landmark doesnt 
offer new rates to any customers either, and again theres no obligation on it to do so. And 
shortly after the transfer Mr R and Mrs R redeemed the mortgage.
I do understand why Mr R and Mrs R wanted to have paid lower rates than they did. But, as 
Ive said, their lenders werent obliged to offer new rates. Neither lender stood in the way of 
them moving their mortgage to another lender to take a lower rate  after 2012, there was no 
early repayment charge, for example. I understand that was in practice not possible for Mr R 
and Mrs R due to their loan to value  but that wasnt because of anything NRAM or 
Landmark had done. 
And while the NRAM and Landmark SVR (less, in this case, the discount) was higher than 
the introductory rates offered by other lenders, it was comparable to the SVR and reversion 
rates offered by other lenders. So I dont think Mr R and Mrs R were treated unfairly because 
of the level of the reversionary rate they were asked to pay.
I do understand Mr R and Mrs R were in a difficult position and would have preferred their 
payments to be lower. And I sympathise with that. But I cant find that Landmark or its 
predecessors treated them unfairly, and I cant therefore uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman