DRN-2618900
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc wont refund a payment she made.
What happened
In June 2018, Mrs M says she responded to an advert she saw online for child modelling 
with a company Ill call B. She says she applied for both of her sons but only one was 
successful. She says she was asked to pay a £50 deposit to secure a photoshoot for her 
son.
She said that after the photoshoot B encouraged her to sign up to a package with them. 
Mrs M said she selected the cheapest one which was £2,599. She paid £2,549 using her 
Clydesdale credit card, the remaining £50 being taken from the deposit she had already 
paid. She says B told her they would do all the work for her and that her son would be 
offered modelling work from big companies. She says she was told job offers would come 
through immediately.
When Mrs M got home, she says her husband was upset with how much money she had 
spent. They did some research online which she says indicated Mrs M may have been the 
victim of a scam. She contacted Clydesdale to ask it to stop the payment she made, but it 
said this wasnt possible. Clydesdale suggested Mrs M contact B for a refund and if she was 
still unhappy with their response, she could ask Clydesdale to look into things.
Mrs M says B wouldnt agree to a refund, so she contacted Clydesdale again. It said it sent 
Mrs M a dispute form to complete so that it could process a chargeback, but Mrs M didnt 
return the form. It said Mrs M contacted them again at the end of August 2018 and a second 
form was sent out to her.
When Mrs M returned the form, Clydesdale processed the chargeback. B defended the 
chargeback saying it had provided Mrs M with the goods and services she had agreed to 
purchase.
Clydesdale says it told Mrs M that it needed further evidence and information from her to 
continue the chargeback claim. It says Mrs M provided further evidence but by the time this 
was received it was out of time to pursue the chargeback further. It therefore considered her 
claim for a refund under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75) instead.
Clydesdale responded to the S75 claim in August 2019 to say it wasnt upheld. It said this 
was because Mrs M hadnt demonstrated there had been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by B. Clydesdale did however pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the poor 
way it dealt with her claim. This was because Mrs M had to chase it for updates on a number 
of occasions.
I sent Mrs M and Clydesdale my provisional decision on 20 January 2021. I explained why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I said:
The general effect of S75 is that if Mrs M has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against B, she can bring a like claim against the credit provider  in this 
case, Clydesdale. Provided certain conditions are met. For completeness, Im satisfied those 
conditions are satisfied here. Taking into account what S75 says, Ive thought about whether 
Clydesdale acted fairly in declining Mrs Ms claim and complaint.
Mrs M says she was guaranteed modelling work for her son almost immediately if she 
signed up for one of Bs packages. She also says the photographs werent to a good enough 
standard and a canvas print which was part of the contract was never supplied to her. 
Having thought carefully about everything Mrs M has said and provided, Im not persuaded, 
on balance that there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by B. I therefore 
dont think Clydesdale acted unfairly in declining her S75 claim and complaint.
I say this because having listened to Mrs Ms initial call with Clydesdale on the day she 
made the purchase, she indicates she wanted her money back because her husband was 
upset with how much shed paid and that after doing some internet research she thinks it 
may have been a scam.
From the copies of the emails Ive seen Mrs M sent to B, she doesnt appear to raise any 
concerns around being promised modelling work. I can see in one email B explained what 
services it offered as part of the package she paid for, which appears to have been an 
advisory service for aspiring models. Mrs M doesnt appear to have disputed this and instead 
focused her complaint to B about the quality of the photos she received and the non-receipt 
of the canvas print.
I think had she been promised modelling work and this didnt materialise almost immediately 
as she said she was anticipating, I would have expected Mrs M to have raised this with B at 
the time she complained about those other issues. The fact Mrs M didnt do this, makes me 
question how likely it was these representations were made, or if they were, how much they 
influenced her decision to enter into the contract. I also share the same reservations as 
Clydesdale about the lack of detail Mrs M has provided about these job guarantees, such as 
what they would pay, how frequent they were and the logistics of how they would be 
arranged.
The contract paperwork Mrs M signed with B indicates she was paying B for the following:
A disc containing edited image files
An online portfolio with downloadable z-card
At least 10 prints in a faux leather portfolio
A canvas print
In addition to this it offered what appeared to be unlimited modelling support for aspiring 
models, such as providing advice and guidance on which agencies to apply for, how to 
market yourself as a freelance model, what to expect on shoots and negotiating contract 
terms and fees. Within the contract and all the documentation Ive seen from B, it made it 
clear it was not a modelling agency and that it did not source modelling work.
It appears Mrs M received everything listed within the contract. And other than what Mrs M 
has said, there isnt anything to suggest B offered guarantees of work. So Im not persuaded, 
on balance, that there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Im mindful that there have been several instances of modelling scams which have been 
publicised. And in many ways, what Mrs M describes happened to her with B is similar to 
what has been reported in these modelling scams. This service has also seen a number of similar complaints involving potential modelling scams. However, just because similar 
arrangements may be scams, it doesnt automatically follow that B was operating a scam.
There are some key differences in the circumstances of Mrs Ms case to those weve seen 
where the agency is more likely to be operating a scam. Clydesdale has already highlighted 
some of those discrepancies. But in addition to this, Mrs Ms own account of what happened 
during the sales process lacks detail and her actions following the purchase dont support 
what she says she was told. Further, it seems Mrs M has said B was operating a scam, not 
because of her own experience and dealings with B but because of reviews shed read 
online.
While it is of course possible Mrs M was promised modelling work, I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that was more likely to be the case. Mrs M did raise concerns with B about the 
quality of the photos and not receiving all of them or the canvas print. B responded to say 
that some of the photos were intentionally shot to exclude the top of the head as this was 
common in fashion photography. Mrs M hasnt provided me with anything to demonstrate 
this style is inconsistent with what modelling agencies would expect to see. For this reason, 
I cant reasonably say the photos werent fit for purpose.
I can see B provided evidence that they had delivered goods to her and they were signed 
for. While I cant be certain all the items were delivered as the delivery proof doesnt show 
what was sent, it seems more likely than not these were delivered. In any event, it seems B 
resent them to Mrs M several months later. While Mrs M says the canvas print still hasnt 
been received, I cant be reasonably satisfied thats more likely than not to be the case.
For all these reasons, Im not persuaded, on balance, that there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by B. Therefore, I dont think Clydesdale acted unfairly in not refunding 
her payment.
Chargeback
This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and 
merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Clydesdale to ask for a payment Mrs M made 
to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied or as 
described by the company Mrs M paid.
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. The company that Mrs M paid can defend any 
chargeback claim, and that is what happened here. Where a chargeback is defended, 
Clydesdale can pursue it further through the chargeback scheme. However, Clydesdale says 
it didnt do so here because Mrs M didnt provide it with the relevant evidence and 
information in the correct timeframe.
There is no obligation on Clydesdale to submit a chargeback, or indeed pursue it further 
through the chargeback process if the chargeback is defended. However, I would consider it 
good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and there is a 
reasonable prospect of success. The same applies for pursuing the chargeback further if it is 
defended. Further, where the consumer has alleged they are the victim of a scam, I think 
generally it would be good practice to robustly pursue the chargeback.
Clydesdale hasnt provided a particularly detailed account of exactly what happened during 
the chargeback process following Bs defence. By this, I mean that it isnt clear what 
evidence it asked for from Mrs M or that it made it clear to her about the strict time limits 
within which shed need to respond by, in order for them to be able to pursue the chargeback further. It appears that Clydesdale didnt consider it worthwhile in pursuing a chargeback 
further and simply decided to consider the claim under S75 instead.
With this in mind, Ive thought about whether Clydesdale acted fairly in the way it handled 
the chargeback. From what Ive seen, I think it could have been clearer with Mrs M about 
what the process was and what shed need to supply and when. Although Mrs M had said 
she believed she was a victim of a scam, I havent seen that Mrs M did provide anything 
substantially different or persuasive over the course of the next eight months while 
Clydesdale were investigating her claim under S75.
It seems B had robustly defended the chargeback claim and Mrs M hasnt been able to 
provide anything persuasive to suggest she was guaranteed modelling work. On that basis, I 
dont think its more likely than not any further chargeback claim would have succeeded. 
Therefore, I dont think Mrs M has lost out because of anything Clydesdale failed to do as 
part of the chargeback process.
Lastly, Clydesdale has acknowledged it could have dealt with Mrs Ms claim better. In 
acknowledgement of its lack of updates and progress it paid Mrs M £100 compensation. In 
the circumstances I think this was fair and reasonable and I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
Mrs M didnt agree with my provisional decision and Clydesdale didnt respond. In summary, 
Mrs M said:
B verbally promised her son would get modelling work and deliberately didnt include 
this in the written contract. They said her son had the looks they wanted. 
There are reports online and in the media of people being tricked by B in the same 
way she was. 
The advert she applied to said it was a modelling agency. 
If B were just a photography studio who would pay £2,500 for some photos. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion I reached in my provisional decision, and 
for the same reasons. However, Ill address the additional points Mrs M had raised. 
I accept there have been reports in the media and online of modelling scams in general and 
as I set out in my provisional decision, our service has also seen a number of these types of 
complaints where consumers have paid for them using their credit or debit card. However, it 
doesnt automatically follow that every complaint or claim which has similar traits should be 
upheld or was a scam. 
Ive already explained in my provisional decision that the circumstances of Mrs Ms case are 
different to others weve seen which are likely to be scams. In summary, these include, but 
arent limited to: the length of time B has been trading, the level of post-sale contact it had 
with Mrs M following the shoot, the volume of positive reviews online about B, the level of 
detail B provided Mrs M about its aftercare service and the clarity of information about its 
services through its online channels. 
Having considered everything Mrs M has provided, Im not persuaded that she was 
guaranteed modelling work by B (whether verbally or not). This is primarily because the actions she took following her entering into the contract dont support what she says she was 
told. 
She says she was promised modelling work almost immediately following completion of the 
photo shoot. She made written complaints to B about the goods and services she had paid 
for, initially two and a half weeks after the shoot, and also around four to five months later. 
But at no point does it appear she complained that she was promised modelling work which 
didnt materialise. Had this been a key reason for her signing up to the contract I would have 
expected her to have complained to B about not receiving this. Instead, her complaints to B 
have focussed on non-receipt of prints or the quality of the photos. 
I realise Mrs M paid a large amount of money for the goods and services set out in the 
contract. But it appears B has provided everything it agreed to. While Mrs M says £2,500 is a 
lot of money to receive photos, this clearly isnt everything that B provided under the 
contract. While it is of course possible Mrs M was the victim of a scam, from everything Ive 
seen, I dont think Clydesdale acted unfairly when dealing with her claim and complaint 
under both S75 and chargeback.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman