DRN-4092038
The complaint
Mr G complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) and the way they 
handled the claim he made on his UK breakdown insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G held a UK breakdown insurance policy, underwritten by LV. On 25 September 2022, 
Mr G found that he was unable to start his car. So, he contacted LV to make a claim.
LV arranged for an engineer to assist Mr G at the roadside, who attended Mr Gs car the 
same day. But the engineer was unable to re-start Mr Gs car. As Mr Gs car was outside his 
home address, no further action was taken at the time. But Mr G called LV again on 1 
October to arrange for his car to be recovered to a garage so his car could be inspected and 
repaired.
Shortly after, Mr G raised a complaint with LV. He explained that following an inspection, it 
had been discovered that his car had most likely suffered damage to the engine control unit 
(ECU). And Mr G explained to LV his belief that this damage had resulted from their 
engineers decision to try and charge the car battery with a 24v power pack on 25 
September. So, he wanted LV to agree to cover the costs needed to repair his car.
LV acknowledged Mr Gs complaint. But Mr G was unhappy with the length of time it was 
taking LV to issue a response and agree to cover the costs of the repairs to his car. So, after 
hearing nothing from LV, Mr G took the decision to scrap the car. This was completed on 15 
November, with Mr G receiving a scrap value of £384. Mr G then continued to chase a 
response to his complaint, stating his belief that LV should pay him the market value for his 
car.
LV responded to the complaint and upheld it. They accepted there had been delays in 
responding to Mr G. And they also recognised Mr G had incurred part costs for a 
replacement motor. So, LV paid Mr G a total of £653.60 to recognise the upset and 
inconvenience hed been caused as a gesture of good will. But they didnt think they could 
be certain the ECU damage was caused by their engineer. And as the car had been 
scrapped, they were unable to inspect the damage to ascertain this. So, they didnt think 
they should pay Mr G the market value of his car. Mr G remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think they could 
say for certain the ECU fault was caused by the actions of LVs engineer. And they thought it 
was Mr Gs own decision to scrap the car, which had prevented LV from arranging an 
inspection to ascertain the damage and reason for it. So, our investigator didnt think LV 
needed to do anything more than they had already.
Mr G didnt agree, providing extensive comments explaining why. These included, and are 
not limited to, Mr Gs insistence that the engineer had used the wrong voltage charger. Mr G 
expressed his belief that, if our service was unable to be sure that LVs engineer had caused 
the damage, then a fairer resolution would be for a proportion of the cars market value to be 
paid. And Mr G didnt think it was fair for LV to rely on being unable to inspect the car, when 
he felt they had ample time to do so. Our investigators view remained unchanged and so, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr G. I dont doubt Mr G has 
provided an accurate recollection of his version of events. And as he believes LVs engineer 
used a power pack which had a higher voltage than he feels shouldve been used, I can 
understand why Mr G feels LV should be responsible for the financial loss he feels hes 
incurred.
I also recognise LV have paid Mr G £653.60 to recognise the delays Mr G experienced 
during the claim process, the costs he incurred paying for a replacement motor and also to 
factor in the opinion provided by Mr Gs garage as a gesture of good will. So, for me to 
uphold the complaint and decide that LV should do something more, Id need to be satisfied 
with certainty, based on substantive evidence, that the damage caused to Mr Gs car was 
most likely caused by the actions of LVs engineer. Or, that the payment LV have already 
made doesnt adequately compensate Mr G for LVs service failures and the impact these 
caused. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
In a situation such as this one, where I wasnt present at the time the event being 
complained about has occurred, any decision I make must be based on the evidence and 
information available to me and the balance of probabilities.
In this situation, I recognise Mr G feels strongly that LVs engineer used the wrong power 
pack and that this damaged the cars ECU. And I recognise Mr G has provided an invoice 
from the inspecting garage, which expressed their opinion that this is the most likely cause of 
damage.
But I also must take into consideration the fact the document supplied by Mr Gs garage is 
an invoice containing an opinion. I dont think it is an actual engineers report, that states 
definitively the use of the incorrect power pack was without doubt the cause of the damage. 
Nor does it explain what tests the garage conducted to reach this opinion.
I also note the invoice is dated 20 December, which is over two months after the garage 
wouldve inspected the car. And a month after the car was scrapped by Mr G. So, I think the 
opinion provided on the invoice is most likely a recollection of the initial inspection and due to 
the length of time that passed between the inspection and the invoice, I dont think I can say 
for certain that the opinion provided is an entirely accurate record that LV should be 
obligated to rely upon.
I also have to take into consideration the fact LVs engineer initially attended to try and 
restart Mr Gs car on 25 September. And there was then a period of almost a week between 
this failed attendance and Mr G contacting LV again to arrange for his car to be recovered to 
the garage.So, I cant be sure if this delay has contributed to the damage caused to Mr Gs car, as I 
cant be sure exactly what happened to the car during that time. Nor do I think LV can be 
entirely sure either.
So, as Mr G decided to scrap the car before LV were able to arrange a formal inspection to 
take place, I dont think there is enough evidence to say with certainty, or on the balance of 
probabilities, that the damage to Mr Gs car was caused by the actions of LVs engineer. And 
because of this, I dont think LV have acted unfairly when not agreeing to pay Mr G the 
market value of the car when it broke down.
But I do recognise there appears to have been delays, and a lack of communication, 
between Mr G and LV after hed raised a complaint about the damage. I think Mr G made it 
reasonably clear to LV that he felt they should cover the costs of the repairs and that his car 
was with the garage awaiting instruction. I think LV couldve been more proactive regarding 
this and looked to arrange an inspection of the car sooner, as their final response to Mr Gs 
complaint suggests this is what they wouldve wanted to do.
But crucially, I dont think this delay meant Mr G had no option but to scrap the car. I note 
that Mr G scrapped the car around six weeks after he initially raised his concerns with LV. 
And while I do think this is a delay that should be compensated for, I dont think this delay 
was significant to the point that Mr G was left with no other option here. So, I think it was Mr 
Gs own decision to scrap the car and accept the scrap value.
LV have paid Mr G a total amount of £653.60 in resolution to his complaint. This consists of 
£153.60 to cover the cost of the replacement motor which failed to repair the car that was 
scrapped. And then a further £500 to recognise the delays Mr G encountered during the 
claim process and to acknowledge Mr Gs testimony regarding LVs engineer.
And having considered this payment, I think it is a fair one that falls in line, and potentially 
exceeds, what I wouldve directed had it not already been made. I think its a fair attempt by 
LV to address any financial losses Mr G incurred before the car was scrapped. And the 
inconvenience caused by their failure to be more proactive in response to his concerns.
But I think it also factors in the fact LV were unable to inspect the car to understand what 
damage was occurred, and how. And that the invoice Mr G has relied on as evidence from 
the garage is dated some two months after the original inspection, and that there was a 
period of almost a week between the initial attendance of LV, and Mr G then calling LV to 
arrange recovery to the garage itself. So, while I accept Mr G is unlikely to agree, I dont 
think LV need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman