DRN-2749874
The complaint
C is a limited company and its complaint is brought by a representative, Mr L. 
Mr L complains about Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycards decision to terminate their 
banking facilities. Mr L says this caused C severe financial loss and would like £99,000 
compensation.
What happened
C had a merchant services facility through Barclaycard, to enable it to take payment by 
plastic card. 
In August 2020, Mr L noticed that one of Cs card terminals wasnt working. He called the 
third-party merchant services company who C held an agreement with, and they told him to 
contact Barclaycard directly. Mr L says he was on hold for around half an hour, but the card 
terminal then started working again.
The following evening Mr L realised the card terminals had stopped working again. He called 
Barclaycard and the advisor informed him that theyd terminated the relationship with C. Mr L 
complained to Barclaycard. He said he wasnt given any notice or reason why Cs 
agreement had been terminated. Mr L also explained he had to turn customers away from 
his business for the whole weekend as he wasnt able to take any card payments. He 
explained this resulted in around £18,000 loss of earnings for C as well as insomnia, stress 
and anxiety for himself.
Barclaycard responded to Cs complaint and said they sent a notice to close letter in 
June 2020. They also explained they closed the account due to commercial reasons.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service. He said C was already suffering due to the Covid-
 19 pandemic, and this situation made things worse. Mr L confirmed he didnt receive the 
notice to close letter and also thinks Barclaycard terminated the agreement because of his 
name  so he raised an issue of discrimination. Mr L wanted to know why he was allowed to 
take payments after the card terminal stopped working initially, if Barclaycard had already 
decided to end the relationship. Mr L said he wants £99,000 compensation.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that Barclaycard were entitled to 
end the agreement and they did so with relevant notice, and in line with the terms. She also 
said that while she couldnt share the reasons of the account closure with C, she hadnt seen 
any evidence of discrimination. The investigator also explained that Barclaycard dont control 
the terminals ability to take the payments  so Mr L would need to raise any complaint 
relating to the card terminal with their merchant services provider. 
Mr L remained unhappy. He doesnt believe Barclaycard sent C any notice to close and 
thinks they forged the letter once he raised a complaint. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Notice to close
I appreciate Mr Ls main complaint point is that Barclaycard didnt give C appropriate notice 
to end the agreement. Mr L has explained that if he had two months notice, like Barclaycard 
say they gave, he would have had time to arrange alternative merchant services.
When Barclaycard made the decision to end the relationship with C, they sent a letter to the 
registered company address. I appreciate Mr L says he didnt receive this letter and I have 
no reason to disbelieve Mr L. However, Barclaycard have provided a copy of the letter with 
the date, address and content and therefore Im satisfied it was sent. I appreciate Mr L would 
like Barclaycard to prove this  but theyve sent our service a copy of the letter and their 
system notes to confirm it was sent. So Im unsure what other evidence theyd be able to 
provide. The letter wasnt sent by recorded delivery, which of course would be one way to 
prove it. But theres no requirements for banks to send letters by that method. Just like when 
they send opening letters, or new cards and/or PINs, normal post is seen as sufficient. 
Therefore, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to decide that Barclaycard should send a closure 
letter by different means. 
The important factor here is that Im convinced Barclaycard did send the letter with notice to 
end Cs agreement. They sent it to Cs registered address and the letter was sent on 
24 June 2020, confirming Cs agreement with Barclaycard would terminate on 
25 August 2020. And therefore, Im satisfied sufficient notice was given to C to end the 
agreement.
The closure and reasons
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr L, on behalf of C, decided to end the agreement with Barclaycard and use another 
bank  he wouldnt have to explain why. 
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. While Im aware 
Barclaycard hasnt shared the reasons for their decision with Mr L or C, Ive reviewed their 
reasons and Ive seen nothing to suggest Barclaycard have made an unfair decision. 
Mr L has raised an allegation of discrimination. He feels Barclaycard ended the agreement 
because of his name. This is a very serious allegation made by Mr L and one that Ive 
considered carefully. Having reviewed all of the evidence Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
Barclaycards decision was for reasons of a discriminatory nature. And therefore, I cant fairly 
agree with him on this point.
Mis-communication
Mr L has queried why he was able to continue to take card payments after his card terminals 
stopped working the first time. I agree this would have been confusing and inconvenient if 
Barclaycard had already made the decision to end the agreement  which they had. 
Barclaycard have explained that they provide the merchant acquiring facilities to process 
payments, but the third-party merchant services company control the terminals ability to 
take the payments. Im aware Mr L has also complained about the third-party merchant 
services company. Its not in my remit to be able to comment on their actions but I cant fairly 
hold Barclaycard responsible for the actions of another company.
Impact I recognise this has been a really difficult time for C and I appreciate why Mr L has asked for 
compensation. However, to fairly ask Barclaycard to pay compensation, Id need to be 
satisfied that they acted unreasonably. And as Ive explained above, I dont think they have. 
So, while I recognise the potential losses C has suffered, and how difficult this whole 
situation would have been, I cant fairly ask Barclaycard to pay compensation.
Mr L has explained the impact the situation had on him on as an individual too  and I 
appreciate why it would have been extremely distressing for him. But the relationship 
Barclaycard had was with C, not Mr L as a consumer. And the complaint surrounds what 
happened to the business agreement C held. In other words, Mr L represents C, but he 
doesnt have an applicable customer relationship in his own right. He may feel he and his 
company are one and the same, and this is understandable, but under the dispute resolution 
rules (DISP) in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook this is not the case. Simply put, a 
limited company cannot experience personal distress or upset at the hands of Barclaycard. 
So, Mr Ls distress and frustration are not losses experienced by C.
Overall
 
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard closed Cs account in line with their terms and conditions 
and gave sufficient notice by sending C written notice. While I appreciate Mr L says C didnt 
receive this letter, Im satisfied it was sent by Barclaycard so I cant fairly uphold Cs 
complaint on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman