DRN-3390514
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly reduced her 
credit limit.
What happened
Mrs R says she was asked by Barclaycard to provide information about her finances which 
she did. She says Barclaycard then reduced the credit limit on her credit card account from 
£5,800 to £250. Mrs R accepts she doesnt need a credit limit as high as it was but says the 
new limit is too low. She says Barclaycards decision has caused distress and will prevent 
her from using a credit card to make certain purchases. Mrs R believes the decision was 
based on her age and would like a reasonable credit limit.
Barclaycard says it reviewed Mrs Rs account and decided in line with account terms and 
conditions to reduce the credit limit. It says that decision has nothing to do with age.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard was entitled to reduce a credit limit in line with account terms and 
conditions and was obliged to lend responsibly.
Mrs R doesnt accept that view and maintains Barclaycards decision was based on age and 
says the focus should be on the customer not terms and conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs R will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly she feels 
about this complaint.
I have looked carefully at the account terms and conditions which I think Mrs R would have 
agreed to when the credit card account was opened. Whilst I appreciate Mrs R says I 
shouldnt simply focus on those terms and conditions; I disagree and am satisfied they form 
the basis of the commercial relationship between her and Barclaycard.
Those terms and conditions clearly say that Barclaycard will set a credit limit and may review 
that limit. So, I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake or acted unfairly by reviewing Mrs Rs 
account. I can see that it asked for details of Mrs Rs finances before doing so and is obliged 
to lend responsibly. I have not seen any evidence that Barclaycard made the decision to 
reduce the credit limit based on Mrs Rs age and am satisfied that Barclaycard is entitled to 
review and reduce a credit limit. I also think its up to Barclaycard when exercising its 
commercial judgement to decide on such matters.
I accept that Mrs R may have been a customer of Barclaycard for many years, but I dont 
think that is something I can fairly comment on or consider that it has any relevance. I have 
made clear that Barclaycard is obliged to consider the affordability of its customers credit 
limits and is entitled to reduce them in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
I accept that Mrs R is unlikely to accept my decision and also appreciate that I have 
concentrated on the account terms and conditions which she has asked me not to do. I hope 
Mrs R appreciates that we are not Barclaycards regulator and so its not our role to 
comment on its lending criteria and that I consider those terms and conditions as being key 
to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman