DRN-4172164
The complaint
Mr K complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as Chase, blocked transactions he 
was attempting to make.  
What happened
Mr K had an account with Chase which included a round-up feature  his purchases were 
rounded up to the nearest pound and the difference was placed into a savings account.
On 11 December 2022 he was attempting to purchase Christmas postcards via an online 
retailer using his Chase account. Mr K explained that the online retailer required he pay 
individually for each post card.
Chase declined some of Mr Ks transactions and so he contacted it to confirm the 
transactions were genuine. He said he also explained that he would need to do more of 
these transactions in the coming days.
On 14 December 2022 Mr K tried again to purchase postcards for his family and friends. 
However, some of his transactions were blocked by Chase and so he complained.
When raising the complaint, the Chase adviser told Mr K that these smaller purchases were 
abusing the round-up facility available on his Chase card. They advised Mr K that if he 
continued to use the card in this way his account would be closed. Mr K was unhappy with 
the advisers comments and complained about this too. 
Chase didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint about the declined transactions. It said that the terms 
and conditions of the account allow it to screen every payment. However, it upheld Mr Ks 
concerns over the advisers comments, explaining that it hadnt meant to imply Mr K was 
intentionally breaching the terms and conditions. It awarded Mr K £50 compensation for this. 
Mr K accepted Chases response in relation to the advisers comments but brought his 
concerns about the declined transactions to our Service. Mr K said hed forewarned Chase 
and it had confirmed to him the issue wouldnt happen again, so he didnt think its 
declinature of his transactions was reasonable. Mr K told us that he couldnt send the 
majority of his Christmas postcards in time to reach his friends and family. In resolution to his 
complaint Mr K asked for a payment of £1,000. He described the inconvenience of having to 
contact Chase; the time wasted drafting postcards; the embarrassment caused; the sorrow 
of his friends and family who did not receive a card in time; the time wasted making the 
complaint; and the stress caused by the entire issue.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ks concerns but didnt uphold his complaint. They said that 
the checks were random and a security measure to prevent fraud, so they didnt think Chase 
had acted unfairly. 
Mr K disagreed and stressed that Chase had confirmed to him the issue was resolved 
following his initial contact on 11 December 2022. Our Investigator agreed that he was given 
incorrect assurances and asked Chase if it would award any further compensation but 
Chase said the £50 it had already given was sufficient in the circumstances.
The complaint was then passed to me to consider. I issued a provisional decision which 
didnt uphold the complaint. In brief, I said that the block of the transactions were reasonable 
and that I didnt think Chase had given incorrect assurances.
Chase didnt provide any further representations in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr K said he disagreed. He felt there was an expectation that he would interpret the 
ambiguous wording of Chase and that he would understand transaction screening and 
automatic flagging which he considered unreasonable and beyond comprehension.
I am now in a position to issue a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks account state:
well generally make a payment from your account when you ask us to, but we wont make a 
payment if:we reasonably believe you havent authorised the payment or that your account 
isnt secure; we reasonably suspect fraud or criminal activity on your account.
Chase has explained that Mr Ks transactions were automatically flagged for security checks 
due to multiple low-value transactions being made in quick succession. It said this spending 
pattern was not classed as normal for everyday goods and services.
Unusual patterns of spending can be a potential indicator of fraud. And so I think it was 
reasonable that Chase blocked some of the transactions, requiring additional checks. 
Of course, the crux of Mr Ks complaint isnt the initial block on the payments, but the fact 
further payments were blocked after hed alerted Chase to what he was buying and what the 
transactions would look like. But simply because Mr K alerted Chase to how he would be 
using the card, doesnt mean Chase wasnt entitled to carry out further checks as outlined in 
the terms and conditions. It might help Mr K to understand that these systems are automated 
and in place to protect customers. Id like to stress to Mr K that this isnt knowledge I would 
expect him to have. Im explaining this to him within this decision so that he understands why 
Chase took the action it did and why I have reached the decision I have. Ultimately, my role 
is to look at whether Chase has acted fairly in the circumstances.
Mr K also feels he was given assurances by Chase that this wouldnt happen again  so he 
feels he was lied to. When Mr K contacted Chase on 11 December 2022 Chase told Mr K 
that the transaction got declined multiple times. This is because of some security checks 
layered for safeguarding the account of our customers. Rest assured that you will now be 
able to use your card for this transaction and seamlessly for others. 
I can see why, reading this, Mr K thought he would be able to use his card for his future 
similar transactions without incident. But I think this is a case of ambiguous wording rather 
than an error on Chases part. This comment wasnt inaccurate at the time it was made  
Mr K was able to use his card seamlessly for other transactions at that point as the security 
measures had been lifted. But he could only use it seamlessly unless or until the system 
flagged a future transaction as a potential security concern. This is an ongoing possibility for 
any card user at any point and so its also not something I would expect Chase to flag every time it resolves a block. This means I dont think the comment made by the adviser was 
unfair. That being said, I can see how it felt misleading to Mr K and with the benefit of 
hindsight it would have been better if Chase had explained to Mr K that it couldnt prevent 
the system blocking future similar transactions regardless of the advance warning Mr K gave 
it. So, I dont expect Mr K to have interpreted this ambiguous wording, my point here is that I 
dont think what Chase said was unreasonable.  
Whilst I can see why Mr K found this entire experience frustrating, having carefully 
considered things Im not persuaded Chase did anything wrong and for this reason I wont 
be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman