DRN-3358538
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Amtrust Europe Limited declined his claim for a stolen laptop.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr S had his laptop stolen whilst staying at a hotel. He said he had secured the 
laptop in a locked bag and put it under the bed before leaving the room to meet family for a 
wedding afterparty.
When he returned to his room the whole bag had been taken. He reported it to the hotel 
reception and the police. He also reported it through report my loss. Unfortunately, there 
wasnt any CCTV and the hotel said nothing had been found.
Mr S submitted a claim under his gadget insurance policy to Amtrust but they declined the 
claim and cited an exclusion to cover which they felt applied. Mr S brought his complaint to 
this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She felt it wasnt fair for Amtrust to rely 
on the exclusion to decline the claim and asked them to reconsider it. Amtrust didnt agree 
with her assessment and asked for an ombudsman to review it.
In February 2022, I issued a provisional decision, which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending not to 
uphold the complaint.
Insurers are entitled to decide what level of risk theyre willing to take and therefore the level 
of cover they provide. The terms and conditions of the policy set out what is covered and 
what is isnt. 
Amtrust declined the claim as Mr S left the laptop in his room, and in their view placed it in 
the hands of a third party, the hotel, and didnt secure it sufficiently. They also said a theft 
exclusion applied. 
Whilst I understand Amtrusts concern, I think Mr S took some precautions to secure the 
laptop as best he could. He explained the safe wasnt big enough to store it and so he 
locked it in a laptop pull along bag. He also put the bag out of sight under the bed. So, I think 
he did enough in the circumstances to secure it. 
In doing so Mr S may have thought he was covered however, the terms and conditions of 
the policy Mr S purchased set out exclusions to theft claims. It says:
We will not pay any claim where the gadget has been stolen from any premises unless 
force, resulting in damage to the premises, was used to gain entry or exit. A copy of the 
repairers account, or alternatively a signed letter from the accommodation provider detailing 
such damage, must be supplied with any claim
Mr S confirmed there wasnt any damage to the hotel room, so the policy didnt cover the 
circumstances of the theft.
I have considered if the terms were unfair in the circumstances. They are common to most 
policies of this nature, so it isnt unusual. I take Mr S point that as it is a hotel there are 
members of staff who would be able to access the room without any evidence of forced entry 
or damage. However, thats the very risk Amtrust have said theyre not prepared to take and 
one of the reasons for the exclusion. 
As Mr S said himself, staff members could have accessed the room, so he was aware of the 
risk and took that risk when leaving the laptop in the room, especially as he wasnt able to 
secure it in a safe. I dont think its fair to expect Amtrust to bear the risk he consciously took.
I know this will be disappointing news for Mr S but his policy doesnt cover every eventuality 
and I think Amtrust have been fair in applying the exclusion in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S didnt respond and Amtrust had no further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman