DRN-2337219
The complaint
 Mr Ts complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard) relates to the refund of interest 
and charges on his credit card account and the subsequent offer of compensation he 
received from Barclaycard, which he feels is insufficient.
What happened
 Barclaycard contacted Mr T in 2018 to advise that it had charged him too much interest 
during the period 2014 and 2017 because it had applied the incorrect interest rate. This 
resulted in some over limit fees being applied to his account too. Because of that 
Barclaycard credited Mr Ts account with £2,273.62 on 31 December 2018.
Mr T thought that he ought to receive some compensation for this error and as none had 
been included in the sum credited to his account, he made a complaint. Initially Barclaycard 
offered him £100 which he declined stating he thought £1,000 would be fair. Barclaycard 
then provided a final response letter to him and whilst acknowledging it would compensate 
Mr T, reduced its offer to £25, which it thought sufficient. Mr T disagreed as he thought all 
Barclaycard had done was pay him back that which it had overcharged. He thought he 
should be awarded more compensation and so he brought his complaint to this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. 
Our investigator was initially of the view that a further £100 in compensation ought to be paid 
to Mr T, together with 8% interest on the sum paid to him by Barclaycard. Barclaycard didnt 
agree and so our investigator looked at the matter again. 
On review the investigator thought he had made a mistake and that as Mr T hadnt been 
kept out of his money, then it wasnt appropriate for Barclaycard to pay the 8% interest in 
addition to the £100. Mr T didnt agree - his position was that he thought the 8% interest 
should be paid to him, and so he asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The accepted facts of this complaint are that Barclaycard charged too much interest to Mr T 
during the period 2014 and 2017. This means that had Barclaycard charged the correct 
interest rate he would have been charged less in terms of interest. As such he would have 
paid less overall each month and would have retained more money in his own funds. Of 
course, in that situation the balance owed to Barclaycard would have been higher and he 
would have incurred further interest on a higher balance. Ive looked at the credit card 
statements for that period and they show an annual rate of interest on his account of over 
20%.
The main issue here is whether Barclaycard ought to have paid more interest on the sum it 
paid to Mr T. Barclaycard has, during the course of this complaint been a little unclear 
regarding this issue. I therefore asked Barclaycard to clarify their position. I did so because 
after our investigator gave his second view on this complaint, Barclaycard said the £2,273.62 
credited to Mr Ts account did include the 8% interest on the sums he was paid. 
What it said then was this, I can confirm that the remediation took into account both 
compound and the compensatory 8% interest up to the point where we contacted him.
However, Barclaycard responded to my enquiry by saying,
we originally confirmed that 8% wasnt due as he had a revolving balance so Mr T was 
never deprived of the funds. We later confirmed that 8% had already been included 
however, weve subsequently found this to be a miscommunication by the project team  I 
can confirm that where 8% was due, it was included as part of the refund. However, it was 
never due for Mr T for the reasons weve outlined previously.
Barclaycard had previously said that the reason for this is that 8% can only be awarded 
where a customer has been deprived of the potential to earn gains elsewhere.
In my view, I think it is clear that Mr T was kept out of his money each month to the extent 
that he overpaid interest. However, had he retained that sum he would have incurred more 
interest charges at a high rate of interest on his credit card account, and certainly in excess 
of 8% and so in these circumstances I cant say hes been deprived of the opportunity to 
earn gains elsewhere.
Barclaycard has also confirmed that it did not make any report to a credit reference agency 
and so Im satisfied that in this respect Mr T has faced no adverse consequences.
Putting things right
 So, although Mr T will probably be disappointed with my decision, I find myself in agreement 
with our investigator that Barclaycard should not have to pay a further 8% interest on the 
sum they have already paid. However, I agree with Mr T that he has, in round terms, only 
received back that which he was entitled to. As such I think that the award of a further £100 
compensation is fair and reasonably here. 
My final decision
 Barclaycard has already paid Mr T £25 to settle this complaint, but I think it should pay a 
further £100. So, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr T £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman