DRN-3104634
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with charges for damage when he returned his car at the end of a hire 
agreement provided by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services (VWFS).
What happened
In March 2018 Mr W acquired a new car using a hire agreement with VWFS. This was 
originally over a term of two years, but this was later extended to three years.
In March 2021 the car was collected and inspected for damage. Mr W was sent a bill for the 
following:
Bonnet front - scratched £110.40
Bumper front - scratched £110.40
Bumper rear - scratched £110.40
Door LHF - scratched £110.40
Door LHR - scratched £110.40
Door mirror LHF - scratched £27.60
Door RHR - scratched £110.40
Quarter panel LHR - 
scratched £110.40
Tyre LHF - excessively worn £115
Wheel LHF - scuffed rim £36
Wheel  RHR - scuffed rim £36
Wing LHF - scratched £110.40
Total £1097.80
Mr W was unhappy with this and complained to VWFS. 
VWFS issued its final response in April 2021. It said it was part of the terms and conditions 
for Mr Ws agreement that it would charge for damage. It said it assessed this based on the 
fair wear and tear guidelines from the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). 
VWFS explained having looked at things again, it would now charge Mr W for the following:
Bonnet front - scratched £110.40
Bumper rear - scratched £110.40
Door LHF - scratched £110.40
Door LHR - scratched £110.40
Wheel LHF - scuffed rim £36
Door mirror LHF - scratched £27.60
Total £505.20
It also said as a gesture of goodwill, it would reduce Mr Ws bill by another £150, so the 
amount due was now £355.20.
Mr W was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service. He said apart from a 
couple of small scratches the car was immaculate when it was handed back.
An investigator issued an opinion. He didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he explained 
he thought the damage fell outside of the BVRLA guidelines, so VWFS didnt need to do 
anything further.
Mr W remained unhappy. He said the scratches were minute and caused by a car wash. He 
said as he needed to clean the car before it was returned, he shouldnt have to pay for the 
damage. 
Our investigator said this didnt change his opinion. So, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr W complains about charges in relation to a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im happy I can consider 
Mr Ws complaint against VWFS.
Ive firstly thought about whether VWFS could charge Mr W for damage. Looking at the 
agreement signed by Mr W, this says:
You must keep the Vehicle in good repair and condition. You will be responsible for any 
damage to or deterioration of the Vehicle (including repairs) except through wear and tear
Mr W also signed a Driver/Hirer: Key information Responsibilities document. This explains:
If (the car) has sustained any damage beyond BVRLA fair wear and tear standards, 
charges will apply
So, thinking about this, Im satisfied VWFS could charge Mr W for damage to the car. But, I 
only think it would be fair to charge him for damage outside of reasonable wear and tear. So, 
Ive considered what the BVRLA guidance says about this. 
In relation to the scratches, the BVRLA guidance says:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished outIve looked at the photos provided from the inspection, in relation to the bonnet, bumper and 
doors. Im satisfied the damage in all areas is clearly outside of the fair wear and tear 
guidelines. I say this as all photos clearly show scratches of well over 25mm.
In relation to the door mirror, there is some specific guidance that says Missing, cracked or 
damaged door mirror glass and housing units are not acceptable. Given the housing unit 
appears to be painted, Ive also considered the above guidance in relation to scratches.
Looking at the photo of the door mirror surround, there is a clear and obvious scratch of well 
over 25mm. So, Im satisfied this falls outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines.
Ive also considered the wheel Mr W was charged for. In relation to wheels, the BVRLA says:
Scuffs of up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable
Looking at the photo of the wheel, Im satisfied there are scuffs totalling over 50mm. It 
follows Im satisfied this falls outside of the guidelines.
Ive thought about what Mr W says about the damage to the car. Looking at the general 
photos I dont accept the car was immaculate apart from very small scratches. Nor do I 
think the damage present was likely caused by a car wash. But, I should say, even if I did, 
the damage would still be outside of fair wear and tear, whatever the cause.
In conclusion, I find it reasonable that VWFS have charged Mr W for the damage it did. 
Given its already taken £150 off the amount charged, it doesnt need to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman