DRN-1231698
 
The complaint
Miss H has complained that MBNA Limited mis-sold her a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 What happened
 Miss H took out the PPI at the same time as applying for the credit card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss H says the PPI was added to the credit card account without her knowledge or consent. 
Ive seen the application form that Miss H completed. There is a separate section for PPI 
with yes and no boxes that could be ticked to either request or decline the policy. The yes 
box has been ticked on Miss Hs form. Miss H says that it wasnt her that put the tick in the 
yes box. She says she believes it was added by MBNA after she sent the form back.
But if Miss H hadnt wanted the PPI, I find it most likely that she would have ticked the no 
box. In which case, if MBNA did as Miss H alleges, I might have expected to see a crossed 
out tick in the no box alongside a tick in the yes box.
Miss H says she would have ticked the no box had she been provided with any information 
about the policy. So she is suggesting that she left both boxes blank due to a lack of 
information.
Within the PPI section there was a brief explanation of the policy. It explained that the cost 
was 68p of the outstanding balance on the card. It also said that the policy was to protect the 
card repayments in the event of being unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment. I consider that this was enough basic information for Miss H to 
be able to make a decision about whether or not she wanted the policy.
Ive thought very carefully about what Miss H has said but overall, I am not persuaded that 
she didnt know the PPI had been added to her account. On balance I find that it is most 
likely Miss H that ticked the yes box. The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt 
be surprising if Miss Hs memory of events has faded. It seems to me that she probably 
decided to take out the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer 
remembers doing so.MBNA didnt advice Miss H to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide her with enough information for her to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for her.
As Ive said above, I think that Miss H would have known something about the policy -  that it 
protected her credit card repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think shed have decided to have taken it out without 
knowing anything at all about it. Miss H would have had to weigh up in her own mind the 
cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt 
insure against the risk of being unable to work.
As Ive found that Miss H chose to take this policy out, its reasonable to conclude that she 
had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. Miss H would only have 
received statutory sick pay from her employer. And she didnt have any other means, such 
as savings, to fall back on. Miss H says that her parents would have helped out financially. 
But presumably asking family members to cover your bills would be a last resort and having 
the policy would have meant that she wouldnt have to do that. Also, other people cant 
always be relied on as their circumstances can change. Overall, given Miss Hs 
circumstances at the time, I consider that Miss H had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that MBNA didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss H wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused her to change her mind. 
 My final decision
 My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman