DRN-4152940
The complaint
Miss K and Mr R held a house insurance policy with Aviva. Miss K has brought this 
complaint on behalf of both policyholders, and so when I refer to Miss K, I am referring to 
both of them. 
In October 2021 Miss K requested the policy documents be re sent because she couldnt 
open the original ones, but she didnt receive a response from Aviva. 
She then had issues accessing the documents on the portal and she doesnt feel that Aviva 
properly investigated the corrupted documents issue and the system errors, and that they 
didnt appreciate the difficulties she was having. 
Miss K also says that she asked Aviva to send standard unencrypted e mails and they 
ignored that communication preference.
Aviva upheld Miss Ks complaint and initially offered £50 compensation. 
Miss K was unhappy with Avivas response and brought her complaint to us. While we were 
investigating, Aviva increased their compensation offer to £250 and made payment.      
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ks complaint but thought that Avivas offer was 
fair.  
Miss K disagreed with our investigators view, as she thought the compensation should be 
around £1000, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What happened
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reviewed the information provided by Miss K and Aviva.  However, Im not 
upholding this complaint and I will explain why. 
I can see that Aviva have accepted that they have made errors. Specifically, they accept that 
they didnt respond to the request for copy documents to be e mailed, that they were unable 
to resolve the issues with the portal, and they were unable to ascertain why the documents 
that Miss K received were corrupted. 
Its important that a policyholder is able to access all their documentation, and in respect of 
the failure to e mail copy documents, I can see that Aviva have apologised for failing to act 
when Miss K told them that she couldnt access the documents on the portal, and they have 
awarded compensation in the light of this. 
In terms of the corrupted e mails, Ive reviewed the evidence from Aviva which shows that e 
mails have been successfully sent to Miss K. They arent able to say why she cant open 
them as once they are sent; they cant investigate further - and I have no reason to 
disbelieve Miss K that they were corrupted, but I cant say with any certainty that it is Avivas 
fault. It could be related to Miss Ks settings or server.  
Aviva have explained that they are unable to change the encryption on system issued letters 
 which are most policy related letters - but that they have complied with Miss Ks request for 
unencrypted emails outside of this. They have said that unfortunately, they Miss K will have 
to make contact each time she receives a system issued letter and ask for it to be sent 
unencrypted, and they will then make sure this is done. I appreciate that this is inconvenient 
for Miss K, but I cant direct Aviva to do something that they dont have the ability to do, and I 
think that the solution they have offered is fair. 
I can see that this period when Miss K was unable to access her policy documents and was 
having to make contact with Aviva to get it sorted out would have been a difficult and 
frustrating period. However, she wasnt without cover during that period, and I can see that 
Aviva have done their best to try and sort it out. And so, Im satisfied that the offer of £250 is 
fair and reasonable for the inconvenience caused.   
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss K and Mr Rs complaint, and so I wont be 
asking Aviva Insurance Limited trading as Quotemehappy.com to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman