DRN-4284360
The complaint
Mr H complains about Wakams decision to decline his claim under his contents insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr H made a claim to Wakam for three rings which he says were placed on top of a kitchen 
worktop but then couldnt be found. Mr H estimated the cost to be £13,200 for the rings. 
Wakam declined the claim on the basis items lost within the home, and in the circumstances 
described by Mr H, werent covered by the policy. Mr H felt this was unfair, so he 
complained. Mr H explained, when he took out the policy, he contacted the customer service 
team to ensure the cover was adequate. He said nothing was ever mentioned about the 
policy not covering loss of items in the home. Wakam responded and agreed with the 
decision to decline the claim. They explained their customer service team dont offer advice 
about what cover would be right for a customers specific needs, and its for a customer to 
check the policy to ensure it provides the right cover for them. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. She thought Wakam hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. Mr H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Hs home insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says Mr H is covered for loss or damage to his contents which have been 
caused by the risks listed in his policy schedule. The policy schedule then lists the following 
risks: 1. Fire and Resultant Smoke Damage, Explosion, Lightening or Earthquake, 2. Storm, 
Flood or Weight of Snow, 3. Theft or Attempted Theft, 4. Vandalism, Riot, Forced Entry by 
Emergency Services or Civil Disturbance, 5. Household Leaks, 6. Subsidence, Heave or 
Landslip, 7. Impact by Aircraft or Aerial Vehicles, 8. Collision by Animals or Vehicles, 9. 
Damage Caused by Falling Trees, Branches, Lamposts or Telegraph Poles.     
I think its important to note insurance policies, generally, wont cover every eventuality. 
When a customer takes out insurance, the policy documents will set out the obligations of 
each party. 
For the insurer, thats essentially what cover theyll provide. And thats what Wakam have 
done here in listing the risks theyre providing cover for under Mr Hs policy. And I cant see 
the circumstances which led to the loss of Mr Hs items is covered as an insured event under 
his policy. I acknowledge Mr H feels its unfair that items lost in his home which cant be 
found isnt covered by the policy. But this isnt an unusual or uncommon feature in contents 
insurance policies. 
Mr H says he contacted Wakam when he took out the policy, but they never informed him he 
wouldnt be covered for any loss of items in his home. I think its important to make clear, its 
not that Mr Hs policy doesnt cover any loss of contents in the home  because, for 
example, it appears there is cover in the event of loss of items through theft. In this case 
though, given the circumstances described by Mr H when reporting the loss, its those 
circumstances which arent covered as an insured event.  
 
Ive seen the email exchange between Mr H and the customer service team. Mr H explains 
he has recently taken out insurance and wants to ensure hes covered for damage or loss to 
specific items of jewellery. Mr H explains he has declared the value of the items and asks 
whether Wakam require a valuation or proof of purchase. Wakam respond and explain they 
can see Mr H doesnt have out of home cover on his policy and if he would like the items of 
jewellery to be covered when not in the home then hell need to select this add-on. Wakam 
also explain the position in relation to getting valuations. Mr H responds and explains he has 
obtained independent valuations for the jewellery. Mr H explains the value has changed 
significantly and asks how he should update his policy to reflect the new valuation. Wakam 
respond and explain Mr H doesnt need to list any items to be covered within the home. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs comments, but I dont think its unreasonable for Wakam not to have 
mentioned the circumstances where he wouldnt be covered for loss of items in his home. I 
say this because, as mentioned above, Mr Hs policy does provide cover for loss of items in 
his home  but only in relation to the risks listed in his policy schedule. I cant see Mr H 
specifically asked Wakam what would happen if items were lost or misplaced in his home, 
which cant be found. 
I am sorry to hear about the impact on Mr H following the loss of the items but, for the 
reasons mentioned above, I cant fairly ask Wakam to settle the claim given the 
circumstances leading to the loss of the items isnt covered by the policy.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman