DRN-2439880
The complaint
Mr H complains hes incurred extra costs as a result of the time it took for Secure Trust Bank 
Plc to arrange the return of the car he had under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Secure Trust Bank Plc (STB). The agreement was for £20,000 over 60 months; with 59 
monthly payments of £334, and a final payment of £344.
On 23 April 2020, Mr H complained to STB that the car wasnt as described in the advert. He 
told STB he wanted to return the car, and end the agreement. STB accepted the request but 
Mr H was unhappy with the time it took them to collect the car. He said it took them around 
four months to collect the car.
He said he continued to use the car as he needed it to get to work. He insured the car, but 
says the delay in collection meant that he didnt receive a refund of his insurance premium. 
He said his insurer wouldve returned the full premium if hed cancelled within 30 days  but 
he didnt get this because STB took longer than that to collect the car.
STB said the delays in collecting the car were as a result of the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic. They explained theyd normally charge for the use hed had of the car, but theyd 
limited the charge to the £150 hed paid towards the agreement. They didnt think it was fair 
for them to pay more compensation to Mr H.
They confirmed theyd received Mr Hs complaint on 23 April 2020. They said they contacted 
the broker, who investigated the complaint. They said the dealership had been closed until 1 
June 2020. They said the broker agreed to collect the car because itd found the dealer had 
been uncooperative. STB said they agreed to cancel the Hire Purchase Agreement, and 
informed Mr H of this on 10 July 2020.
STB said the broker told them on 26 June 2020 it was arranging for the car to be collected. 
They said they were told the car had been collected from Mr H on 21 July 2020. They said 
hed done 3,964 miles in the time he had the car. They said theyd allowed Mr H to make 
only one payment of £150 while he was in possession of the car.
Our investigator didnt think STB should refund the insurance premium to Mr H. She 
accepted there had been delays, but this was due to the pandemic. She noted that Mr H 
continued to drive the car during this period, and he benefited from the insurance he had in 
place. She said she didnt think it was reasonable to ask STB to pay any more because they 
hadnt required Mr H to pay the monthly instalments for the period  payments she felt theyd 
have been entitled to pursue  and this amounted to more than hed paid for in insurance.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it.
Theres no dispute about whether or not the car shouldve been returned or not. STB
allowed for its return when Mr H told them he wasnt happy with the condition of the car.
Theres no dispute either that the process to return the car was delayed. And its accepted 
that Mr H continued to use the car whilst waiting for it to be collected.
The issue I need to consider is whether or not its fair or reasonable to expect STB to cover 
Mr Hs insurance costs  costs he said were incurred because of the delays.
On 10 April 2020 Mr H paid an annual premium of more than £1,500 to insure the car. When 
the insurance was cancelled on 21 July 2020, his insurer refunded him £500 of the premium. 
Insurance is a necessary cost of car ownership, as well as a legal requirement. Mr H drove 
the car for almost 4,000 miles in the short time he had the car  so he needed to be insured.
Mr H told our investigator he would have replaced the car with another if STB had collected 
the car in April 2020. He would have had to insure that vehicle, and whilst I cant say that he 
wouldve replaced it with an identical vehicle, attracting a similar insurance premium, Im 
satisfied that its more likely than not that he would have incurred similar costs of car 
ownership. So I dont think its fair or reasonable to ask STB to pay these costs to Mr H.
I note that STB have not pursued Mr H for the monthly payments due under the agreement 
for the period he was in possession of the car. I think they wouldve been entitled to do so, 
due to the significant usage he had of the car. I agree with our investigator that Mr H has not 
lost out financially, because STB have not asked him to make the monthly payments totalling 
more than £1,000. In fact, he had three months use of the car for £150.
I note there were delays, but I dont consider Mr H has been unduly inconvenienced. The 
issues he had with the car were cosmetic, and he was able to continue to use it, whilst 
waiting for STB to arrange collection. I may have taken a different view if there were faults 
with the car, but thats not the case here.
I wont be asking STB to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Secure Trust Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman