DRN-1819114
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place 26 years ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything 
they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is.
Mr and Mrs M have said they were never aware PPI had been added to their account. They 
say they werent aware when filling in a pension form a year later; and they would have 
made a claim in 1999, when Mr M was made redundant, if theyd known. They say the ticks 
on the application form could have been added after they signed it. 
I accept its possible the questions on the form about PPI and the acceptance section were 
ticked by someone else after they signed it  although this would have been risky for a bank 
employee to do, as they would have known the PPI would be mentioned in letters then sent 
to Mr and Mrs M. I can see that the document sent to Mr and Mrs M setting out the mortgage 
offer did refer to the PPI and how much it would cost. So, just on the evidence available, I 
think its actually likely Mr and Mrs M did agree to the PPI and then forgot about it. But I cant be sure. However, the problem is that there isnt strong evidence to show that 
Lloyds acted wrongly in the way Mr and Mrs M believe. Where someone has said another 
person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making 
the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to 
make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long 
time ago. 
So, overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mr and Mrs Ms knowledge or consent. 
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Ms particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ms situation at the 
time: 
Its likely Mr M (the person covered) was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr M received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs M would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs M in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs M would have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy at the actual 
point of sale. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this 
would have affected whether Mr and Mrs M took the PPI. I say this because, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman