DRN-3465774
The complaint
Mrs B complains that ReAssure Limited failed to complete the transfer of her pension 
savings to another provider in a timely manner.
What happened
Mrs B originally held pension savings with Legal and General. In September 2020 Mrs Bs 
pension savings, and those of many other customers were transferred to ReAssure with the 
agreement of the High Court. As part of that transfer, ReAssure took responsibility for any 
complaints arising from the actions of Legal and General before the transfer was completed. 
So, although Mrs Bs complaint comprises activities both before and after September 2020 it 
is ReAssure that is responsible for dealing with it. For ease, in this decision I will simply refer 
to ReAssure as the responsible business throughout.
Mrs Bs husband also held pension savings with ReAssure that largely mirrored those held 
by Mrs B. He has also complained about delays he says he faced when requesting a 
transfer of his pension savings. I am dealing with that complaint separately. The information 
that ReAssure has provided on Mr Bs complaint is more detailed in terms of the dates when 
various forms were returned. But given the similarities of their circumstances, and that 
ReAssure has accepted our investigators findings to that effect, I think it reasonable to 
conclude that, where the relevant information is unclear, both transfers progressed along 
similar timescales. And so, given the identical nature of their complaints, I make no apology 
for the similarity of my two decisions.
Mrs B first requested the transfer of her pension savings in March 2020. However, around 
that time, dealing in one of the funds into which her pension savings were invested was 
suspended by the fund manager. ReAssure told Mrs B that it would not be able to transfer 
any of her pension savings to the new provider whist the suspension remained in place. The 
suspension was lifted in October 2020.
Following the end of the suspension Mrs Bs financial advisor requested ReAssure to 
provide the necessary forms for the transfer to commence. Separate forms were issued to 
Mrs B for the transfer of her crystallised and uncrystallised pension funds on 18 November. 
But four days later a duplicate form was issued to the financial advisor  but only in relation 
to Mrs Bs crystalised pension savings. The form that had been sent to the financial advisor 
was completed and returned to ReAssure on 23 November.
It wasnt until 19 January 2021 that ReAssure notified Mrs B that it required her to complete 
the form in relation to her uncrystallised pension savings before the transfer could be 
implemented. The additional form appear to have been returned on at least two occasions in 
February and March. The transfer was completed with the funds being sent to the new 
provider in two tranches during April 2021.
Following her complaint, ReAssure told Mrs B that it didnt think it had been wrong to delay 
the transfer whilst the investment fund was suspended. But, after the suspension had been 
lifted, it didnt think it had completed the transfer as soon as it should. It didnt however tell 
Mrs B when it thought the transfer should have completed. It sent Mrs B a cheque for £200 
in respect of the inconvenience shed been caused and offered to contact the new provider 
to determine whether the late transfer had caused her to lose out.
Mrs B didnt accept ReAssures offer and returned the cheque uncashed. Her complaint has 
been assessed by one of our investigators. The investigator agreed with ReAssure that it 
was reasonable to delay the transfer request until the investment fund suspension had been 
lifted. But he thought that ReAssure had subsequently taken too long to complete the 
transfer. He thought that the transfer should have completed around the same time as his 
findings on Mr Bs complaint - by 25 November 2020, which would have allowed the 
transferred funds to be invested on 30 November.
The investigator asked ReAssure to pay Mrs B £600 for the inconvenience shed been 
caused. And he asked ReAssure to calculate whether the delay had caused any investment 
loss to Mrs B. ReAssure completed that calculation and showed that Mrs B could have 
purchased additional investment units if the transfer had completed at the earlier date.
ReAssure agreed to pay the compensation that the investigator had recommended. And 
Mrs B thought the investigators proposals were fair. But she remained concerned that 
ReAssure wouldnt actually pay the compensation and asked that an ombudsmans decision 
be issued. So the complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, for my consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs B and by ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Both Mrs B and ReAssure have accepted the basis of our investigators findings. But given 
the concerns that Mrs B has expressed, and to provide a clear basis for the compensation 
that I am directing ReAssure to pay, I think I should consider the main aspects of this 
complaint.
It is clear that there was a significant delay in the transfer of Mrs Bs pension savings to the 
new provider. She first asked that the transfer be made in March 2020, and the transfer 
didnt ultimately complete until more than a year later. It seems to me that there were two 
contributing factors to that delay  the suspension of the investment fund, and the 
processing of the transfer by ReAssure following the suspension being lifted. I will consider 
each delay in turn.Approximately 12% of Mrs Bs pension savings were invested in a property fund. Trading in 
that fund was suspended in March 2020, around the same time as the initial transfer request 
was made. ReAssure had no control over that suspension, so I cannot say that it was 
responsible for that part of Mrs Bs pension savings being unable to be transferred.
But it does seem that the remainder of Mrs Bs pension investments were not affected by 
any trading suspension. So I have considered whether it would have been reasonable for 
ReAssure to complete a partial transfer at that time.
My understanding is that ReAssure doesnt normally offer a partial transfer of pension 
savings. Here, had the partial transfer been allowed, ReAssure would have been left holding 
what was effectively an illiquid asset for an indefinite period of time. It would have needed to 
make separate arrangements with Mrs B for the payment of its charges, as they couldnt 
have been raised by the normal methods of selling part of the pension investments.
The terms and conditions applicable to Mrs Bs pension plan do allow ReAssure to delay any 
transfer should there be exceptional market conditions. The terms do not place any time 
limits on any delay that ReAssure might impose. I think what was happening in the financial 
markets around that time  caused by the global coronavirus pandemic  could reasonably 
be described as exceptional.
So on balance I cannot reasonably conclude that ReAssure acted unfairly in not allowing the 
transfer of Mrs Bs pension savings to the new provider whilst trading in part of her 
investments was suspended.
The investment fund suspension was lifted in October 2020. Shortly afterwards Mrs B 
submitted a new transfer request. I dont think that request was dealt with as quickly as it 
should have been. And I think that has led to a loss for Mrs B, together with her experiencing 
a degree of inconvenience.
When ReAssure first responded to Mrs Bs transfer request it sent her some paperwork to be 
completed. But it seems it only sent a subset of that paperwork to Mrs Bs financial advisor. 
I dont think it unreasonable that Mrs B was guided by her financial advisor when completing 
that paperwork. And as a result her submission was based on the incomplete set of forms 
that ReAssure had sent.
I think it likely that Mrs B returned the authorisation paperwork on 23 November. But it wasnt 
until almost two months later, after significant chasing from Mrs B, her financial advisor, and 
the new provider, that ReAssure made her aware that some further paperwork was required. 
Mrs B appears to have returned that additional paperwork in early February, and sent a 
further copy in March, but it wasnt until April 2021, that her pension savings were 
transferred to the new provider.
ReAssure has said that its service standard is for any particular request to be completed 
within ten working days. Mrs B first requested the transfer on 23 October, so Id have 
expected the required paperwork to have been issued to her by 6 November. I have no 
reason to think that Mrs B wouldnt have returned all the required forms to ReAssure if they 
had been sent at the outset within the same timeframes as the subset of paperwork that she 
returned. That was sent back to ReAssure within three working days of receipt so, if nothing 
had gone wrong, Id have expected ReAssure to be in a position to finalise Mrs Bs transfer 
by 11 November. And allowing for the normal ten-day processing time the transfer should 
have completed by 25 November, with the funds available for investment with the new 
provider by 30 November. That is the date that I will ask ReAssure to use when calculating 
whether Mrs B has lost out.There is little doubt that the delay to the transfer, following the lifting of the suspension on 
the investment fund, caused a great deal of inconvenience to Mrs B. As I said earlier 
ReAssure offered her £200 for that inconvenience, although Mrs B returned the cheque 
uncashed. I dont think ReAssures offer was enough. So I am directing ReAssure to pay 
Mrs B £600 to reflect the inconvenience shes been caused.
In summary, I dont think it was unreasonable for ReAssure to delay Mrs Bs transfer request 
whilst trading in one of her investments was suspended. But I think that Mrs B should have 
been in a position to invest her transferred pension savings by 30 November 2020. I think 
the delays she experienced were as a result of failings by ReAssure to complete the transfer 
in a timely manner. So ReAssure now needs to establish whether the delay caused Mrs B to 
lose out, and if so to pay her appropriate compensation.
Putting things right
For the reasons I have explained above I think that Mrs Bs transferred pension savings 
should have been ready for investment by 30 November 2020. I think it likely that Mrs B 
would have made the same investments with those funds as she made the following year. 
So to calculate whether Mrs B has lost out as a result of the delay ReAssure should;
Determine what the transfer value would have been for Mrs Bs pension savings on 
30 November 2020.
Establish the number of units of HSBC World Selection - Balanced Portfolio 
Accumulation P that could have been purchased at that date using the transferred 
funds.
Compare that number of units with those actually purchased by Mrs B following the 
completion of her transfer in April 2021.
If the number of units that could have been purchased in November 2020 is greater 
that the number purchased in April 2021, Mrs B has lost out and should be paid 
some compensation.
That compensation should be calculated as the value, at the date of this final 
decision, of the additional units that Mrs B could have purchased.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mrs B in a clear and simple format.
The compensation should be paid into Mrs B's pension plan. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If ReAssure is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs B's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mrs B is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
However, if Mrs B would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
ReAssure should additionally pay Mrs B £600 (inclusive of the £200 it has already offered 
her) for the inconvenience she has been caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mrs Bs complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman