DRN-2941152
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt do more to help him when 
he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr A has an account with Barclays. In May 2020, he decided to invest his money using 
the services of an individual who had approached him on a social media platform. I 
understand they had contacted Mr A in the past, but he had opted to not respond. 
However, on this occasion he was persuaded that it would be worth investing his money.
Unfortunately, the individual that had contacted Mr A wasnt a legitimate investment 
manager but a fraudster. Mr A made several transfers to this individual on the 
understanding that he was making a short-term but high-yielding investment speculating on 
movements in foreign exchange. Some of those transfers (but not all) were made from his 
Barclays account. In total, he transferred just under £3,000 from his Barclays account.
Once he realised that hed been the victim of a scam, he contacted Barclays to let it know. 
It investigated his concerns but said it wouldnt pay him a refund. In its response, it said:
Before proceeding with any payments, customers must take steps to satisfy 
themselves that the person or business they are paying is legitimate and who 
they think it is.
[]
Unfortunately, our investigation indicates that you did not take these steps. When 
making the payment, we made you aware about the risk of scams and gave you 
relevant warning messages. You confirmed that you were happy to continue with 
the payment and by choosing to proceed, it unfortunately resulted in the scam 
taking place.
Mr A was unhappy with this response and so he referred a complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator considered whether it 
was fair and reasonable for Barclays to have declined Mr As claim under a specific 
voluntary code of practice  the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code.
This code sets out the circumstances under which a firm should pay a refund to a 
customer and where it can choose to not do so. The Investigator noted that a firm could 
opt to not pay a refund if (amongst other reasons) it was satisfied that its customer made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the person they were paying was 
legitimate.
The Investigator concluded that there were several factors that ought to have made Mr A 
realise that it was unlikely he was dealing with a legitimate investment manager. Mr A 
was unhappy with the investigators conclusion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres 
no dispute here that Mr A authorised these payments.
However, under the CRM code, a firm is expected to reimburse a customer who is the 
victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam, like Mr A. There are a limited set of 
circumstances set out in the code in which a firm can choose not to reimburse its customer. 
One such circumstance (and the most relevant in this case) is where it can be 
demonstrated that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for 
believing that:
The payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
The payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
The person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Barclays says it wont refund Mr As losses because it doesnt think he had a 
reasonable basis of belief and I agree with that conclusion. I say that because:
He was promised an unrealistically generous return on his investment  he was 
told that he should expect to double his investment within 24 hours and that such 
a generous return could be achieved without any risk to his investment or paying 
a fee for the services of the investment manager. I think Mr A ought to have 
treated this promise with more scepticism.
Mr A was asked to make payments to private individuals that, on the face of it, 
were not connected with the company that was supposedly managing his 
investment. None of the payments he made were to a company bank account or 
to any individual connected with that company. I think this wouldve been 
reasonable grounds for suspicion, but as far as I can see, Mr A didnt question 
this with the scammer.
There were no formalities in terms of the agreement hed reached with the 
scammer
 he hadnt seen or agreed to a contract or received any literature explaining 
the terms on which the investment was being offered.
When Mr A was told that hed need to pay fees in order to access the return on 
his investment, this came as a surprise to him. From what hes said, there had 
been no conversation with the scammer about the likelihood of his investment 
attracting future fees. When the scammer asked Mr A to pay surprise fees, I think he ought to have been concerned about the obvious informality of the 
arrangement.
Ive looked at screenshots of the communications Mr A had with the scammer. 
The tone of these messages is unusually blunt and confrontational. I think most 
customers would be shocked to receive any of these communications from a 
legitimate business and so I think Mr A ought to have recognised this as a 
warning sign.
Mr A says he did carry out checks on the investment provider  they told him they 
were a duly registered company in the UK and that he could check their 
registration at Companies House. When he did this, he found a company that 
was actively trading but that appeared to operate in an entirely unconnected field. 
I wouldnt have expected to Mr A to carry out checks on the investment provider 
with forensic detail  but I dont think there was much to the data on the 
Companies House website that shouldve reassured him, particularly in the light 
of the clear warning signs Ive described above.
Mr A continued to use his Barclays account to make payments, even after hed 
told another bank that he suspected hed been scammed. He told us that he 
thought he needed to make those payments to get his money back and that he 
was incredibly anxious about the situation hed found himself in. However, I dont 
think I can say that he had a reasonable basis for believing that the person he 
was paying was genuine when hed recently told a separate financial business 
that he was worried they might not be.
Should Barclays have done anything else to prevent the scam?
Good industry practice requires that regulated firms such as Barclays engage in monitoring 
of customer accounts and to be on the lookout for suspicious or out of character 
transactions with an aim of preventing fraud and protecting customers from financial harm. 
And under the CRM Code, where it identified a risk of a customer falling victim to an APP 
scam, it was required to provide that customer with an effective warning.
We now know with the benefit of hindsight, that Mr A was falling victim to a scam. But 
based on the information that was available to it at the time, I dont think Barclays wouldve 
had any reasonable basis for coming to that conclusion. The payments wouldnt have 
appeared out of character or unusual and they werent so large that they ought to have 
attracted closer scrutiny on the part of Barclays. For those reasons, I dont think the CRM 
Code required that Barclays display a fraud warning as part of the payment process and 
Im not persuaded it wouldve had any grounds for intervening to question the payment with 
Mr A before allowing it to be processed.
Finally, Im satisfied Barclays did what it could to recover Mr As money once he notified it 
that hed fallen victim to a scam. Unfortunately, by that time, Mr As money had been 
moved on from the receiving account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.James Kimmitt 
Ombudsman