DRN-4111712
The complaint
Mr R has complained about his car insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
because it added a claim to his policy for damage to a hire car hed been driving whilst his 
insured vehicle was being repaired under a lease agreement (not by/with RSA).
What happened
Mr Rs car is, effectively, leased to him. In November 2022 the car was at the dealership to 
have some investigations and/or work done. The agreement under which the car is provided 
to Mr R entitled him to a hire car for the period his car was at the garage. His insurance 
policy with RSA extended to covering a hire car made available to Mr R in such a 
circumstance. The garage took delivery of the hire car on 5 November 2022, signing 
paperwork agreeing there was no damage to the hire car.
On or around 15 November 2022 Mr R returned the hire car to the dealership and collected 
his car. The hire company came to collect the car the next day. Damage was noted to the 
car. In January 2023 RSA was notified of a claim on Mr Rs policy from the hire company for 
the damage. RSA asked for evidence and the hire company produced paperwork and 
photos from the 5 November, showing no damage to the car with agreement in that respect, 
and paperwork from 16 November 2022, noting damage found upon collection. RSA was 
satisfied that sufficiently evidenced damage had occurred to the car whilst in Mr Rs care, 
during the period the hire car was covered by its/his policy. It told Mr R it was recording a 
claim against his policy which it intended to accept and settle. Mr R was unhappy, and when 
RSA wouldnt change its view, he complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator noted the evidence RSA had gathered from the hire company regarding the 
cars condition when Mr R took responsibility for it and that when the hire company collected 
the car. He felt RSA had acted fairly and reasonably in logging, accepting and paying a claim 
against the policy for the damage reported, including the timescale in which it notified Mr R. 
Mr R said there was no evidence of when the car was damaged, and he certainly hadnt 
damaged it. He felt it might have occurred after he left the car at the garage and he didnt 
think he was reasonably responsible for the car at that time. Our Investigator explained that 
Mr Rs comments hadnt changed his view on the complaint and the complaint was passed 
for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that it is frustrating for Mr R to have a claim logged on his record. But Im not 
persuaded RSA has done anything wrong. 
RSAs policy covers alternative vehicles supplied for Mr Rs use under the lease agreement 
for his car. So, reasonably, if RSA is advised of damage to an alternative vehicle by either 
Mr R or the vehicles owner, it must respond to such a claim. Here RSA did that by gathering 
evidence from the hire company to satisfy itself that the car was not damaged before it was 
hired to Mr R, but that it was damaged when the hire company took it back into its care. 
I dont doubt that Mr R took care of the car, but that doesnt mean it wasnt possible for 
damage to be caused to it. And there is evidence of that having happened.
There are scuffs and scrapes to the paintwork on both the front and rear bumper, but also on 
the left rear wing. Around £700 was claimed by the hire company for repair. I can see why, 
given the photo evidence and the quite limited repair cost, RSA was minded to accept and 
settle the claim. 
I understand that Mr R thinks that once he left the car at the dealership it was no longer in 
his care, and/or that the hire company should have collected it sooner. But until the hire 
company collected the car, it was in Mr Rs care, so it was covered by the RSA policy. 
Further RSA is not responsible for the acts of the hire company  so if the hire company did 
delay collecting the car, allowing it to be damaged in the interim, that failure wouldnt give me 
reasonable cause to say RSA shouldnt have dealt with a claim on the policy for damage.
I accept that there was quite a long gap between Mr R leaving the car at the dealership and 
RSA notifying him of the claim against his policy (November to February). However, I can 
see that RSA was only notified itself of the claim at the end of January 2023, with it 
contacting Mr R on 11 February, within two weeks. I dont think RSA caused any delay here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman