DRN-3339911
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt provide him with the service it 
should have when he experienced difficulties maintaining the repayments on his loan. 
What happened
Mr S took out a loan with NatWest. He says he has experienced financial and health issues 
since having the loan and doesnt feel that adequate checks were carried out in 2017 when 
he first explained his issues. He says he has only been able to maintain payments because 
of help from a family member which isnt available going forward and so he cannot afford the 
debt. He says he would have accepted the loan being defaulted as he feels this would have 
assisted him in dealing with his situation.
Mr S contacted NatWest in 2017 saying his circumstances had changed and the household 
income had reduced meaning he wasnt able to maintain his repayments. An income and 
expenditure assessment took place showing a negative disposable income and a financial 
assistance plan was agreed for four months following which a further plan was agreed for 
two months. Mr S raised a complaint in July 2018 which NatWest says was about the 
interest rate being applied. The complaint was resolved on the telephone and a letter was 
issued at that time giving Mr S his referral rights.
In 2021, Mr S raised a complaint about the deferral arranged in November 2020, receiving a 
letter about a direct debit being set up which wasnt correct and that he wasnt advised in 
2017 about the impact of reducing his payments at that time. NatWest issued a final 
response letter in July 2021 saying that the deferral was in place from November 2020 to 
February 2021 and then March to May 2021. It said a deferral was usually only in place for 
six months but had been in place for seven months and it confirmed that it would remove the 
adverse data from Mr S credit file so that no adverse information was recorded from 
November 2020 to the date of the letter and said the loan could be extended to cover all 
seven months of arrears and that £5.78 of arrears interest would be prevented. NatWest 
confirmed the direct debit letter was sent in error and that Mr S had a different method of 
payment set up. Because of the service issues it offered to pay Mr S £100 compensation.
Regarding the actions taken in 2017, NatWest said that Mr S had been exempt from paying 
charges but not interest and so his normal contractual interest had been applied. It 
confirmed the interest rate hadnt changed and noted that as his payments had been 
reduced it would now take longer to clear the loan. It said that Mr S was provided with this 
information when the plans were put in place and said that his complaint about this issue 
had been dealt with in July 2018.
Our investigator noted that part of Mr S complaint had been dealt with in 2018 and so didnt 
consider this further. She thought that NatWest had carried out adequate checks when Mr S 
had contacted it about his circumstances. However she thought given the information that 
Mr S had provided to NatWest through the various contact points that NatWest should have 
realised that Mr S was unable to meet his payment obligations and that the loan should have 
been defaulted six months after he first raised his concerns, so around March 2018, and that 
any interest or charges should be refunded to Mr S from that date. She also thought that had 
NatWest taken this action at that time, it would have prevented the ongoing upset that Mr S 
had been caused and so she recommended that NatWest pay Mr S £100 compensation for 
the distress and upset caused.
NatWest initially accepted our investigators view. It paid Mr S the £100 compensation. It 
then raised concerns about the issue of a default and interest refund. NatWest confirmed 
that Mr S account hadnt been defaulted but that payments had been missed and said that 
no interest needed to be refunded. It said interest had only been charged on Mr S 
contractual payments and not on any arrears. It said the account hadnt been defaulted as 
when Mr S explained his change in circumstances in September 2017 it thought it better for 
Mr S to have an assistance plan set up. It said Mr S then contacted it in July 2018 about 
clearing his arrears and a repayment plan was set up. The arrears were cleared in 12 
months and Mr S account was moved out of recoveries and it was being operated 
satisfactorily. It said Mr S was in regular contact through this period and that applying a 
default during this time would have been worse for Mr S.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Several issues were raised through this complaint investigation. I thought the issue of 
the direct debit letter was adequately addressed in the July 2021 final response letter 
and Mr S confirmed the issue about the deferral was no longer outstanding. 
Therefore, I considered the outstanding issue being whether adequate actions were 
taken following Mr S contacting NatWest in September 2017 about his payment 
issues and his subsequent contact explaining his mental health issues and resulting 
vulnerability.
Mr S raised a complaint in 2018. A final response letter was issued in July 2018. The 
complaint was about the interest being reapplied to Mr S account after the financial 
assistance plan had come to an end and about the rate of interest. Mr S didnt refer 
this complaint to this service within six months of the final response and while I 
appreciated he was in an extremely difficult situation at the time as he was able to 
continue to make contact about his account I didnt think I could say that exceptional 
circumstances existed that meant he want able to refer his complaint within the 
required timeframe. Therefore, I didnt consider this part of Mr S complaint any 
further.
Mr S said adequate checks werent undertaken when he contacted NatWest about 
his situation in September 2017. At that time an income and expenditure assessment 
took place and Mr S said he would be able to improve his situation in the new year by 
reducing costs and with assistance from a family member. There was regular contact 
between Mr S and NatWest and I thought the checks carried out were reasonable.
The outstanding issue was whether the action taken by NatWest was adequate given 
the information it had been provided with. In this case there was some confusion 
about whether a default had been applied to Mr S account but NatWest confirmed 
this hadnt happened. 
In assessing what a fair course of action to take was in 2017, I considered how the 
relationship was being maintained between NatWest and Mr S and what NatWest 
should reasonably have known about Mr S ability to make payments going forward. 
Based on the information provided, it appeared that a relationship was maintained, and that NatWest provided Mr S with assistance when issues were raised. 
When Mr S contacted NatWest in September 2017 I thought it acted reasonably by 
gathering his income and expenditure information. This showed a significant negative 
disposable income and while I note Mr S comments about how this would be 
addressed, I thought these comments should have raised concerns. That said, I 
didnt think it would have been fair to default Mr S at that time and I thought putting in 
place a financial assistance plan was reasonable.
Given Mr S was only making token payments I thought it reasonable this was kept 
under review. The contact notes showed that Mr S maintained contact while the plan 
was in place and that he had said he might have improved circumstances after April 
2018. The assessments undertaken between the start of the plan and May 2018 all 
showed a negative disposable income which should have raised concerns. However, 
in June 2018, a further assessment took place when Mr S had a positive disposable 
income recorded due to an increase in income. Additional payments and the 
implication of a default if payments werent maintained was discussed. Mr S agreed 
to the terms and said he was hoping to make some lump sum payments. At this time, 
I think NatWest should have been concerned as to whether the disposable income 
would remain at the amount stated. But, I do not think it unreasonable that time was 
allowed to assess whether Mr S was able to make his payments and reduce his 
arrears before a default was applied.
Mr S made his contractual payments from July 2018 and made payments towards his 
arrears over the following 12 months. I understand this cleared his arrears and his 
account was taken out of recoveries. Mr S continued to make his contractual 
payments until October 2020. His payments in this period did not raise concerns. 
A deferral was then put in place. This was in place for seven months. While I think by 
this time, May 2021, it would be reasonable to have considered whether a default 
was a reasonable course of action, Mr S had raised his complaint in June 2021 and 
his loan had been in the investigation process since that time.
On balance, I did not find I could say NatWest acted unreasonably by taking the 
actions it did regarding Mr S account. It tried to assist Mr S by allowing payment 
plans and while I noted Mr S' comments about accepting a default I can see that he 
has previously raised concerns about information on his credit file which suggested 
he wouldnt have wanted a default at the time. As the relationship was ongoing and 
the information provided suggested Mr S would be able to return to his contractual 
payments  which he did for a significant period of time  I did not think NatWest was 
wrong not to apply a default in 2018 or prior to this.
Mr S didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said he didnt think adequate checks were 
carried out when the loan was provided not when he raised the issue of financial difficulty. 
He said he wanted to reduce his payments, but this resulted in additional interest over the 
longer term and that his credit file had been destroyed and so a default might as well have 
been added. He said that NatWest didnt offer him the support it should have and that had 
he not been offered the extra loan he wouldnt be in the position he is today.
Mr S said that the extra payments towards the loan were made by a family member as he 
was in a very bad place with severe mental health issues. He said that adequate checks 
would have shown he didnt have the money to afford the loan. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry that Mr S has experienced such a difficult time over the past few years, and I 
appreciate his openness about the issues he has experienced.
Mr S said in response to my provisional decision that he didnt think the loan should ever 
have been provided to him and referenced checks being carried out in 2015 but the loan 
being issued in 2017 without adequate checks. The loan agreement shows the loan 
commenced in January 2017 and so we would expect adequate checks to have taken place 
at that time. I have looked through the complaint that has been raised and investigated by 
NatWest and then referred to the Financial Ombudsman service for investigation. This was 
about the treatment he received when he contacted NatWest about his payment issues 
(along with other points) and the checks carried out at that time. Therefore, while I note Mr S 
comment about the initial checks not being adequate this isnt the complaint that has been 
investigated. I understand that Mr S has now raised a new complaint about the initial lending 
decision.
This decision relates to how Mr S was treated when he contacted NatWest about the issues 
he was experiencing with his repayments. I have looked again at the contact notes from 
September 2017 and can see that Mr S says his household income has reduced but that this 
may change in the new year. An income and expenditure assessment was carried out and 
this gave a negative disposable income. Given this, I think the decision to put Mr S on a 
financial assistance plan was reasonable. I can see that contact was maintained between 
Mr S and NatWest and Mr S provided information about how he might be in an improved 
situation going forward. Therefore, as I set out in my provisional decision, I think that the 
actions taken at this time to support Mr S were reasonable.
A further income and expenditure assessment took place in June 2018 which showed a 
positive income. Mr S then started to make his contractual payments and also over the 
following months reduced his arrears. I note Mr S comments about the additional payments 
made being made by a family member. However, having looked through the contact notes 
these say that he will be trying to make additional payments and mention isnt made of the 
funds coming from elsewhere. Therefore, I do not find that NatWest should have been 
concerned about these payments. The arrears were cleared, and I can see that Mr S was 
trying to see if the loan could be added to the mortgage. This is a separate issue and this 
decision relates to how Mr S was treated in regard to his loan and whether NatWest should 
have done more to assist him.
In this case, as set out my provisional decision, I think that NatWest provided assistance to 
Mr S when requested and that the assistance provided was reasonable. I do not find that a 
default should have been applied previously and because of this I do not require interest to 
be refunded. I note the compensation has been paid and other actions taken in the course of 
this investigation. Therefore, based on what I have seen I do not require NatWest to take 
any further action regarding the complaint raised in July 2021. Going forward, as Mr S has 
explained his situation and given the ongoing nature of this I think further consideration 
should be given to how best to work with Mr S regarding the repayment of his loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman