DRN-3757979
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold a level term assurance policy to 
protect a business loan taken out in 2004.
What happened
In May 2004 Lloyds agreed a business loan for Mr C and Mrs C of £33,945. At the meeting 
to sign the loan agreement Mr C and Mrs C met with a financial adviser from Lloyds. Lloyds 
recommended a new level term assurance policy for £50,000 life cover with a term of 20 
years. This policy started in August 2004. Mr C and Mr C continued to pay the premiums on 
the new level term assurance policy until 2009.
Mr C and Mrs C complained to Lloyds that it had told them the level term assurance policy 
had to be taken out as a requirement of the business loan, and that the term didnt match the 
term of the business loan. Lloyds said there was nothing to suggest the level term assurance 
policy was taken to protect the business loan, but it said the policy should have been a 
decreasing term policy and refunded the difference in premiums for the time the policy was 
in place plus interest.
After Mr C and Mrs C raised a further complaint about another product Lloyds sold to them, 
Lloyds reviewed its final response on the complaint about the level term assurance policy. In 
a response dated 9 April 2021, Lloyds said that it was satisfied the policy wasnt intended to 
protect the business loan. Instead, Lloyds said it protected the further advance on a 
mortgage that was arranged on an interest only basis and for a different amount and term. 
And, Lloyds confirmed that although the further advance completed on June 2004 the policy 
didnt start until August 2004. Lloyds then recalculated the amount Mr C and Mrs C would be 
due based on the amount of the further advance over 17 years. As the refund due was lower 
than the amount Lloyds had already paid Mr C and Mrs C, no further payment was made. 
Mr C and Mrs C didnt agree with Lloyds and brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where one of our Investigators looked into things. The Investigator 
didnt think Lloyds had sold the policy to protect the business loan and that although the 
wrong type of policy had been sold, the payment Lloyds had already paid Mr C and Mrs C 
was a fair and reasonable one. Mr C and Mrs C asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C and Mrs C will be disappointed, but Ive decided there isnt enough 
evidence to persuade me the level term assurance was sold to protect the business loan or 
that Lloyds told Mr C and Mrs C it was a condition of the loan. However, I consider the 
remedy Lloyds has already paid Mr C and Mrs C is a fair and reasonable one. I will now 
explain why.
Business loan 
The terms of the business loan differ significantly from the terms of the level term assurance 
policy recommended by Lloyds. The amount of cover and the term dont match at all. The 
fact-find, which was completed on the day Mr C and Mrs C signed the business loan 
documents, records they were planning a further advance on their mortgage of £50,000 over 
20 years. The business loan documents make no reference to any condition that a life policy 
must be in place to secure the loan.
The suitability letter, signed by Mr C and Mrs C confirmed theyd agreed a separate need to 
protect their mortgage, specifically the additional £50,000 over 20 years they intended 
borrowing. I appreciate that Mr C and Mrs C say they werent expecting a meeting with a 
financial adviser at the time they signed the loan agreements, but it seems more likely a 
discussion took place around protecting their intended personal borrowing.
Mr C and Mrs C say they were told at the meeting in May 2004 that they had to take out the 
level term assurance policy to secure the business loan. However, because the meeting took 
place 18 years ago, Ive decided to give more weight to the evidence contained within the 
fact-find and the suitability letter. These documents were completed at the time of the sale 
and taking into account what they recorded, and that the policy terms show more correlation 
to the further advance terms than the business loan terms, Im persuaded its unlikely Lloyds 
told Mr C and Mrs C this policy must be taken out to secure the business loan.
Unsuitable policy
It seems more likely to me that the level term assurance policy was intended to protect the 
further advance referred to in the fact-find and suitability letter. However, there are issues 
with the amount of cover, the term, the date the policy started and whether the further 
advance was on an interest only basis.
Lloyds say that the further advance was for £43,000 over a term of 17 years from June 2004 
and confirmed that it was on an interest only basis. The suitability letter records Mr C and 
Mrs C were likely to make sporadic capital repayments and I consider this supports the 
further advance was more likely than not set up as an interest only loan. The policy didnt 
start until August 2004, and when it did it was for £50,000 over 20 years.
Lloyds initially decided a level term assurance policy wasnt suitable for the further advance. 
It said the policy should reasonably have been put into effect when the further advance was 
drawn down, and it should have provided decreasing life cover for £43,000 over 17 years. 
However, Im not persuaded that the policy should have been decreasing term assurance as 
there appears to have been no definitive repayment vehicle for this part of the mortgage, and 
if Mr C or Mrs C died before the end of the term, a decreasing term policy would likely have 
left a shortfall. Because of this I dont think it was unreasonable for a level term assurance 
policy to have been recommended at the time, even though the policy terms werent suitable 
to fully protect the borrowing.
Lloyds has already paid Mr C and Mrs C £458.53 to reflect that the policy sold was 
unsuitable, but Lloyds later changed its mind when it reviewed the complaint. Its final 
response, dated 9 April 2021, explained it thought a level term assurance policy was suitable 
for the further advance, but that the term and sum assured werent suitable. Lloyds then 
recalculated what the redress would be on this basis and that it should pay Mr C and Mrs C 
£344.05. As this was less than it had already paid Mr C and Mrs C Lloyds said it wouldnt 
make any further payment.
Ive looked carefully at both the calculations Lloyds used and in my opinion the one used in the final response dated 9 April 2021 is a fair and reasonable one. Therefore, because 
Lloyds has already paid Mr C and Mrs C an amount which is more than the 9 April 2021 
calculation, Ive decided Lloyds doesnt need to do anything else.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC told them the level term 
assurance had to be taken to secure the business loan. And, as the remedy Lloyds Bank 
PLC has already paid Mr C and Mrs C for the policy having the incorrect term and sum 
assured is a fair and reasonable one, I wont be asking it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman