DRN-1598718
 
The complaint
Mr S and Ms S say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S and Ms S took out the policy in 1998 to cover their monthly mortgage repayments if 
either of them couldnt work due to disablement or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr S and Ms S disagreed with 
the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr S and Ms S case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
It was for Lloyds to ensure Mr S and Ms S were aware the PPI it was selling was optional 
and that they agreed to take it before it was added. I cant say for sure what was discussed 
but Ive seen a copy of the PPI application form Mr S and Ms S signed separately to their 
mortgage application. And Ive seen a copy of the direct debit instruction they signed for the 
collection of the monthly PPI premium. 
Overall, I dont see anything that would lead me to uphold the complaint on these grounds. 
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S and Ms S. So, as well as having to give them 
enough information for them to make an informed choice about taking it, Lloyds should have 
looked in to whether it was right for Mr S and Ms S. I dont know what steps Lloyds took but I 
think a recommendation to take the PPI was suitable for them in any case.
I say that because, from what Mr S and Ms S have told us about their circumstances in 
1998, it appears they were eligible for the PPI and that it was affordable for them. And I 
cant, for instance, see that theyd have been significantly affected by the main exclusions to, 
or limits on, the cover despite what theyve said about making a claim that was declined. 
Mr S and Ms S say they were entitled to enhanced sick pay and redundancy pay and had 
significant shares and savings they could have relied on if they were off work. But the PPI 
would have paid out for up to 12 months per claim, on top of any other income they received. 
Plus, it potentially allowed them to retain their shares and savings or put them to another use 
while they were off work, such as covering their other living costs. Not least because Mr S and Ms Ss borrowing was secured against their home, I think the 
PPI provided them with useful protection in addition to their other means.
Ive thought about the endowment policies Mr S and Ms S say they held. But I dont think this 
meant the PPI was unsuitable for them as it paid a regular benefit for disability or 
unemployment, whereas the endowments would have paid a lump sum benefit on death and 
possibly on diagnosis of a specified illness, depending on the specific cover. So, the PPI and 
endowments worked in different ways.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out everything it should have about the PPI. But I dont find 
that Mr S and Ms S lost out because of any failings. I say that because, for the same 
reasons I think the PPI was suitable and affordable for them, I dont think better information 
would have stopped Mr S and Ms S from buying it. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr S and Ms S lost out because of how Lloyds 
sold them the PPI.
My final decision 
For the reasons given, Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman