DRN-4065928
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) had technical problems with 
their online service which impacted him.
What happened
Mr C logged into his RBS online banking via his computer, and he tried to transfer between 
one of his savings accounts to another of his savings accounts by clicking on the quick 
transfer button. But he says an error message was displayed and it advised him to log in 
again. He says when he checked his account six minutes later, his transfer had not been 
completed. Mr C says his web browser is up to date, so he visited a branch the following 
day, which cost him £2.80 with car parking costs. Mr C says the staff member told him this 
wasnt a normal experience. Mr C made a complaint to RBS. 
RBS did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. They said that the payment he tried to make did go 
through. Their technical team said that the reason for the error message that was displayed 
was a result of an internet connection causing a connection issue to the online banking 
services. They gave advice to help Mr C fix the error message. RBS quoted the email 
address they held on file for him. Mr C brought his complaint to our service and he said the 
email address RBS quoted was somebody elses email address. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said the evidence showed the transfer 
went through on 3 February 2023, so even if the error message was due to an internal issue, 
the inconvenience was minimal. She said the evidence also showed that the email address 
held on file for Mr C is the same email address provided to our service. Our investigator said 
that the partial email address stated in the responses by RBS was incorrect but not 
detrimental. Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the error he saw on his computer. RBS technical 
team has said that this was due to a connectivity issue, but Mr C maintains that he had full 
strength connection at the time. It is possible that the connectivity could have briefly 
dropped, causing the error message, or this could be due to an internal issue on RBS side. 
So Ive considered the impact the error message would realistically have. 
While Mr C has sent us statements which do not show the transaction he attempted to 
complete on the day in question, RBS have sent us Mr Cs statements which show he was 
able to transfer money between his accounts around the time he told us he tried to make the 
transfer. So Im not persuaded that the error message would be more than a minor 
frustration as Mr C was able to transfer money between his accounts. 
Ive looked at an internal audit that RBS provided our service, this shows the time of the 
transaction was at 00:04am. From this audit, I can only see Mr C completing a transaction 
for £200 just seven minutes later at 00:11am and for £14.59 at 00:15am. So Im not 
persuaded the error affected his online banking activity to warrant compensation being paid 
here. Although Mr C visited a branch and incurred parking costs, Ive been provided no 
evidence that RBS advised him to do this. As he was able to make an online transfer, it 
would not be proportionate for me to ask RBS to cover his costs here. RBS have free 
alternative ways for him to contact them without him visiting a branch, such as their live chat 
facility.
Ive considered what Mr C has said regarding the incorrect partial email address being 
included in RBS response to him. While I agree that this was an oversight by RBS, they did 
not disclose another customers full email address. Mr C would not have been able to 
contact the person with the limited email address displayed in the response. Both of the 
responses from RBS displayed Mr Cs partial email address at the top of the communication. 
And RBS have confirmed the email address they hold on file for Mr C, which matches up 
with the email address he has provided our service. So Mr C should rest assured that they 
do have his correct details, although I can understand his concern at the incorrect partial 
email address being included in his response. So Im not persuaded that this oversight would 
warrant compensation due to the minimal impact this should have on Mr C. So it follows I 
dont require RBS to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman