DRN-3520730
The complaint
D complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled its claim on its commercial property 
insurance policy.
Ms C has brought this complaint on behalf of D. 
What happened
Ms C is a director of D. D has commercial property insurance with Aviva for its premises. In 
2017 D made a claim on the policy for subsidence after noticing cracks in the building. Aviva 
initially declined the claim, but later accepted it. 
Throughout the claim, D has made a number of complaints to Aviva. In April 2018 this 
service considered a complaint about the handling of the claim up until this date. The 
complaint was upheld and Aviva agreed to pay £1,500 compensation.
After this complaint, it was found that asbestos in the roof of the building had been disturbed. 
So all work and monitoring on the property had to stop in order for it to be cleaned and 
decontaminated. Ms C thought Aviva should cover the cost of this, but they declined to.
In 2020 Ms C contacted this service and asked it to consider her most recent complaints. 
She said she was unhappy with the handling of the claim throughout and the impact this had 
had on her and her joint director Mr S. She also thought Aviva should cover the cost of the 
asbestos removal and a full environmental clean of the property to ensure its safety. She 
also said that due to the asbestos contamination, theyd not been able to use the building for 
Ds business use so thought Aviva should cover its losses under the business interruption 
cover as well as covering damaged to business equipment. Finally, she said theyd had to 
pay for the help of a solicitor and thought Aviva should cover the costs of this. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be partially upheld. 
She said that as Aviva had accepted the claim for subsidence, and that in order for repairs to 
start the property would need to be decontaminated, it was fair for Aviva to pay reasonable 
costs for the clean. She also thought Aviva should pay D £800 for the inconvenience it had 
caused by delaying the claim. She also thought that a claim for the damaged contents 
should be considered but that Ms C hadnt provided enough information about the impact the 
matter had had on D for a successful claim under the business interruption cover. 
Aviva responded and agreed to pay the compensation. However it didnt agree that it should 
pay for the clean. It said damage caused by contamination is excluded under the policy. 
Further, it said it hadnt received a complaint about the decline of the business interruption 
claim or the claim for damaged contents, so it would need to consider these before they 
could be considered by this service.
Ms C didnt think the compensation our investigator recommended was enough. She said 
her and Mr S had suffered greatly because of the handling of the claim and that it had 
affected their health. So she thought a greater amount was due to make up for this.
As neither party agreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has said it will consider the declined business interruption and contents claim as a 
separate complaint, as it hasnt logged one about these issues previously. As these issues 
will form part of a new complaint, I wont comment on them further here. However if Ms C is 
unhappy with Avivas response to this, she may bring it to this service. 
This means the items that are left outstanding are the environmental clean, the solicitors 
fees and the compensation for the handling of the claim. Ill address these in turn.
Environmental clean
Aviva has said that any work or cleaning relating to the discovery of asbestos at the property 
arent covered by the policy. Its referenced the exclusion in the policy that relates to damage 
caused by pollution or contamination. 
Ive considered this but I dont think its fair for Aviva to apply this exclusion in the 
circumstances. From the evidence provided I can see that there was a need to solve the 
asbestos problem and decontaminate the property before work on the subsidence could 
continue. And as Aviva has accepted liability for the subsidence claim, I think its fair that 
these costs are also covered. 
While I accept that asbestos contamination in isolation wouldnt be covered under the policy, 
I have to consider whats fair and reasonable for this claim. When an insurer accepts a 
claim, it becomes its responsibility to ensure an effective and long-lasting repair. And this 
service recognises that sometimes, in order to achieve this, some uninsured work has to be 
completed that wouldnt otherwise be the insurers responsibility. Here, the decontamination 
of the property needs to be carried out in order for work to monitor and repair the subsidence 
damage to continue. And as it appears most likely that asbestos has been caused due to the 
subsidence problem, I think its fair for Aviva to cover the reasonable cost of an clean to 
ensure the property is safe as part of the claim.
I note that Aviva has said that it considers the asbestos to have been present at the 
premises already due to the nature of the business that D carries out. However, other than 
pointing out that link, it has provided no evidence to show that this is the case. From the 
evidence on file, and Ms Cs account, it seems the asbestos tests were done due to cracks 
in the roof in a similar area to the subsidence damage. And the asbestos report confirms 
this. So this persuades me that its most likely the asbestos was linked to the subsidence. 
And I dont think Aviva has done enough to prove otherwise. 
I note Ms C has provided a quote for D to carry out the clean itself. However this appears 
significantly disproportionate to the work required. I therefore wont require Aviva to base the 
settlement on this invoice. But instead should pay reasonable costs for the clean  basing 
this on how much it would cost its own appointed contractors to carry out the work required. 
Solicitors fees
For some of the claim Ms C instructed a solicitor to assist with contact between her and 
Aviva. Shes explained that she felt the matter had become so difficult to deal with that she 
felt this necessary. While I dont question her reasons for doing so, this isnt a cost Id ask Aviva to reimburse. As appointing a solicitor isnt a necessary part of the claim process but 
instead was Ms Cs decision for her circumstances. So I wont ask it to cover Ms Cs 
solicitors fees.
Compensation
As this service considered a complaint about this claim up until April 2018. Ive only 
considered the progress of the claim after this date as part of my review. However I agree 
with our investigator that Aviva has delayed the claim more than it should have and caused 
D unnecessary inconvenience. 
There have been numerous times when Ms C hasnt received responses to her requests and 
complaints, which have left her unable to make any further progress on the claim. This has 
been particularly inconvenient as Ms C has explained that D hadnt been able to use the 
premises before the decontamination clean took place. So delays to arranging this meant 
that this inconvenience lasted longer.
Ms C has also explained the impact the matter has had on both her and Mr S. And I can see 
theyve both been impacted by the stress of the matter and that they feel it has had a direct 
impact on their health. However as this complaint has been brought by a business  D  I 
can only consider the inconvenience that has been caused to D as a business, rather than 
the distress caused to Ms C and Mr S as individuals. So my compensation award reflects 
that position. 
Based on everything, I agree with our investigators recommendation that Aviva pay £800 
compensation to apologise for the unnecessary inconvenience it has caused B. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Ds complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay reasonable costs for a decontamination clean of the property to remove the 
asbestos. This should be based on how much it would cost Aviva to have the work 
carried out by a contractor it would appoint itself.
Pay D £800 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman