DRN-3983433
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Ald Automotive Limited, 
trading as Kia Contract Hire (who Ill call Ald).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mrs M, I am not asking Ald to take any action. 
Ill explain why.
Mrs M acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs M responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). Ill use that guidance when considering if the damage in the inspection report can 
fairly be considered to be beyond normal wear and tear and chargeable.
The charge for missing services
I understand Mrs Ms concerns here. An increasing number of dealerships are now recording 
the service information electronically and not stamping service books. I can understand that 
Mrs M may have expected Ald to have access to those records and Ive read her testimony 
that she was told to email the records over to Ald by the collection agent. However:
The BVRLA guidance says:
if the service record is kept electronically, the driver must produce evidence that the vehicle 
has been serviced and maintained according to the vehicle manufacturers service and 
maintenance schedule. Appropriate evidence would include hard copies of the service 
record or invoice.
And I can see that in May 2022 Ald wrote to Mrs M before she returned her car. The email 
explained in bold typeface:
Important Note: As a vehicle leasing company, we do not have access to the
manufacturers maintenance systems or the ability to read all the data that may be stored
electronically within the vehicle. Written evidence of service and maintenance completion
must be provided.
So, if Mrs M wanted to avoid a charge for missing services I think she had been put on 
notice that she would need to present the service records when she returned the car. 
Unfortunately, the car was sold by the time the business were provided with those records.
And Ald clearly werent able to access those service records as they sold the car without a 
full service history and have provided evidence they recovered less for the car than they or 
the trade guides would have expected.
I think a charge is therefore merited and that Ald have been fair to make one.
Mileage
There was nothing in the finance agreement that suggests Ald would reduce the end of term 
charges if the car was returned, as was the case here, having travelled less miles than 
contracted.
So, I dont think Ald were unfair not to offset the refurbishment charges against the higher 
sales value they may receive for a lower mileage car.
The damage charges.
Offside Front Alloy Wheel 
The BVRLA guidance says:
scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable.
Theres scuffing in excess of 140mm on the circumference of the rim in the inspection 
photograph. The damage is therefore in excess of the guidance and chargeable.
Front apron and Nearside B and C Post
The BVRLA guidance says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more
than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken. Dents on the roof or on the
swage line of any panel are not acceptable.
The size of the dent on the apron can be estimated from the ruler in the photograph. Its 
about 70mm and exceeds the BVRLA guidance. Its therefore chargeable.
The B post has a dent that appears to be less than 15mm but as the paint surface is broken 
it exceeds the BVRLA guidance and is chargeable.
The C post has more than two dents and two of the dents have broken the paint surface. So, 
the damage exceeds the BVRLA guidance and is also chargeable.
Offside C Post
The BVRLA guidance says:Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not
showing are acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four
surface scratches on one panel is acceptable.
There are a couple of scratches visible. One is in excess of 25mm, and they both appear to 
be through to the primer. The damage therefore exceeds the guidance and is chargeable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman