DRN-3280865
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them an 
Advance packaged account in January 2010. They are also unhappy that in 2014 HSBC 
began to offer the Advance account for free with an optional Insurance Aspect product. They 
say that this was not offered or explained to them.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think the account had been 
mis-sold. They also explained that HSBC has written to Mr and Mrs S in 2014 explaining that 
they had the option to just have an Advance account with no insurance products for free and 
that they could choose whether to have the Insurance Aspects for an additional fee.
Mr and Mrs Ss disagreed, mainly with the 2014 issue, as they think that they should have 
been offered a free account at this point and that it was not fair that some people received 
their account for free. They therefore asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used this to help me decide this case.
The sale of the Advance account
Mr and Mrs S have not said that they were unaware that the Advance account was optional. 
So I think they were more likely to have been aware fee-free accounts were available and 
they chose to have the account due to the benefits it came with.
HSBC says it sold the account on a non-advised basis. Mr and Mrs S say that the Advance 
account was recommended to them, but from what they described of the sales process, I 
dont think that a personal recommendation was made by HSBC. 
So based on what Mr and Mrs S have said, alongside what I know about HSBCs sales 
processes at the time, overall I dont think the account was sold on an advised or 
recommended basis. This means HSBC didnt have to check if it was right for them. But it 
did have to give them enough information about the account, so that they could decide if it 
was right for them.
Mr and Mrs S say that they were aware of the monthly fees on the account. Therefore I think 
its likely that they wouldve also been told what benefits theyd get in return for the monthly 
fee. As such, I think that Mr and Mrs S were more likely than not given some information 
about the account and the associated benefits that it came with, during the sale.
Due to the lack of information available from the sale, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S may 
not have been given all of the important information about the account. But Ive not seen 
anything about their circumstances that makes me think they wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to the account, had they been given more information about it. I appreciate that, 
with the benefit of hindsight, Mr and Mrs S may now think that the account has been poor 
value for money. But that does not mean that HSBC was wrong to have sold it to them when 
it did. And taking everything into account, Ive not seen enough to say that the Advance 
account was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs S.
The Advance account in 2014
Mr and Mrs S have said that they think that it is unfair that they were not offered their 
Advance account for free, when they believe that others were not paying for their account. I 
should explain that after the change in 2014 Mr and Mrs S were not actually paying for their 
Advance account. Instead, they were paying for a product called Insurance Aspects. To 
explain, in 2014 HSBC wrote to all customers saying that from now on the Advance account 
would be free but would not come with any insurance products. To ensure that people 
relying on the existing insurance products could continue to be insured the letter explained 
that existing customers would also have an optional insurance bundle added to their account 
that came with a monthly fee. This insurance bundle was added to the account on an opt-out 
basis. 
This means as Mr and Mrs S did not choose to remove this bundle they would have a fee 
free Advance account with an optional Insurance Aspect product which attracted a monthly 
fee. HSBC was entitled to do this with notice and I have seen a template copy of the letter 
that HSBC said it sent to all Advance account holders and on balance I think that this is the 
letter that was sent. So overall I cant say that HSBC did anything wrong in relation to this 
and I think it was the case that Mr and Mrs S were more likely than not given the opportunity 
to have the Advance account for free (by opting out of the Aspects package)
I understand that Mr and Mrs S may not recall this letter and as a result they may believe 
they are being charged for their account when others are not. But in actuality, until recently, 
they were paying for a bundle of insurances which they did not opt out of in 2014 rather than 
for the Advance account itself and I am satisfied that HSBC did enough to have notified them 
that this was going to occur.
I accept that this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs S, especially as they may now feel that 
they have not received value for money from their account. But taking everything into 
consideration, I dont think that the Advance account was sold incorrectly or that HSBC did 
anything wrong in 2014.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman