DRN-3373702
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained that Santander UK PLC, trading as Abbey National, mis-sold them 
mortgage Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) in 1997 with a mortgage.  
To keep things straightforward Ill refer mainly to Santander
Background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr and Mrs C with a view about this 
complaint. They said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed and have asked for an ombudsmans decision about the 
complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, I am not upholding this complaint. 
Ive looked at everything that has been submitted by both parties with care. Mr and Mrs C 
broadly imply they had no need for mortgage protection because they had good jobs and 
enjoyed good workplace benefits, such as sick pay and termination benefits which may have 
run to several months. Mr and Mrs C have also been very clear that they also had 
substantial savings in place and later referred to having other insurances, such as private 
health care. Essentially, Mr and Mrs C are saying they had no need for this type of cover.
Mr and Mrs C also make mention of having no real recollection of this policy being discussed 
at the time or of making a formal application. I have no doubt that may well be an honest 
belief now, but Im bound to also point out that this sale took place around 25 years ago and 
so it is obviously quite possible that Mr and Mrs C simply cant remember everything that 
happened. They have also made reference to Santanders record keeping; by this I mean we 
have access to only very limited documentation and records for the actual sale. However, for 
these types of financial products, businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely and 
I note the policy was closed, also many years ago.
In cases like this therefore, I use my considerable experience of such policies. Ive seen a 
great many similar Santander sales and am familiar with the documents and processes that 
were typically used in the late 1990s. I have also taken account of what the parties have 
said. Ive used all these things to help me think about what is more likely to have happened.
Ive concluded the mortgage was likely a joint one. This is implied in Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint which consistently refers to the their joint circumstances and workplace benefits. 
Its also implied on some of the Santander documentation Ive seen. I return to these matters 
later. 
Did Mr and Mrs C agree to the PPI?
The first thing I have looked at is whether Mr and Mrs C agreed to this policy. As I say, we 
have no actual paperwork showing they were given the choice or that they signed in 
agreement, but I do think its highly likely they agreed. I note, for example, that Mr and Mrs C 
probably had a joint mortgage, however this policy only covered Mr C. So, I think this tends 
to show there was probably a discussion between the parties - and indeed between Mr and 
Mrs C themselves  about what they wanted to do. I think its more likely they concluded 
they wanted only Mr C, rather than both, named on the policy.
In any event, I further note the existence of a policy schedule. Mr C says his occupation was 
entered on to this incorrectly. However, whilst this may be so, I consider this a very minor 
oversight; this document shows who was covered, what was covered and how much the 
policy cost. All his other personal details appear to be correct. There is no dispute now that 
PPI was sold, so I consider it highly unlikely that this schedule we now have a copy of wasnt 
sent or given to the person named on the policy  Mr C.
Whilst accepting there are some gaps in the sale information in this case, this isnt that 
unusual, or indeed unreasonable, given when it was. However, the above things all strongly 
show me that its much more likely that this policy was agreed to by Mr and Mrs C. I think 
they probably discussed the cover they wanted to have and were sent confirmation of the 
setting up of the PPI. I also think the cost of the cover would have been agreed and also the 
subject of a direct debit, or similar, to transfer the monthly premiums from Mr and Mrs Cs 
bank account. 
I also see Mr C was sent a letter in November 1997 which said, I would like to welcome you 
to your Abbey National Paymentcare Policy. This also told him how to cancel the policy if 
he had changed his mind.
To be clear then, I think there is significant and reliable evidence here that Mr and Mrs C 
agreed to the policy and would have known it wasnt something they needed to buy. In my 
view Santander correctly obtained their consent.
Suitability of the PPI
The second part of the complaint refers to whether or not the PPI was suitable. Santander 
accepts that it had a duty in this regard. 
I have already set out, in broad terms, why Mr and Mrs C think it wasnt suitable. I accept Mr 
and Mrs C had good jobs which most likely came with benefits such as sickness protection. I 
also accept they probably had savings in place. However, Ill deal with their issue of them 
having a high household income, demonstrated in particular, by Mr C saying he had a salary 
of around £85,000 pa in the 1990s. Ive thought about this  and whilst Im sure having a 
higher, rather than a lower, salary is considered beneficial, the sudden loss of that income 
due to unforeseen events would be of concern and indeed just as impactive for any 
household.
Im also afraid the other things dont make the policy unsuitable for them either. This was a 
mortgage secured against their home, so the consequences of them not being able to work, 
or becoming ill, were important considerations. In my view, the taking out of insurance (of 
any kind) is not necessarily predicated on, or wholly governed by, already having other forms 
of protection in place and we see many cases where consumers decide to be insured 
despite having various other reserves available to them. This policy involved a moderate sum of less than £8 per month which could have paid out £160 for up to 12 months in certain 
circumstances. 
In this context, I dont think Santander did anything wrong in recommending the PPI as 
something Mr and Mrs C might want to consider. Mortgage protection is an important 
consideration for many people, and as I say, I think Mr and Mrs C did consider the 
recommendation, with the evidence pointing to it being something they wanted to have for 
Mr C. So, I think this cover was suitable for them.
Ive also considered the matter of private health care. I do not consider this type of cover as 
being material to this complaint as it does not conflict in any way with having mortgage 
protection. In my experience private health insurance provides certain reassurances around 
health matters such as fast-track medical care and access to specialists. It is not commonly 
associated with protection against unemployment or being off ill from work and Mr and Mrs C 
havent implied anything different in their submissions.
Were Mr and Mrs C given / told enough?
Finally, I have considered whether Mr and Mrs C were given enough information. I think they 
probably were. I have already mentioned the policy schedule and welcome letter. I have no 
reason to believe they were not also given a policy booklet explaining the policy rules. I was 
sent a copy of such a document. I think this adequately set the information Mr and Mrs C 
would have wanted to refer to. Overall, I think Mr and Mrs C had enough information on 
which to make an informed choice.
I note Mr and Mrs C feel strongly about what they regard as a mis-sold policy and I have 
read through all the long submissions they make. However, the role of our Service is to 
investigate fairly and listen to both sides, which is what Ive done. I fully understand the 
points Mr and Mrs C have made and I also see they feel they have encountered some 
difficulties in bringing their complaint. Im very sorry to hear of the difficulties they say they 
have faced and Im very sorry their complaint has taken a while to reach this final stage.
Nevertheless, Im afraid I dont agree the policy was mis-sold. In my view, there is much 
more information and indeed compelling evidence to show Mr and Mrs C were aware, or 
ought to have been aware, of the sale and what the policy did. They would have needed to 
authorise the monthly payments and there is no evidence that Mr C, the policyholder, 
wasnt eligible and able to benefit from the cover in certain circumstances. Santander most 
likely provided information that was clear, fair and not misleading, or at least to a degree 
where Mr and Mrs C were able to make an informed choice.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C. However, this is a final decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint 
I do not direct Santander UK PLC to do anything more to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
either accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman