DRN-1628846
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that TSB Bank plc didnt give her a consistent explanation of why her 
application for a credit card had been declined or phone her back when it promised to.
What happened
Mrs C applied for the credit card in branch on 21 February 2019 but was told it was declined. 
She says that the two members of staff she dealt with expressed surprise and said that they 
would look into this for her. Mrs C says she phoned about this weekly having not had a call 
back. She says that shed been told that the reason the application was declined may be 
because she hadnt had an account with TSB for that long. But when she complained about 
what happened reference was made to external information which concerned her. She 
followed this up and is still not happy with the explanation  or the compensation for poor 
service of £10 that TSB has paid her.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs C be paid a further £40 making total compensation 
of £50. He said that the information about TSBs lending criteria was commercially sensitive. 
And so he wouldnt expect it to give any precise reasons why Mrs Cs application wasnt 
successful. He was satisfied it followed its normal automated process. But he accepted that 
Mrs C was told she would receive a call back from branch staff about this. As this didnt 
happen she followed this up and raised further questions after a final response on 1 May 
2019. TSB issued a further response on 20 June 2019. TSB said that Mrs C had been given 
the benefit of the doubt about the call back. But thats not what the final response said and 
he didnt think that the compensation was sufficient.
TSB didnt agree. It said that it isnt in the habit of doubting a customers word but thought 
that there might have been a misunderstanding. And its aim was to settle things quickly for 
minor inconveniences. Thats why it didnt go into any detail about the call back in the final 
response. The customer notes dont suggest any call back was going to be made then but 
that contact would be made in a couple of months to see whether an application could be 
progressed. As Mrs C had said she had checked her credit file and found no issues it 
wondered if this was the reason for her calling the branch. TBS said that Mrs Cs frustration 
is due to her not knowing exactly why her application was declined  not due to any failure to 
call her back. Because even if she had received a call back the answer would have been the 
same and she shouldnt be compensated for that. It said that her further contact with TSB 
was only because she hadnt been told the reason for the decline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant resolve exactly what was said to Mrs C in a branch. But I think its fair that any 
comments TSB has made about this and her complaint are interpreted in a straightforward way. Its a matter for TSB to decide how to deal with any investigation and whether or not to 
contact the branch staff involved.
In the final response of 1 May 2019 TSB said Please accept our apologies for not receiving 
a call back following your request to branch. We know how important it is to deliver the 
experience we promise to our customers, sorry that this has not happened this time. We 
really appreciate your comments as they enable us to learn and given feedback to ensure 
we deliver excellent customer service.
In the final response of 20 June 2019 TSB said that since the first response Mrs C had come 
to it about the following issues as they werent fully resolved.
You were unhappy with the explanation TSB has given you as to why your 
application was declined.
You are unhappy as you had been given contradicting information.
We have let you down. We understand the importance of providing a helpful and efficient 
service and it was not our intention to cause you any inconvenience. Please accept our 
apologies; we hope our actions going forward can begin to restore our confidence in you. 
Were sorry we couldnt respond[]  to you as quickly as wed like but we can see the issues 
you experienced at the time you came back to us are now resolved
I dont intend to go behind comments in which I consider TSB has accepted some fault. I 
accept that TSB would never have been in a position to give Mrs C a precise reason for her 
credit card application being declined  not least because the decision was generated by an 
automated system. But Im satisfied based on what Mrs C said that it had told it would 
contact her about this and that it gave her different explanations  one about her time as a 
customer with TSB and the other in the final response a more generic one including 
reference to external information. Im satisfied that this poor service had resulted in Mrs C 
contacting the branch further and then pursuing this with the complaints department. She 
didnt think that her complaint should have been closed as things werent resolved and she 
referred the matter to this service. I think to say that Mrs C would have been similarly 
frustrated if she had received the call back misses the point here about the issues with what 
did actually happen.
Putting things right
The issue I am now fairly considering is compensation. I have considered what TSB has said 
carefully but I agree with our investigator that the appropriate total is £50.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require TSB Bank plc to pay Mrs C a 
further £40 making a total of £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman