DRN-3369525
The complaint
Mrs F complains that One Insurance Limited avoided her motor insurance policy and refused 
to pay her claim.
What happened
Mrs F had a motor insurance policy with One Insurance from February 2020, renewing the 
policy in February 2021. In September 2020 Mrs F contacted One Insurance to update the 
new vehicle details. Unfortunately, the vehicle was stolen in July 2021 and so Mrs F 
contacted One Insurance to lodge a claim for the theft. It then came to light, when Mrs F 
provided the finance statement for the vehicle, that she wasnt the registered owner or 
keeper of the vehicle, though the policy stated she was. Given this, One Insurance told    
Mrs F that it was declining her claim and avoiding her policy from the date of its renewal. 
One Insurance returned the premiums paid by Mrs F.
Mrs F complained to One Insurance about its decision, but it didnt uphold it. One Insurance 
said shed answered the question it asked about the registered owner and keeper incorrectly 
or at least that shed failed to update the details reasonably. The policy documents were 
issued with Mrs F listed as the registered owner and keeper, as were the policy documents 
issued at the renewal of the policy. One Insurance said that as Mrs F wasnt the registered 
owner or keeper of the vehicle, and the actual owner was her daughter. As such, had it 
known this, it wouldnt have offered to cover the vehicle (or at least not offered cover at 
renewal). One Insurance confirmed its decision to avoid the policy from renewal and 
declined her claim.
Mrs F wasnt happy at One Insurances response and complained to our service. Her main 
concern was that One Insurance shouldnt have declined the claim. And as a result, shed 
had to buy another vehicle, while still having to pay for the stolen one. She wanted           
One Insurance to settle her claim fully. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded as the policy documents had 
Mrs F listed as the owner and keeper of the vehicle  and she hadnt told One Insurance that 
this was incorrect  she made a misrepresentation when amending the vehicle details on the 
policy and at its renewal. Based on this, the investigator concluded One Insurance had acted 
fairly in avoiding the policy and declining the claim.
Mrs F disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In asking for the review Mrs F said it was human error as she didnt know she needed to 
change these details as the vehicle was changed mid-term and she said at renewal there 
was no paperwork to sign as it was an automatic roll over.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
One insurance think Mrs F failed to take reasonable care when she didnt notify it that she 
wasnt the registered owner and keeper of the vehicle. Ive considered the circumstances 
and evidence relating to Mrs F not notifying One Insurance that she wasnt the registered 
owner or keeper. I think several points are relevant. First, Ive considered the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Fs policy, specifically those relating to information provided by the 
policyholder. The Statement of Fact issued at the time of the renewal states, under the 
heading Important Notes:
 Statement
It is an offence under the Road Traffic Act to make a false statement or withhold any 
material information for the purposes of obtaining a Certificate of Insurance. You are 
urged in your own interest to ensure that this form is fully and correctly completed. 
Material information is information ONE Insurance would regard as likely to influence 
the acceptance and assessment of the contract (if you are in any doubt you should 
disclose the information).
 
You agree to the best of your knowledge and belief the statements and particulars on 
this form (including any information overleaf) whether computer printed or written by 
you on your behalf are true and complete and you have not withheld any material 
information. You will advise your broker of any change to this information 
Within the renewal, under the Fair Representation of Data notice, it states:
If your circumstances, or any other material information, have changed during the 
last year you must advise us before you renew your policy. If you do not this may 
result in your insurance being invalidated or any claims rejected. If you are in doubt 
about whether something is relevant, you should ask us. You must give us the new 
information by phone or in writing.
Examples of material information that should be disclosed to us include: 
A change to any of the facts shown in the Policy Details above.  
One Insurance has provided us with evidence to show Mrs F updated her vehicle details via 
the live chat function and prior to speaking to an agent Mrs F was able to provide the details 
of the vehicle change. On the form it asks for both Vehicle Legal Owner and Vehicle 
Registered Keeper, the answer given to both is Me (policy holder) (Mrs F). The Statement 
of Fact at the policy renewal states the same answer Proposer (Mrs F) for Registered Keeper of Vehicle and Owner of Vehicle.
I think the wording of the Statement of Fact and the Fair Representation of Data notice 
should have led Mrs F to tell One Insurance that she wasnt the registered owner or keeper. 
That should also have been the case at the policy renewal. While I accept it may have been 
a genuine human error on Mrs Fs part in not telling One Insurance, Ive concluded that    
Mrs F didnt take reasonable care and misrepresented the circumstances when not telling 
One Insurance who the actual registered owner and keeper of the vehicle was. 
One Insurance say had it known, it wouldnt have offered cover. Ive also seen evidence that 
One Insurance wouldnt, under its own underwriting guidelines, have offered to cover the 
vehicle if Mrs Fs daughter was the registered owner and keeper. That means Im satisfied 
Mrs Fs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. As I accept that Mrs F may have made a 
genuine human error, I think her misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate or 
reckless.
As Im satisfied Mrs Fs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions One Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA. CIDRA states that when theres 
a careless misrepresentation the insurer may still avoid the policy where it wouldnt have 
offered the cover at all, but it should refund the insurance premiums for the relevant period of 
the cover. As Ive noted, had One Insurance been informed that Mrs Fs daughter was the 
registered owner or keeper then it wouldnt have provided cover at all. Given this, then Ive 
concluded that One Insurance acted fairly, in accordance with CIDRA, in avoiding the policy 
(from the date of policy renewal) but returning the premiums. As such, Ive also concluded 
that One Insurance acted fairly in declining Mrs Fs claim.      
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman