DRN-1637862
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the way Hiscox Insurance Company Limited administered 
the renewal of their home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs L took out home insurance with Hiscox. A survey was carried out on 
their property, and the amounts insured under the policy were amended in 2018. In October 
2018 Mr and Mrs L received renewal paperwork for the policy. This decision deals only with 
the renewal.
On receipt of the renewal paperwork, which was emailed to Mr L, he raised some concerns. 
And he requested the documentation be posted to him, as he wanted hard copies. Mr L said 
that the increase of premium (including insurance tax) by 7% was very disappointing and 
that he didnt expect indexation to be applied to art and valuables. He wanted further 
information on any changes made to the policy wording and schedule, as well as clarity on 
who was responsible for his renewal. 
In November 2018, Mr L raised a complaint with Hiscox about his renewal. This complaint 
was made up of 12 points, relating to the way his paperwork was received; time allowed for 
reviewing it and the content of the paperwork  in particular issues with the premium 
increase and the way Hiscox had calculated indexation and inflation.
Hiscox didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint overall. It accepted it had given him less time than it 
aimed to for reviewing the paperwork  by two days. And that it had sent Mr L a document in 
error which didnt relate to his cover. So it upheld these aspects. But it rejected the other 
points. It said it had provided the paperwork by a durable medium when emailing it, as 
allowed by the rules. It thought it had provided sufficient information in relation to the 
premium increases and indexation  and offered for Mr L to provide comparable indexation 
information from a more trusted source if he had it. It also was satisfied the documentation 
was clear.
Mr L disagreed with Hiscoxs response, so brought his complaint to our service. He 
maintained that Hiscox had misrepresented information to him and had improperly priced his 
home insurance at renewal. He wanted our service to direct Hiscox to compensate him for 
his time, stress and for the increased premium hed paid. And to censure Hiscox and report it 
to regulatory bodies.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint, as he didnt consider Hiscox had done 
anything wrong  or that Mr L was due a compensation award. Mr L disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. He provided a 60-point response which, in summary, maintained 
that his policy was unclear in relation to who his insurer was; that the policy was 
misrepresented to him  both in terms of how the documentation was written as well as the 
cost of it; and that he wasnt given the required information in a durable medium, in sufficient 
time. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has previously explained to Mr L, our service is an informal, alternative to 
the courts. Our role is to reach a fair outcome on the crux of the matter brought to us. So 
while I have read all Mr Ls submissions in full, my decision will focus on the key concerns 
hes raised, rather than addressing every smaller point in detail.
Mr L is unhappy that Hiscox emailed him his renewal information rather than sending this to 
him by post. Hes pointed out that the rules (ICOBS 6.5) say that this must be done via a 
durable medium  which is a defined term. Our investigator said Hiscox was still able to 
send the information electronically under this definition. But I agree with Mr L that the 
definition requires the consumer to have specifically chosen for the information to be sent in 
another format (such as electronically), if the information isnt sent on paper. Mr L says he 
had, and always does, select for documentation to be sent on paper rather than by email. So 
I accept, in line with the rules, if he hadnt agreed otherwise, Hiscox shouldve posted the 
documentation out to him. So Ive considered whether emailing, rather than posting the 
documents initially, makes a difference to the outcome of this case.
Mr L asked for hard copies of the documents on 15 October 2018. Seemingly, by his email 
to Hiscox, he received the documentation on 19 October 2018, so nearly two weeks before 
his renewal  and four days after his request. In his email response, in which he requested 
hard copies of the paperwork, I can see that he's asked questions about the renewal and the 
premium increase. From this it seems he was able to begin to read and understand the 
paperwork in advance of the hard copies being sent. So with all this in mind, I dont think 
initially receiving email documentation has caused Mr L detriment to the extent in which I 
would award any compensation.
Mr L has raised a number of complaint points about the way Hiscox presents its information 
and the way it has calculated and determined the indexation rates. While I have read his 
complaint points around this, ultimately I cant see how he has actually lost out. If he was 
unhappy with the information Hiscox gave him or how it calculated his premium and/or 
cover, he had the option to take out cover elsewhere. In his complaint letter hes explained 
that he was previously insured with a company that didnt apply indexation to fine art, for 
example, so Im satisfied he understands that different insures will calculate their cover in 
different ways and that he can insure elsewhere.
Mr L has also raised concerns about the indexation increases in his policy at renewal. He 
says that Hiscox has disregarded its own policy wording which says it wont increase the 
premium during the period of his insurance. However I am only looking at Mr Ls renewal in 
October 2018. And as this occurred at the end of one period of insurance and the start of 
another, I cant see how it could breach this term at renewal. And, while the policy wording 
does say that the amount insured may be adjusted each month according to an appropriate 
index, it also confirms his premium will not change. At renewal, Mr L hadnt yet taken this 
new cover, so he cant have lost out due to this term. And if he didnt agree that Hiscox 
should be able to do this, he was free to go find another insurer who didnt apply a term like 
this. 
Mr L also says that the indexation term in the policy is not transparent and is an unfair 
contract term. But I think the term gives the required information  so doesnt create an 
imbalance between him and the business. I appreciate the term says according to an 
appropriate index which isnt specific. But Hiscox has, when asked, explained that a number 
of factors contribute to which index is used  and that these are different between the 
different areas the policy covers, such as between physical buildings and consumer goods  
with examples of indexes used. I consider this an acceptable response and as much as was required. Hiscox isnt required to disclose commercially sensitive information to a customer 
and it has explained to Mr L why the term only says appropriate and doesnt give exact 
details. This term, after all, applies to the policy as a whole.
Mr L believes Hiscox needed to provide more information than it has on the indexation and 
has argued that the rates applied on his policy are too high. But this seems to be based 
entirely on his opinion. He hasnt been able to explain what a more appropriate source for 
indexation would be. Nor has he provided any evidence from a comparably qualified source 
to show the value of his home and contents hadnt increased in the way Hiscox calculated  
which he couldve obtained. Instead, he disagreed, but also took out the cover as it was. And 
without comparable expert evidence, I see no reason to say Hiscox has calculated the 
indexation incorrectly or unfairly. Or that it needed to provide further detail on its internal 
calculations.
Mr L has argued he was forced to renew with Hiscox, as he wasnt given enough time to 
review the documentation. I accept it wouldve been helpful for him to have more time, 
considering the level of detailed calculations he considered were needed. And Hiscox has 
acknowledged he received the documentation two days later than it expected to provide it. 
But ultimately he was able to see what Hiscox was intending to charge him and what it 
considered his home needed to be insured for. I understand Mr L wanted physical copies of 
the documents and these took a further week to arrive, but this still left him nearly two weeks 
to review the documentation and find cover elsewhere if he was unhappy. So I dont accept 
he was forced to renew with Hiscox. 
I also say this because, while this complaint has been on-going, Mr L has raised these 
issues again in 2019  saying he didnt receive hard copies of his documentation in sufficient 
time and again raising concerns around the indexation and price increases. While I cant 
comment on what happened at renewal in 2019, as Mr L has disclosed the repetition of this 
situation to us, I can factor this in as part of my decision. While Hiscox has a duty to provide 
the right information to Mr L, he also needs to factor in his own situation and mitigate any 
losses. Given that he wouldve been made aware of when his renewal was going to be, it 
seems reasonable to expect Mr L to contact his insurer ahead of time, if he felt that hed like 
more time to review his documentation than he was being given.
Mr L has pointed out that there are several business names for Hiscox on his paperwork, 
some of which are separate companies and others trading names of another part of Hiscox. 
And hes also raised this again in 2019. I acknowledge that this is correct, however its not 
unusual for a large insurer to have different companies or trading names, considering the 
number of different elements that make up the administration and underwriting of an 
insurance contract. And Ive not seen how this has caused Mr L any material problems or 
loss. I especially say this because Mr L has been able to correspond with Hiscox easily and 
theres no evidence his concerns around this have led to any problems with his insurance, 
so I dont uphold this part of his complaint.
In the same respect Mr L has raised a number of points around the names of different 
documents and that these dont always exactly match up when cross-referencing 
documentation. However I also fail to see how this has caused him any real detriment. By 
virtue of this complaint, its clear hes been able to navigate the documentation provided and 
understands where to find all aspects of his cover. So I see no grounds to uphold this part of 
his complaint.
Mr L says that Hiscox misrepresented the premium increase on his paperwork. But again, 
reviewing his case, I fail to see how this has caused him any loss.As Ive set out above, Mr L chose to go ahead with Hiscox despite his concerns around 
these figures. And, more importantly, he accepts himself that the overall percentage 
increase in his premium is 0.0182% different to what was stated on the letter he received, 
with Hiscox giving a percentage to only one decimal place. And so 7.3% is an accurate 
figure if you round the percentage increase to one decimal place. On that basis, I cant agree 
this was a hidden charge as hes suggested. I also note that when he first raised concerns 
around this increase, Mr L quoted a figure of 7%, so he himself rounded down the figure. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest Hiscox committed to this figure being accurate to four decimal 
places and so have misrepresented it. And I accept rounding to one decimal place is a fair 
way to show a figure and would be acceptable to most customers. And, most importantly, 
the amount Mr L was to be charged was accurate and clear.
It also doesnt seem Mr L had any intention of attempting to split his insurance over different 
insurers, for example covering his buildings by one and art collection by another  if this is 
even possible. So while I accept the figures provided for each element of the insurance may 
not match the exact percentages Mr L has calculated, overall the amount he was quoted for 
the cover was correct. Hiscox clearly told him the amount of cover each element would 
benefit from at renewal and overall what this would cost him. And I consider most people 
determine their insurance based on these two factors, rather than whether an individual 
element has been given the exact accurate percentage increase.
I understand Mr L feels our service is disregarding his complaint around this issue, but 
simply put, I dont see how this has actually caused Mr L any detriment. Hiscox has told us, 
which I accept, that there are a number of factors that make up an increase in premiums at 
renewal and that the percentages provided are for how much the insured amount has 
increased, not Mr Ls premium. But even if I were to accept Mr Ls calculations, overall the 
figure he was quoted was correct for the cover he was offered, which he accepted by taking 
out the insurance. I consider that Hiscox has set out the information Mr L needed to decide if 
he wanted to go ahead with this cover in a clear and accessible way. And, in line with the 
rules, it has made it possible for Mr L to know the price hell be charged alongside the level 
of cover, so if he wanted to, he couldve easily compared this with alternative providers. So 
Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman