DRN-3140404
Complaint
Mrs G and Mr G have complained about the overdraft charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
applied to their current account. Theyve said HSBC applied arranged and unarranged 
charges when they were in financial difficulty.
Background
Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that 
HSBC had done anything wrong as HSBC didnt have reason to suspect they may have 
been in financial difficulty. So he didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G and Mr G disagreed with 
the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs G and Mr Gs
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCS charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs G and Mr G if it applied these interest, fees and charges 
to Mrs G and Mr Gs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mrs G and Mr G was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive 
considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mrs G and Mr G fairly and 
reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where HSBC continued charging 
Mrs G and Mr G even though it ought to have known they were in financial difficulty or it 
ought to have realised this was the case. Ive looked through Mrs G and Mr Gs statements 
throughout the period concerned. And I cant see that HSBC ought to have been aware that 
Mrs G and Mr G might have been struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Mrs G and Mr G did exceed their overdraft limit on occasion. But the 
unarranged overdraft charges on Mrs G and Mr Gs account were incurred sporadically  
certainly up until 2019. And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements 
over Mrs G and Mr G expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going from the account. 
Id also add that Mrs G and Mr G appear to have had sufficient funds in other HSBC 
accounts such that it could have concluded the overdraft could be repaid within a reasonable 
period of time too.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mrs G and Mr G 
werent experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in 
themselves which ought to have alerted HSBC to potential financial difficulty. I know Mrs G 
and Mr G are of the view a more thorough review of their circumstances should have taken 
place. But Id only expect a bank to carry out that sort of assessment if they were told of any 
financial difficulty or it was obviously the case from the transactions on the account. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mrs G and Mr G, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to have proceeded adding the charges that it 
did. And I dont think HSBC unfairly charged Mrs G and Mr G in circumstances where it 
ought to have realised that she may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Ive seen what Mrs G and Mr G has said about their financial position. And Im sorry to hear 
about their difficulty after Mr G lost his job. But overall I dont think that HSBC did anything 
wrong or treated them unfairly. So I dont think that HSBC needs to refund any interest, fees 
and charges and Im not upholding Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs G and Mr G  especially as they have 
been waiting sometime for an answer from us. But I hope theyll understand the reasons for 
my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman