The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc wont compensate him for money that was taken from 
him in a branch and the bank charges that resulted.
What happened
Mr K went into a branch to pay in £400 using the deposit machine on 10 December 2019. He 
inserted his card and PIN and put in the notes which were being counted. He says he looked 
out of the window and saw a traffic warden was showing interest in his car. He rushed out 
leaving the card and cash and asked a member of staff to keep an eye on them. When he 
came back the money and his card was gone and he was unhappy with the reaction of staff 
about this. He called the police and CCTV was viewed showing someone taking the money 
and leaving with it. As he couldnt pay in the money he has had to pay extra bank charges 
for being overdrawn.
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding the £400. The members of staff in branch said that 
Mr K hadnt spoken to them before he rushed out. And it isnt responsible for his money 
being taken. It said that the CCTV which was watched showed this. It had provided the 
CCTV to the police and couldnt account for why the discs sent were said to be blank. 
Santander said it no longer had its copy. It agreed to refund bank charges of £48 resulting 
from an unauthorised overdraft. But it said that the other charges were due.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Santander do more than refund additional charges of 
£23 incurred after Santander had said it would be putting its collection activity for the 
overdraft on hold in March 2020. He had received a statement from a police officer who had 
attended the branch that day. That officer had viewed the CCTV and confirmed what 
Santander had said which was that Mr K had seen a traffic warden and then runs out of the 
branch to speak to the traffic warden without speaking to staff. He didnt ask staff to look 
after his card/cash The CCTV discs were blank on both occasions they were sent and so 
the case was closed. Our investigator said that police had already been able to watch this 
and hadnt been able to identify a suspect. Mr K had indicated that person may have had a 
hood and face covered. And even if the person had been identified it is unlikely that Mr K 
would have got his money back. 
He had looked at Mr Ks account statement and could see that he was regularly in overdraft 
and paid charges. He thought that even if hed paid in this money hed have used it too. 
Santander had refunded some charges and it had now agreed to refund the further £23 
which was fair. It was going to be up to Mr K to discuss the debt with Santander.
Mr K didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He was struggling financially. He 
maintained that he had told the member of staff to look after his money. And as Santander 
DRN-1802303didnt provide the CCTV it stopped any other action being taken. He cant repay this debt 
and wants Santander to write it off and close his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to hear that Mr Ks money and card was taken by an opportunistic thief in a 
branch while he was distracted with a traffic warden over a parking issue. And also that 
police havent been able to identify the person responsible and recover his money. This loss 
has caused him financial problems and clear distress.
But Im afraid that I think that the person responsible for his money being taken is the thief 
alone and not Santander. Im sure Mr K would have wanted staff to look after his money and 
card.  I dont though have sufficient evidence to find that he asked staff to do so - or that any 
member of staff agreed to or was in a position to help him at the time. There is a direct 
dispute between what he and members of staff have said in statements. And a police officer 
who viewed the CCTV at the branch has as quoted above confirmed what staff members 
have said. 
I can understand Mr Ks frustration at there being no copy of the CCTV now available. It 
clearly existed at the time. And the police officer says there were two discs received but they 
were blank. I dont doubt that Santander provided them in good faith but clearly some 
mistake was made with the copying. And it no loner has its own copy. But I agree with what 
the investigators said about this. Im not persuaded that even had the CCTV been available 
if would have led to Mr Ks money being recovered. Not only would the person carrying out 
the crime have needed to be identified and successfully prosecuted. But also that person 
would have had to pay back Mr Ks money. I think a person who would take money in this 
way is unlikely to repay it even if brought to justice.  
Mr K hasnt had this money so I understand why he thinks the bank charges are unfair. But 
again I dont think any mistake with the charges was made. Santander as a gesture of 
goodwill refunded £48 of charges and has now agreed to refund the £23 of charges that 
were due after Mr Ks account was passed to collections.
Putting things right
I know Mr K will be disappointed when I say that I think that the refund of charges as Ive set 
out is a reasonable resolution to the complaint. And I dont have a basis to require Santander 
to do more and credit him with the stolen £400. Id expect Santander to deal with Mr Ks 
financial problems sympathetically and to take into account his means when discussing 
repayment with him.
 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Santander UK Plc to refund a 
further £23 of charges to Mr K as it has now agreed to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman