DRN-3408624
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy because Goldman Sachs International Bank (trading as Marcus) has 
changed the way they allow him to generate one-time passcodes (OTPs) and has 
threatened to close his online savings account because he doesnt have a mobile phone.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary.
In late-2018 Mr R wanted to open an online savings account with Goldman Sachs. He 
initially complained that he was asked to provide a mobile phone number as part of the 
application process. But, in the end, he provided a number which enabled him to open 
the account.
A couple of weeks after opening the account, Mr R asked Goldman Sachs to remove the 
mobile phone number from his records. They refused, but Mr R was able to manage his 
account without the use of a mobile phone until early-December 2019. 
In early-December 2019 Mr R contacted Goldman Sachs because hed been unable to 
complete the authentication process in the way hed done in previous months  by 
requesting a one-time passcode (OTP) be sent to his email address. This was because 
Goldman Sachs had removed this facility, which meant OTPs could only be sent to the 
mobile phone number registered to the account or by calling the contact centre, passing 
security and requesting the OTP be sent by email.
After Mr R told Goldman Sachs that he no longer had access to the mobile phone 
number that was registered to his account, they gave him two months notice to close his 
account. The closure was avoided after Mr R provided a new mobile phone number, but 
hes subsequently said this is his friends number and he does not have access to it.
Mr R thinks Goldman Sachs are acting unfairly and contrary to the guidance/best practice 
thats been given about how businesses should implement Strong Customer Authentication 
(SCA) in order to guard against digital exclusion.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, setting out why I didnt think Goldman 
Sachs had acted unfairly or unreasonably in changing its authorisation processes or seeking 
to close Mr Rs account unless he provides them with a mobile phone number to which he 
has permanent access and which he will use in the future to undertake the majority of his 
transactions. I have reproduced my provisional findings here:
Ive had regard to Mr Rs comments and the SCA guidance (along with any related rules, 
regulations and best practice) when making my decision but I must also take into 
account what I believe, overall, to be fair and reasonable. I, ultimately, agree with 
Goldman Sachs assertion that SCA provisions do not apply to Mr Rs account. The 
underlying regulations say SCA must be applied in certain circumstances and I dont 
currently think any of those apply to the relationship Mr R has with Goldman Sachs in 
relation to his online savings account. 
The account terms and conditions do not say specifically that Mr R must provide at the 
outset, and continue to hold on his account, a mobile phone number. But nor do those 
terms and conditions set out all of the other account eligibility criteria. The account 
requirements do, however, appear to have been set out on Goldman Sachs website. 
These include being aged 18 or over and a UK resident as well as the need to provide 
details of a UK current account held in the customers name and their own email address 
and mobile phone number. Im not currently persuaded Goldman Sachs insistence that 
Mr R provide his own mobile phone number goes against the terms and conditions of the 
account. Its also clear Mr R understood the need to provide a mobile phone number in 
order to open and operate the account as he specifically complained about this before 
opening his account. He then provided a friends number in order to be able to proceed 
with the account opening and benefit from the favourable rate of interest Goldman Sachs 
was offering. 
Mr R managed his account without incident for 12 months, circumventing the need to 
use the registered mobile phone number, because he was able to request OTPs be sent 
to his email account. Goldman Sachs removed that facility in November 2019 and I dont 
think it was unreasonable for them to have done so. The motivation for making this 
change was not SCA-related but, it seems, stemmed from a desire to better protect 
customers. This seems to have been prompted, at least in part, by Goldman Sachs 
gaining a better understanding or awareness of how fraud was being perpetrated and a 
belief that email accounts could be more easily compromised and/or intercepted than 
mobile phone contact. Speed of contact also seems a primary concern when it comes to 
notifying customers about important account activity, such as withdrawals or updates to 
personal information. Some notifications are sent by both email and text message. But, 
without a mobile phone number as a means of contact, I can see that there may be 
delays in Mr R receiving essential security notifications relating to his account. Im 
currently satisfied Goldman Sachs has provided valid reasons for wanting to be able to 
contact Mr R by mobile phone. And his refusal to communicate via this medium 
legitimately impacts their ability to protect Mr Rs account in the way they feel is 
appropriate. 
I appreciate Mr R has been able to manage his account without using a mobile phone 
since the authentication changes were made in November 2019. When necesary, he 
calls the contact centre and the OTP is emailed once hes passed a number of security 
checks. But I dont think this means Goldman Sachs has to continue to offer this facility 
as a permanent workaround for Mr R simply because he chooses not to have a mobile 
phone. Its apparent this alternative authentication process has been put in place to help, 
occasionally, if a customer is unable to obtain an OTP via their mobile phone (for 
example, if they dont have mobile phone reception at a particular point in time). And its 
not intended to be a permanent solution, not least because the contact centre is only 
open from 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday. 
The account terms and conditions entitle Goldman Sachs to end its relationship with 
Mr R immediately in some circumstances or, otherwise, after giving two months notice. 
There are some circumstances where I might consider it unreasonable for a bank to 
close a customers account, even after giving notice. That might include if doing so would 
effectively leave the consumer unbanked  unable to get another account with another 
provider. But that would only usually apply to current accounts. Mr Rs account with 
Goldman Sachs is a savings account. And the only detriment I can really see in this case 
is that if Goldman Sachs closes this account, Mr R may be unable to find another comparable account that offers a similarly favourable rate of interest. And I dont think 
the loss of such, in and of itself, would be enough for me to conclude that the account 
had been closed unfairly.
Mr R didnt accept my provisional findings and said, in summary, that:
PERG 15.3 from the FCAs handbook says a flexible savings account  where there are 
no restrictions on the ability to make withdrawals  can be considered a payment 
account. But even if his account isnt a payment account as defined within the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (the PSRs), Goldman Sachs are a bank and a 
payment services provider. The services it provides include the transfer of funds. So 
while its arguable whether or not the PSRs and rules/guidance relating to SCA apply to 
his own account, the spirit and intention of the guidance is to stop customers being 
excluded from basic financial services products simple because they dont have access 
to a mobile phone. Goldman Sachs are using SCA and, accordingly, the SCA guidance 
and best practice should be taken into account when deciding whether Goldman Sachs 
has treated him fairly.
The website screens he saw when he opened the account do not form part of his 
contract with Goldman Sachs. The account terms and conditions did not, and do not, say 
that not having a mobile phone is a reason to close the account. One of Goldman Sachs 
employees told him, towards the end of 2019, that he could supply a friend or family 
members mobile phone number in order to keep the account open. By doing so he could 
then continue to keep the account and request OTPs via a phone call.
He did understand, when he opened the account, that he needed to provide a mobile 
phone number. But he didnt understand  because it wasnt explained  one was also 
needed to operate the account. And this wasnt the case for the first year that he held the 
account. He doesnt own, and doesnt wish to own, a mobile phone and this decision 
puts him in a minority group. It isnt fair to discriminate against any minority groups  
regardless of whether the reason for the discrimination relates to a protected 
characteristic  and the guidance published by the FCA suggests it agrees. 
Goldman Sachs says they prefer to send time-critical communications to a mobile 
phone, but there is always the possibility that a mobile phone will be turned off or have 
no signal. Money from his savings account can only be withdrawn to a single, linked 
account and the process to change that account is secure and takes several days. If 
there was a concern about his accounts security, he would expect Goldman Sachs to 
lock the account until it had been able to make contact, thereby minimising any risks 
while awaiting his reply.
He holds different types of accounts with a number of other providers and almost all of 
them provide an alternative to using a mobile phone to receive OTPs. Goldman Sachs 
are acting unfairly and contrary to the rest of the banking industry.
I inferred that it would be fair for a bank to close anybodys account for almost any 
reasons. This cannot be right.
He has found some other ombudsman decisions on our website which mirror the 
circumstances of his complaint and which were upheld.
Goldman Sachs accepted my provisional findings and said, in summary, that:They are not a payment service provider (PSP), as defined in the PSRs, so they are not 
required to comply with the SCA rules or the related FCA guidance. As such, the 
changes made to their OTP process were not implemented in order to comply with SCA 
rules or the related FCA guidance.
They have decided to use mobile phones as a critical way to enhance their security 
measures, in order to protect their customers accounts and funds. The change made to 
the OTP process in 2019 were implemented to enhance security following the insight 
and awareness theyd gained, in the initial 18 months after the account was launched, 
about how fraud was being perpetrated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first like to say I appreciate Mr R has found it frustrating that my provisional decision 
differed from the answers he was previously given by my colleagues. I also note hes found, 
on our database, other ombudsmens decisions about cases with circumstances which, he 
thinks, closely mirror his own. My role was to review this case afresh and reach my own 
decision, having considered everything that he and Goldman Sachs had said and provided. 
Each case must be decided on its own merits and what may appear (on the face of it) to be 
a similar set of circumstances, often transpires not to be the case.
I wont repeat my provisional findings which, I believe, already address some of the points 
Mr R made in response to my provisional decision. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I would 
say that I dont consider Mr Rs account with Goldman Sachs to be a payment account. I 
note what he says about the various rules and guidance, including his references to PERG. 
But PERG also says, amongst other things, that The possibility of making payment 
transactions to a third party from an account or of benefitting from such transactions carried 
out by a third party is one of the defining features of the concept of payment account. With 
this in mind, the account in question is a savings account. The terms and conditions say 
explicitly that its a savings account and also that its not suitable for everyday use such as 
day-to-day spending or paying bills. There is no facility for Mr R to set up direct debits or 
standing orders, make card payments, or withdraw cash from the account. Nor can he make 
payments to, or receive payment from, a third party. In fact the only way he can pay money 
into, or withdraw money from, the account is via a linked account held in his name. And so 
while his account has some flexibility, in that the money is not tied in for a fixed period, I do 
think there are some restrictions on his ability to make withdrawals. 
In all the circumstances, I remain satisfied that Mr Rs account is not a payment account and 
he is not a payment service user. Nor do I consider that the authentication processes he has 
to go through to operate his account have been put in place by Goldman Sachs in order to 
comply with SCA. Accordingly, despite what Mr R has said, I dont think the related rules and 
guidance about SCA apply to his account.
Having said this, I do acknowledge that the FCAs guidance about implementing SCA makes 
clear PSPs should provide SCA solutions that work for all groups of consumer. This includes 
authentication methods that dont rely on mobile phones, in order to cater for (and not 
exclude) consumers who dont have (or dont want to use) a mobile phone. However, there 
may be PSPs who make having a mobile phone part of the account opening eligibility 
criteria. In such cases wed consider carefully the reasons why a consumer who had a 
mobile phone at the point of application couldnt then use a mobile phone subsequently to 
complete SCA. And we would likely only require a PSP to provide an alternative SCA option 
where it would be unreasonable to expect the consumer to complete SCA using a mobile. So, even if Im wrong and SCA does apply to Mr Rs account, that still wouldnt mean I must 
conclude that Goldman Sachs has treated him unfairly.
In this particular case, as Ive previously said, I think Goldman Sachs likely made clear at the 
point of account opening that a mobile phone was required to open and operate the account. 
Given this, the nature of this account and for the reasons already set out in my provisional 
decision, I remain satisfied that Goldman Sachs has not treated Mr R unfairly or 
unreasonably by saying it will close his account unless he provides a mobile phone number 
and uses it, most of the time, to operate his account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman