DRN-3149871
The complaint
Miss F complains about a fixed sum loan provided to her by Lendable Ltd (Lendable) which 
she says was unaffordable.
What happened
Lendable provided Miss F with a loan of £6000 on 1 December 2019. The loan was to be 
repaid over 59 monthly instalments of £155.64 and then a final instalment of £160.89. If Miss 
F made each payment when it was due, shed pay £9343.65 in total. The loan is still 
outstanding. 
Miss F says the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been given to her.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it not be upheld. He said 
Lendable didnt carry out proportionate checks but if it had done so it would have seen that 
the loan was affordable for Miss F. 
Miss F responded and said she didnt agree. She said that after taking into consideration her 
rent, bills and credit commitments it would leave her with very little from her wages. She 
says Lendable should have seen this and not given her the loan.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Lendable lent to Miss F the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Lendable was entering into a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of Miss Fs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This 
means that Lendable had to consider both the risk to it that Miss F wouldnt make the 
repayments under the agreement when due, and the risk to Miss F of not being able to make 
these repayments. In particular, Lendable had to consider Miss Fs ability to make 
repayments under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without 
Miss F having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
repayment she had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse effect on her financial situation.
The rules also said that  unless it was so obvious that the consumer could make the 
repayments that further checks were disproportionate  Lendable needed to take reasonable 
steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of Miss Fs current income. 
It also had to take reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable 
estimate of, Miss Fs current non-discretionary expenditure. Whilst it is down to the lender to 
decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be reasonable and 
proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of the term, the 
frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments for an 
extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Fs case, Ive considered the 
following questions:
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss 
Fs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did Lendable make a fair lending decision?
As set out above, Lendable gathered some information from Miss F about her income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit check.
Did Lendable carry out proportionate checks?
Ive seen how Lendable assessed Miss Fs application for a loan. It says it used an online 
verification tool to look at the flow of money coming in and out of her account. It says it also 
carried out a credit check. It says it could see that on this occasion the loan was affordable 
for Miss F. But Im not satisfied that by using this credit tool and carrying out a credit check, 
with the information it gathered that it went far enough. I say this because the loan was for a 
significant sum of money for Miss F and was to be repaid over a relatively long term of 5 
years. Lendable could also see that Miss F had existing credit commitments and was using 
her overdraft facility. I think it ought to have wanted to find out more in particular, about Miss 
Fs average monthly income and also her expenditure and consider what disposable income 
she would have held at that time.
For the above reason, I consider Lendables checks should have included a more detailed 
review of Miss Fs financial circumstances, including asking her more about her income and 
expenditure so it could ensure that the loan repayments were affordable. So, I dont think the 
checks it carried out were proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
I need to think about what Lendable would have seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks. Our adjudicator asked Miss F to provide her bank statements from around the time 
she applied for the loan. Im not suggesting here that this is the check that Lendable should 
have done. But I think looking at her bank statements would give me the best picture of what 
the lender should have seen.I have looked through the bank statements. When I look at Miss Fs expenditure in relation to 
her income on these statements, I agree with our investigator, that it looks like she had 
enough disposable income each month to afford the loan repayments.
I think reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown Lendable, that Miss F would 
have been able to repay the loan repayments in a sustainable way. I have based this 
conclusion on what I have seen in Miss Fs bank statements and also taking into 
consideration the payslips provided. 
In conclusion, I do not think Lendable carried out proportionate checks when it agreed to 
lend to Miss F. But based on what I have in front of me, I dont think the loan repayments 
were unaffordable for her at the time she was granted the loan. So, I think further checks 
wouldnt have shown that Lendable lent irresponsibly to Miss F.
I know this will be a disappointing for Miss F and Im sorry it is not the outcome she was 
looking for. But for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I am not upholding Miss Fs complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman