DRN-1964419
The complaint
Mr S says Gain Credit LLC irresponsibly lent to him. Mr S says Gain Credit LLC should have 
known the lending was unaffordable for him. He had to borrow more because of it and got 
into a cycle of debt. He suffered financial hardship as a result. 
What happened
This complaint is about eight instalment loans Gain Credit provided to Mr S between June 
2014 and June 2018. There were two chains of lending. Mr Ss borrowing history is as 
follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidAmount Repayment
1 02/06/2014 30/06/2014 £400.00 £157.33
2 14/06/2014 30/06/2014 £140.00 £55.07
3 05/09/2014 27/02/2015 £720.00 £240.00
4 22/01/2015 30/04/2015 £400.00 £133.33
5 10/02/2015 31/07/2015 £130.00 £40.70
6 02/06/2015 08/10/2015 £680.00 £222.39
Breaking in lending
7 17/09/2017 29/03/2018 £1,250.00 £416.67
8 24/06/2018 17/07/2019 £600.00 £200.00
When Mr S complained to Gain Credit, it agreed to uphold loan two. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint and thought that as well as loan two being 
upheld, loans four to six should also be upheld. This is because proportionate checks would 
have shown Mr S had two outstanding county court judgments recorded against him.
We didnt hear back from Gain Credit so as the complaint remains unresolved it has been 
passed to me for decision in my role as ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Gain Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Gain Credit should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Gain Credit was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr S didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one, three, seven and eight 
shouldnt be upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about 
these loans. So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of 
the borrowing relationship Mr S had with Gain Credit. So, it is something I will take into 
account when considering the other loans he took. And as Gain Credit has already agreed to 
uphold loan two, I wont be making any finding on that loan. That only leaves me the lending 
about loans four to six to decide. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
First, I should say I agree there were two chains in lending. There was a significant enough 
time gap between loans six and seven for it to have been reasonable for Gain Credit to have 
considered that whatever the financial circumstances that had caused Mr S to take the 
earlier lending had been resolved. A break in a chain of lending in effect, starts the clock 
ticking again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry 
out when taking into account the length of the borrowing relationship with a consumer. 
Gain Credit has explained the information it gathered before it agreed to lend to Mr S and 
this included detail of Mr Ss income and expenditure. Mr S earned between £1,800 and £4,000 per month. Mr S confirmed his expenses were between £300 and £599 per month 
and Gain Credit would adjust this figure upwards if it thought it necessary. So, on a pounds 
and pence basis the lending would seem affordable. 
But, and like the adjudicator, I think that if proportionate checks had been carried out for loan 
four, Gain Credit would have seen that Mr S had two outstanding County Court Judgments 
against him. And the amount outstanding was just over £3,800. So, I think it was clear that 
Mr S was having problems managing his money and it was unlikely he would have 
sustainably been able to make the loan repayments on loan four, and loans five and six. I 
dont think it was reasonable for Gain Credit to have agreed to lend these loans to Mr S.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Gain Credits lending history with Mr S, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Gain Credit should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Gain Credit should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
At this point Gain Credit ought to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr S had taken out six loans within 12 months. So, Gain Credit 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr S was having to borrow further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and Mr Ss 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ss first loan was for £400 and loan loan six was for £680.  At this point Gain 
Credit ought to have known that Mr S was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
I think that Mr S lost out because Gain Credit continued to provide borrowing at loan six 
because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans which Mr S borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
For loans seven and eight, as Im satisfied that this was a new chain in lending, I wouldnt 
have expected to Gain Credit to have carried out checks similar to those I would have 
expected to see for loan four. So, I dont think there was anything in the information that 
Gain Credit did gather that would have caused it either to seek further information or 
reconsider lending to Mr S at loans seven and eight. I think it was reasonable for Gain Credit 
to have given these two loans. 
In conclusion, as well as loan two, which has already been agreed with Gain Credit, Im 
upholding the complaint about loans four to six and Gain Credit should put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on two and four to six;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;remove any negative information about loans two, four and five from Mr Ss credit 
file;
the number of loans taken at loan six means any information recorded about this loan 
is adverse. So, all entries about loan six should be removed from Mr Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit to take off tax from this interest. Gain Credit 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman