DRN-2831641
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service received from C.C. Flint and Company Limited (Flint) when 
his home insurance was due for renewal.
What happened
Mr M had home insurance which was taken out via Flint as a broker and his policy was due
for renewal in January 2020.
Mr M contacted Flint in mid-December to ask what his renewal quote would be for that year.
Flint checked some details and said theyd let Mr M know the quote shortly. Mr M raised his
concerns how close it was to the renewal date.
Flint provided the renewal quote around 11 days before the renewal was due. But this also
included a term which said Mr M needed to upgrade his alarm system within 30 days. Mr M
was unhappy this was a requirement, and that the price had also increased from the year
before. He also said he was unhappy with how close it was to the renewal date and the
amount of time it left for him to find potential alternative cover.
Two days before the renewal date, Flint said they were still discussing the alarm system with
the insurer. Mr M remained unhappy that this was so close to his renewal and questioned if
he was still going to be insured. Flint confirmed he was, and theyd discuss again in early
January.
After the New Year period, Flint spoke with Mr M to obtain further details so they could
provide this to the insurer. They also tried to source alternative cover at a cheaper price.
Ultimately at the end of January, Flint confirmed they were unable to obtain a cheaper price,
or to get the current insurer to accept Mr Ms alarm. Mr M said that he didnt want the policy
and Flint said theyd arrange cancellation.
But Flint asked Mr M to pay the pro-rata amount of £236.30 for the period he was on cover.
Mr M didnt think that was fair as he said that Flint didnt let him know about the renewal until
too late.
As Mr M was unhappy with the service received from Flint he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and partly upheld the complaint. She said the service
provided couldve been better. She said the renewal quote was provided less than two
weeks before the renewal was due, and she thought it shouldve been provided earlier. So
she recommended £50 compensation be given for the service received.
But she thought the time on risk charge was fair. She said there would always have been a
risk that Flint wouldve been unable to obtain a cheaper quote, and Mr M was on notice of
this, but didnt look for alternative cover at that time. She said that Mr M benefitted from the
cover after the renewal date, and the terms outlined that time on risk would be charged and
despite there being an applicable cancellation fee, this wasnt being charged by Flint.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my findings, before I made my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision as Im minded to reach a different outcome to our
investigator. So I wanted to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
findings, before I reach my final decision.
The renewal process and timeline
Mr Ms policy was due for renewal on 2 January 2020. On 18 December 2019 Mr M
contacted Flint to ask what his renewal quote would be for that year as he hadnt 
heard anything.
Flint said it had the details through from the insurer but wanted to check all the 
information was up to date so they could get the best price. Mr M updated some 
details around his security and alarm. He also mentioned there was a possibility of 
reducing the sums insured but didnt have the details to hand, so he asked for the 
best possible quote based on existing sums insured. Flint said theyd try and get this 
processed by the end of the week but it might be the week after. Mr M raised his 
concerns about this due to the proximity to his renewal date, but Flint said the insurer 
was late in sending through quotes.
Whilst Flints adviser said they were late in getting the information through from the 
insurer, the information provided by Flint shows that they actually had this from 
4 December 2019, some two weeks before Mr M contacted them. Flint said brokers 
reviewed the renewal and it was ready to be relayed to Mr M just before he contacted 
Flint.
Im unsure why Mr M wasnt contacted sooner than when he contacted Flint, if they 
had the information already for around two weeks before that. And Flint wouldve 
needed to check if anything had changed at the renewal. Flint hasnt said what it 
needed to do between those two periods.
But as Mr M wasnt contacted until two weeks later to check the details, and his 
renewal was over the Christmas and New Year period, this likely wouldve caused 
timing issues if there were further changes needed to the policy. And although Mr M 
would always have needed to notify Flint of the change of alarm type, if Flint had 
contacted him sooner, this would have allowed more time before the renewal date for 
Flint to make any changes and approach the insurer if needed. So it does seem there 
was a slight delay here which couldve been at least partly avoided.After this call, Flint sent a quote for renewal through by email on 20 December 2019. 
The quote said that Mr M needed to upgrade his alarm system within 30 days. Mr M 
was unhappy with this requirement as he felt his property was more secure. Mr M 
also questioned the price increase and asked Flint to find him a cheaper policy.
Mr M was emailed on 24 December 2019 to say that Flint were revisiting things to 
see if all bases had been explored, and they were also seeking buildings only cover. 
Flint said they would be doing everything they could to reduce the premium payable.
In the late afternoon on 30 December 2019 Flint emailed Mr M to say that they 
werent able to improve on the price of the policy. Theyd also had indicative rates for 
buildings only cover which werent competitive. But theyd pushed back on the 
current underwriter and alarm upgrade condition. And they suggested the policy be 
renewed whilst they were doing this, and mentioned the overall charges applicable if 
it was later lapsed.
On 31 December, the day before the current policy expired, Flint discussed what had
happened to date around the renewal process and let Mr M know they were still in
discussion with the insurer over the alarm condition. Flint confirmed hed still be 
insured and they would speak again in the new year.
Ill comment below separately on what impact I think this sequence of events leading 
up to the renewal date had.
After the renewal date, Flint contacted Mr M on 8 January 2020 to ask about his 
travel abroad, so they could further engage with the insurer about the upgrading 
alarm within 30 days condition. Mr M provided additional information and Flint said 
theyd go back to the insurer. They also said they were drawing blanks so far in trying 
source alternative cheaper cover.
On 23 January 2020 Flint called Mr M to let him know they were still looking to get 
matters resolved around the alarm requirements. Flint said the insurer was still 
pushing back at that point and it might be beneficial for Mr M to start exploring 
options elsewhere. And Flint also said theyd look at Buildings only cover, but there 
would be limited options for this.
On 30 January 2020, Flint contacted Mr M to say theyd drawn a blank. They could 
only obtain a quote for one building only insurer, but they still required an upgraded 
alarm system. And the only other policy they could obtain was the current insurer, 
and despite challenging it, they would still require an upgraded alarm by 1 February 
2020. So it was at this point Mr M knew for certain that Flint couldnt source another 
cheaper policy, and the upgraded alarm requirement couldnt be changed. Whilst 
Flint had indicated this before, this was when it was confirmed for certain that this 
was Mr Ms only option.
On this basis Mr M said he didnt want that policy. Flint confirmed theyd cancel it and 
Mr M would only be charged time on risk based on the new policy. Mr M questioned 
this as he thought he shouldnt be charged anything, and not at the revised premium. 
Ill comment on the policy being renewed rather than extended and how clear it was 
separately further below.So from the above timeline of events, Flint was liaising with Mr M and the insurer 
(and looking at alternatives) both before and after the renewal date. And it wasnt 
until 31 January 2020, nearly a month after the renewal date, that Flint confirmed the 
final position and it was then that Mr M confirmed he didnt want to continue. So I 
need to consider what, if any, impact this sequence of events had on Mr M and 
whether its then fair that hes being charged for time on risk.
Was the renewing of the new policy clear
When Mr M said he didnt want the policy with the alarm condition, Flint explained the 
policy had been renewed for 12 months at the renewal date on 2 January 2020, and 
the time on risk charge would be based on that new policy. Mr M said he thought 
Flint had extended the old cover. Mr M was unhappy that a new policy had been 
arranged, based on a premium (and alarm requirements) he hadnt agreed with, and 
he was being charged time on risk based on the new policy.
Having listened to the calls, on 31 December when Mr M queried if hed still be 
insured whilst Flint was proposing searching for a new cheaper policy and 
negotiating the alarm condition, Flint confirmed he would. During this call it wasnt 
made expressly clear to Mr M that a new 12 month policy would be set up, rather 
than extending the existing one. From this call I can see why Mr M was under the 
impression that the existing policy was continuing.
The email Flint sent just before this call also wasnt entirely clear. It did outline that at 
the current time it was going to renew and that he would have 30 days in order to 
have the alarm upgraded, and it also said what would happen if Mr M decided to 
lapse the policy.
Based on the information provided in both the email and call, I think Flint could have 
been clearer what was happening as I dont think this would have been entirely clear 
to Mr M.
But I do also need to consider what wouldve happened if it had been made clear to 
Mr M that a new 12 month policy was being arranged, rather than extending the 
existing one.
Mr M has said that due to the value of his sum insured for the buildings and contents, 
and the fact that hed had a theft claim, he found difficulties in obtaining off the shelf 
cover, such as via online aggregators. Mr M says he needed to approach insurers or 
brokers directly. Hed had a basic quote from another insurer, but when he made 
them aware of the property value and sums insured, they suggested it might not be 
suitable and he would need a more specialist policy. Given the sums insured, and 
claim history, I accept what Mr M has said about the difficulties in finding a policy.
So with this in mind, given the proximity to the renewal date, even if Flint had said to 
Mr M on 31 December 2019 that the only option would be to set up a new 12 month 
policy, rather than extending the existing one, then I still think this wouldve 
happened. I say this as the only other option to this would be being uninsured, as it 
wouldve taken time for Mr M to find his own alternative cover as Ive commented on 
above. So I think its most likely that Mr M wouldve wanted to remain insured. The 
difference here being that he wouldve been aware exactly what was happening.
But Ive also considered below whether its likely it would always have needed to 
have been renewed if the renewal process had gone differently, and consequently 
whether its then fair for Mr M to be charged time on risk for that period.The impact of the renewal process and the time on risk charge
I think Mr M would always have been in a position of having to renew the policy whilst
sourcing an alternative, even if the renewal process went differently (and earlier). But 
Im not minded to conclude that its fair that Mr M be charged the time on risk charge. 
I appreciate this is likely being charged by the insurer, rather than Flint. But I think 
Flint is responsible for that charge being incurred, and Ill explain why.
As Ive mentioned above, its clear that Flint had some information from the insurer 
about renewal on 4 December. Given Flint wouldve needed to check details, as they 
did on 18 December 2019, its unclear why that wasnt communicated either at the 
time or earlier than when Mr M contacted Flint two weeks later. And although Mr M 
would always have needed to notify Flint of the change of alarm type, if Flint had 
contacted him sooner to ask if there were any changes, this would have allowed 
more time before the renewal date for Flint to approach the insurer.
From the timeline of events I outlined, it does seem that some of the activity by Flint 
acting as a broker in trying to source alternative policies, and challenging the alarm 
condition, happened after the renewal had taken place. And from what Ive seen, this 
was on the basis that it was so close to renewal, and the Christmas/New Year period, 
that Flint first presented the renewal options to Mr M.
If Flint had presented this sooner, then its likely the final position of no cheaper 
options and no changes on the alarm upgrade conditions would have been reached 
sooner overall. Instead this wasnt until 31 January that this was confirmed. And it 
wasnt suggested this would be the most likely position to Mr M, or suggested to him 
to source alternative cover, until 23 January. So if the renewal quote had been 
presented sooner then I think, on balance, everything that happened post renewal 
date most likely wouldve happened sooner too.
Looking at how long it took to try and negotiate things throughout January as if it did 
happen earlier (i.e. earlier in December) then that would still have taken Mr M up to, 
at the earliest, the end of December for the final position to be reached of no cheaper 
policies and the alarm condition. Mr M would still then not have wanted the policy due 
to both price and alarm conditions, and would have wanted to find alternative cover. 
But given the difficulties in sourcing alternative cover, it still wouldve taken some 
time for Mr M to arrange this  and potentially beyond the renewal date.
And Ive explained above why I think Mr M wouldve always renewed that newer 
policy, even if this had been made clear by Flint, whilst he was looking for an 
alternative. So in my view, I think it likely that there would always have been a period 
of time on risk on the new policy post renewal even if things had gone differently, and 
earlier.
However, the cancellation terms outlined in Flints email of 30 December say that if 
the cancellation takes place within the first 14 days, then no charge will be applied. 
The policy terms for the new policy also say the same. And its only after the first 14 
days a pro-rata charge would be made. So even though I think Mr M wouldve been 
on cover post renewal date on the renewed policy whilst finding an alternative policy, 
I think that if Flint had acted on the renewal sooner, then on balance its likely the 
sequence of events wouldve been earlier too - and likely concluded within that 14 
day cooling off period.So on balance, I think Flints handling of the renewal and subsequent 
correspondence with the insurer put Mr M beyond that 14 day period which 
consequently resulted in a time on risk charge being applied.
Based on this, and unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, Im minded to conclude that Flint should cover the time on risk 
charge which has only been incurred because it went beyond 14 days of the renewal 
date, rather than passing it on to Mr M.
Flint already waived their own cancellation fee, and I still think thats reasonable even 
with Flint covering the time on risk charge too.
Our investigator thought £50 compensation would be fair based on the service 
received. Although Ive provisionally reached a different outcome on the time on risk 
charge, Im still minded to conclude that in addition to Flint covering that (and waiving 
the cancellation charge), that they should also pay Mr M £50 as suggested by our 
investigator.
So I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Flint to cover the time on risk charge 
and pay Mr M £50 compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr M responded to my provisional decision reiterating he was unhappy with the service hed 
received from Flint, but didnt have any further comments to add in response to my 
provisional findings.
Flint responded to my provisional decision. They said Mr M had only said he was unhappy 
with the service Flint had provided 12 months after the policy had ended. Before that, they 
say he was unhappy with the insurer rather than them.
They also commented on the alarm being changed during the policy year, and without 
consulting Flint prior to 18 December 2019, this then gave them limited time to find another 
insurer.
Flint says they had regular contact with Mr M prior to the renewal when attempting to source 
alternatives. They said Mr M wished for a standard policy which in their opinion wouldnt 
have sufficiently covered him. And they say Mr M agreed to the terms on which they 
extended the cover with the current insurer. And when he was told about the time on risk 
charge, he was unhappy with the insurer.
In summary Flint said they dont think the delay was all of their doing, and it was because 
Mr M didnt notify them of the alarm change sooner. They said they think the investigator 
reached a fairer outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, and I 
havent changed my mind.Firstly I should say that I dont agree with Flint when they say Mr M only said he was 
unhappy with their service 12 months after the policy had ended. Its clear from the calls, and 
emails, that Mr M raised his concerns around Flints handling of the renewal from the contact 
in December 2019 as it was so close to his renewal date.
I acknowledge Flints comments that they think Mr M not making them aware of the change 
of alarm prior to 18 December 2019 meant they had less time to find another insurer. But as 
I outlined in my provisional decision, Flint didnt contact Mr M about his renewal until 18 
December (after he contacted them). And it had renewal information from 4 December. So 
Mr M might not have told Flint earlier than this date, but likewise, Flint didnt contact Mr M 
prior to this date either, when it had renewal information, and was aware the festive period 
was approaching which wouldve impacted on timescales.
Flint say they were in regular contact with Mr M about the renewal. Ive commented on these 
calls in my provisional decision. And Flint say Mr M agreed to the extension terms. But Ive 
also commented on this in my provisional decision, and I dont think it was made entirely 
clear to Mr M. But I also explained why, even if it was, I dont think that wouldve changed 
anything.
Flint hasnt provided anything in response which has changed my view on if Flint had acted 
on the renewal sooner, then the events which occurred wouldve happened sooner too. And 
on balance, for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, whilst Mr M wouldve most 
likely been on cover beyond the renewal date, I think it likely it wouldnt have gone beyond 
the 14 day cooling off period. Therefore, Mr M wouldnt have been charged the time on risk 
charge, which was only applicable beyond that timescale. So I think on balance, Flint is still 
responsible for that, for the reasons outlined above and in my provisional decision.
As my view on this still remains the same, it also remains the same on waiving the 
cancellation fee and compensation of £50 I was minded to direct Flint to pay.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold the complaint and direct C.C. Flint and Company Limited 
to:
Cover the time on risk charge of £236.30
Pay Mr M £50 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman