DRN-2981351
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy how Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) dealt with the 
settlement of a hire purchase agreement he had with them, after the car had been stolen.
What happened
In December 2017, Mr D was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MBFS. The agreement was for £22,685.37 over 49 months; with 48 monthly payments 
of £320 and an optional final payment of £10,550 if Mr D wanted to keep the car. 
On 1 June 2020, Mr Ds house was broken into and the car was stolen. And Mr D says the 
police who attended told him that the car should have a tracker fitted. Mr D informed both his 
insurance company and MBFS of the theft, and he asked MBFS to provide him with a 
settlement figure which was needed for his insurance claim. MBFS did this, and the claim 
was settled, with the agreement being repaid, by 17 June 2020.
Mr D complained to MBFS that he had difficulties contacting them  he says he was on hold 
for over an hour  but his insurance company answered his call straight away. He also 
complained that the car was supplied without a tracking device being fitted.
Mr D was also unhappy that, when he made his complaint, he was passed around different 
departments, and he had difficulties getting phone calls and emails from MBFS. And, when 
he put in a Subject Access Request (SAR) under Data Protection legislation, MBFS didnt 
respond to this within the allowed timeframe.
Mr D brought his complaint to us for consideration. Our investigator said that MBFS were 
affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, and this had an impact on their normal 
operations. He also said that it took 17 days from Mr D telling MBFS that the car had been 
stolen, to the settlement of the finance agreement. So, while he understood that this was 
frustrating for Mr D, he didnt think MBFS needed to take any further action.
The investigator said there was no evidence the car shouldve been supplied with a tracking 
device, or that Mr D was told it was. He also said that there was no legal requirement for the 
car to be supplied with a tracking device. So, he didnt think Mr D had been misled when the 
car was supplied to him.
Finally, the investigator said that MBFS hadnt responded to the SAR within the timescale 
allowed. And this was due to an error. But, because the SAR had been responded to, he 
didnt think MBFS needed to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think it was acceptable that MBFS took too 
long to respond to the SAR. And he also wasnt happy that the investigator didnt listen to all 
the calls he had with MBFS. So, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Before I address the issues Mr Ds raised, I think it would be useful for me to explain the 
scope of my decision. Im only able to consider any regulated activities carried out by MBFS. 
And complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. So, while Mr D is unhappy with how MBFS 
dealt with his complaint, this isnt something Ill be looking at. And this means Ill only be 
considering any calls relating to his request for a settlement figure and the SAR.
Mr D was unhappy with the difficulties he had when trying to contact MBFS. He was kept on 
hold longer than he wouldve expected and emails werent responded to promptly. Hes also 
compared the service he received from MBFS with the service he received from his 
insurance company when he contacted them to make the claim.
The Covid-19 pandemic was an unprecedented situation. Government advice was for people 
to work from home where possible, and financial businesses wouldve needed to adapt their 
ways of working. And this came at a time when, for the same reasons, financial businesses 
experienced a large increase in customer contacts. 
So, while I appreciate how frustrating this was for Mr D trying to get through to MBFS, I dont 
think they did anything wrong because they were receiving a very high volume of customer 
contact at a time when their normal operations were disrupted due to circumstances outside 
of their control. 
And I cant say they did anything wrong just because another financial business, in this case 
Mr Ds insurance company, didnt find their normal operations similarly affected. Ive seen 
that, in their complaint response letter, MBFS apologised to Mr D for the difficulties hed 
experienced. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances, and I wont be asking MBFS 
to do anything more.
Ive seen the invoice for the car that was supplied to Mr D. And this doesnt refer to a tracker 
being fitted to the car. And, having checked the specifications for the car Mr D was supplied 
with, Ive not seen anything that shows me that a tracker shouldve been fitted as standard. I 
also havent seen any other evidence that shows me that Mr D asked for a tracker to be 
fitted to the car, or that he was told this was going to be the case. So, while I appreciate that 
Mr D says the police told him the car shouldve been fitted with a tracker, this isnt something 
I can agree with. And I dont think MBFS did anything wrong.
Turning now to the SAR, Mr D requested this on 16 June 2020. And MBFS didnt respond to 
this until 24 July 2020. In an email dated 23 July 2020, MBFS told Mr D that, due to an 
internal error, although the information was collated, this was sent to the incorrect area, and 
no further action was taken, which is why you did not receive anything. MBFS apologised 
for this, and confirmed this had been logged with their Data Compliance Team. In a follow up email, MBFS also told Mr D that, of he was unhappy with how the SAR had 
been dealt with, this was something he could raise with the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO).
 
According to the ICO website, theyd expect a SAR to be dealt with as quickly as possible, 
and no later than 30 calendar days from when the request was received. Mr D made the 
request on 16 June 2020, and MBFS acknowledged this the same day. So, the SAR 
shouldve been dealt with by 16 July 2020. But MBFS didnt complete this until 24 July 2020 
 8 days after they shouldve done.
As MBFS explained in their email to Mr D, this is a matter for the ICO. But, when a SAR 
hasnt been dealt with as it should have, Id expect MBFS to acknowledge this, advise Mr D 
when it would be dealt with, apologise, and arrange for this to be reported as a breach of 
data compliance. And, from their email of 23 July 2020, Ive seen that MBFS have done this.
So, while I appreciate this was a very stressful time for Mr D, Ive seen that this matter was 
resolved in less than three weeks from when it was reported to MBFS. MBFS acknowledged 
they couldve done better and, given the circumstances, Im satisfied that the apologies they 
provided were sufficient. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman