DRN-2749291
The complaint
Mr D complains that AJ Bell Securities Limited, trading as AJ Bell Youinvest, failed to carry 
out his ISA transfer instructions promptly, something which caused a considerable loss.
What happened
An investigator at this service did not feel there was sufficient evidence to fairly conclude that 
AJ Bell had done anything wrong. In his summary of Mr Ds complaint, he said:
On 6 March 2020 Mr D submitted two ISA transfer requests via AJ Bells online portal 
in order to initiate transfers from Castle Trust Capital Management Limited
These transfers did not go through AJ Bells electronic transfer due to a technical 
error. AJ Bell said that when this happens consumers are automatically prompted on-
screen to complete and return the ISA transfer forms by post
Mr D said that he completed the forms and returned them but AJ Bell said it did not 
receive them
Hed seen no material evidence that these had been sent or that AJ Bell had 
received them so he couldnt be satisfied that the forms were correctly addressed or 
returned
After Mr D contacted AJ Bell in April, it immediately attached the two ISA forms in an 
email for him to complete and return
He acknowledged that Mr D said the online portal was showing the transfers as 
awaiting funds and that he was under the impression the transfers were done given 
he did not receive any notifications regarding them. But he still felt Mr D should have 
enquired about the underlying issue far sooner given his previous experience
AJ Bell confirmed that Mr D had gone through a similar process in February 2019, 
being sent a confirmation letter in the days following his transfer request. So when 
this did not happen in March he ought to have chased things up
Finally, he felt the transfer had then gone ahead in a reasonable period of time, 
particularly given the confusion over the two account numbers
Mr D did not agree, saying:
AJ Bell claimed that customers are automatically prompted to complete and return 
ISA transfer forms by post if there is a technical error. This never happened and at no 
point was he informed there was a technical error until he contacted AJ Bell
When the transfer forms were originally sent, the portal showed that the transfer was 
in progress but AJ Bell claimed never to have received the forms. How can it be valid 
that the portal is showing the transfer was in progress if they don't have the forms?
He didn't call them because the tracker was saying completed and awaiting funds.
It says that you should be able to see the status of the transfer once they have 
received the forms 
The investigator replied, saying that the process is such that if the online form is not 
successfully completed it prompts the customer to the form and asks for it to be completed 
and posted. He said he had seen a screenshot of this and was satisfied that Mr D was left 
with an option to send in the form.
He acknowledged that Mr D maintained he did send in the form but in the absence of any 
firm evidence he couldnt fairly conclude that AJ Bell had received any forms. He added that 
AJ Bell said that the tracker would've said awaiting transfer forms but it was unfortunate 
that it could not provide a screenshot of this as such information is only held for 30 days.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
Ultimately, this complaint centres on whether there is sufficient evidence to safely conclude 
that AJ Bell received the transfer forms and, for whatever reason, failed to process them.
I cannot be sure whether Mr D sent them, correctly addressed, to AJ Bell; nor can I say 
whether it received them in the absence of any postal tracking information. That is not to say 
I dispute Mr Ds evidence, knowing that businesses do on occasions mislay documents. But 
in this case there is simply not sufficient persuasive evidence  such as written records or 
paperwork  to fairly reach such a conclusion. I do not know what went astray. In these 
circumstances I cannot reasonable conclude that AJ Bell did something wrong.
I recognise that Mr D, the investigator and AJ Bell disagree about what information was and 
wasnt displayed on its portal but, again, I have no means of assessing these issues given 
the lack of concrete evidence.
Overall, I share the investigators assessment, including of the other issues such as the time 
taken to eventually process the transfer.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman