DRN-4337386
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the administration of her Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc 
credit card.
What happened
Mrs H holds a credit card with M&S.
 
On 8 February 2023, she contacted M&S to ask that it refund part of a recent manual 
payment shed made. Mrs H had mistakenly paid £1,500 towards her credit card, and she 
asked for £1,000 of it to be sent back to her bank account. There was some confusion during 
the call, and Mrs H ultimately ended up asking that the full £1,500 be returned to her.
 
Unfortunately, though, given the general confusion, the advisor Mrs H spoke with 
misunderstood her request. So, instead, M&S refunded £1,928  which was an entirely 
separate amount, recently returned to Mrs Hs credit card by a third-party retailer.
 
Shortly after, on 10 February, Mrs H contacted M&S again. During this call, she asked for 
another amount, £963.51, which was her in-credit balance at the time of the call, to be 
returned to her bank account. That request was duly processed by M&S.
 
On 13 February, Mrs H contacted M&S a third time. Shed now realised that £1,500 hadnt 
been returned to her bank account as shed requested. M&S processed her request for a 
£1,500 refund correctly after this third call.
 
Mrs H complained about what had happened and, in response, M&S explained that it had 
now processed all refunds. It also clarified that when customers request refunds from their 
credit card account, the balance would be amended. Finally, M&S apologised for getting 
some things wrong; it said it had added a credit of £30 to Mrs Hs credit card account, in 
recognition of the inconvenience it had caused.
 
Mrs H wasnt happy with the response from M&S. Specifically, she didnt think it had worked 
out her credit card balance correctly after the refund of £963.51. So, she brought her 
complaint to this Service.
 
An Investigator here looked at what had happened and, overall, he said he couldnt see that 
M&S had done something wrong. In summary, the Investigator said:
Mrs H had confirmed that the money, £963.51, had indeed been sent back to her 
bank account.
From reviewing the February 2023 statement, credits and debits to Mrs Hs account 
seemed to be recorded accurately  including the refund of £963.51.
Its clear there had been some confusion, but M&S had accepted things hadnt gone 
as well as they could have, and it had paid Mrs H some appropriate compensation. 
Mrs H disagreed, she maintained that M&S hadnt correctly adjusted her overall balance 
after the refund of £963.51. So, as no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will disappoint Mrs H, I have to say that I cant see M&S 
has made a mistake here. So, it follows that I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
 
As I understand it, the crux of the matter is that Mrs H doesnt think M&S correctly worked 
out her credit card balance after it processed the refund of £963.51. So, thats what Ive 
focussed on in this decision.
Its quite possible that theres been some confusion caused by numerous credits and debits. 
Thats understandable, particularly given Mrs H was continuing to spend on her credit card 
at the same time as several refund requests were being processed.
 
Ive looked at what happened in February 2023. Early in the month, certain credits  like 
some manual payments made by Mrs H, and a large refund from a third-party retailer to her 
account  caused a credit balance on Mrs Hs credit card account. 
When Mrs H called on 10 February, she was told her balance was £963.51 in credit. She 
asked for that amount to be sent to her, a perfectly reasonable request, and Im satisfied that 
it was. The credit card statements show me a refund for that amount was processed on 
13 February, and indeed Mrs H has confirmed that she did receive the money. 
Although it isnt for this Service to perform an actuarial role; I have broadly reviewed the 
credit card statements which have been provided. From what Ive seen, £963.51 was 
returned at Mrs Hs request and, around the same time, she also made some purchases. 
Mrs H has said £963.51 wasnt correctly deducted from her credit card balance  but Ive 
followed the transactions, both credit and debit, and the end balance shown doesnt seem to 
me to be incorrect. Instead, credits and debits appear to have been applied correctly to 
Mrs Hs credit card account. 
I know how strongly Mrs H feels about this matter. So, if she still maintains that something 
isnt right, she can instruct another appropriate party to review her statements and take 
things further  if she wishes to do so. But in my view, based on the information I have, Im 
not persuaded that M&S has made a mistake here. It follows that I cant reasonably 
conclude that M&S did something wrong in this regard. 
Aside from that point, its true to say that M&S didnt handle some aspects of its interaction 
with Mrs H particularly well. Its acknowledged that, and Ive seen that M&S paid Mrs H £30 
compensation for the inconvenience she experienced. Overall, in the circumstances, I think 
thats a reasonable way to recognise the trouble she was caused over a short period of time 
here. 
In closing, I know this isnt the answer Mrs H is hoping for and I am sorry to disappoint her. 
Im also sorry to hear of the other matters shes described, and I know its been a difficult 
time for her recently. So, may I take this opportunity to wish her and her family all the very 
best. 
For the reasons Ive explained, though, based on what Ive seen, I cant fairly conclude that 
M&S did incorrectly administer her credit card. So, I dont require it to take any further action.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman