DRN-3665641
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Zurich Insurance Plc has made an unfair claims decision following a 
claim made on her landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Although Mrs Ms policy is underwritten by Zurich, the policy is sold under a different brand 
(Company A). But for ease of reference throughout, Ill refer to Zurich only, even if some 
interactions might have been had with Company A instead. 
The details of this claim are known to both parties, so Ive not set them out in any great detail 
below, but in summary:
In September 2021, Mrs M raised a claim on her policy for an escape of water noticed under 
the bath in her rental flat. In October, Zurich had a leak detection report completed which 
said Mrs M would need to have the leak fixed before the drying and reinstatement works 
could be completed. Mrs M confirmed this had been done by the end of October but the 
repairs to her flat were not completed until February 2022.
Mrs M says shes lost out because of the time it has taken for the repairs to be actioned by 
Zurich as her tenants served notice to leave the property because of the state of repair. They 
were expecting a baby and couldnt wait any longer without confirmation on when the repairs 
would be completed. As a result she says she will incur significant costs in having the 
property re-let as well as the lost income for the months the property sits vacant.
Zurich felt it could have chased up the repair works sooner. It could see that it didnt actively 
chase these throughout December. But it didnt think this would have had a substantial 
impact on the overall completion time for the works. It said because of the festive break in 
December (it was common for trades to cease work for a period of two weeks over 
Christmas and New Year) the work would still not have been completed by the end of 
December. The policy doesnt provide cover for additional costs like letting agent fees and it 
didnt think it was fair to expect it to provide this cover. But it offered £250 in compensation to 
recognise that it could have progressed the claim sooner.
Our investigator looked at Mrs Ms complaint and said that she didnt think Zurich needed to 
do anything else. She felt its offer of £250 was fair for the delays it had caused and because 
the cover doesnt extend to the costs associated with finding a new tenant if one decides to 
leave because of the impact of a claim, it wasnt fair to ask Zurich to cover this.
Mrs M doesnt disagree that the policy doesnt provide this level of cover, but she still doesnt 
believe it is fair that Zurich dont need to do more. She is reliant on the income of the 
property and she feels it is only empty because of Zurichs failings. Because shes disagreed 
with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mrs M, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs M accepts that the policy doesnt expressly provide cover for the costs she is claiming. 
Shes been provided extracts on the policy and what it covers by both our investigator and 
Zurich previously, so I wont set these out again here. But I agree that the policy doesnt 
provide this cover. The question is, would it be fair to ask that Zurich to still cover this cost.
We have emails from Mrs Ms tenants that explain why they are gave in the notice on the 
flat. They explain that theyve been waiting on the repairs for over a month and because of 
the tenant being pregnant, they cannot wait any longer. 
I can understand why Mrs M feels Zurich is at fault for the tenants feeling they needed to 
leave, but I dont think it would be fair to say that even if the works had started sooner that 
they would have been completed in less than a month. The damage noticed when the strip 
out works were completed was more extensive than originally thought and this meant the 
repair time was longer too. When there is damage with an escape of water, it isnt 
uncommon that the repairs could take some time and by their nature, they cause significant 
inconvenience. 
Here it is clear the tenants had a very pressing life event which meant they needed to know 
where they were staying and that it was safe  this is understandable and it was their right to 
terminate the contract by giving the immediate notice to do so. But I dont think Zurich can be 
blamed for this. I dont think the time it took to progress the claim was unreasonable, it 
accepts there was some delay but that the overall impact was likely small and I think this is 
true. 
Unfortunately here, Mrs Ms tenants were not able to wait and this has meant shes needed 
to readvertise the flat. But this is because of the choice made by the tenants and after an 
amount of time that was relatively short when thinking about the repairs needed.  And I dont 
think the actions of Zurich added a significant delay. Nor could it be determined that even if 
the works progressed more quickly, that the tenants wouldnt have still used their right to 
terminate the tenancy. The costs associated with the flat needing to be re-let is not a cost 
that Zurich is liable for and I dont think it needs to do anything more on this complaint. Nor 
are the costs of any lost rent when the property sits vacant after the repair work has been 
completed.
Overall, I think the £250 previously offered for distress and inconvenience of the matter is 
fair and I see no reason to ask Zurich to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Thomas BrissendenOmbudsman