DRN-2353943
The complaint
Mr Ls unhappy with the valuation of his car by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) following an 
accident.
What happened
Mr L had a motor insurance policy with Aviva.  In mid-2020, he had an accident.  There was 
enough damage to his car to make it uneconomical to repair.  So it was written off.
Aviva offered Mr L £5,000 for the car, less his excess.  Mr L rejected this as he said he 
couldnt replace his car for that amount.  Aviva reviewed the position and increased their 
offer to £5,500, less his excess.  Or, if Mr L wanted to keep the car, theyd deduct 30% from 
that valuation for their loss of salvage rights.  And they offered Mr L £75 compensation for 
initially offering a lower sum.
Mr L rejected Avivas offer and brought his complaint to us.  He told us that he couldnt 
replace his car with a similar vehicle for the amount Aviva had offered him.  And hed sent 
Aviva a number of adverts which showed this.  
Mr L thought a realistic settlement figure (based on those adverts) was £6,900.  But he said 
hed be willing to accept a settlement of £6,500 to resolve his complaint.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint.  She looked at a number of trade guides, all of 
which valued Mr Ls car at less than the amount Aviva had offered him.  So she didnt think 
they needed to do anything differently.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Ls motor insurance policy.  The relevant term says:
If your vehicle is lost, stolen, or damaged, we will:
repair your vehicle; or
pay you a cash amount equal to the loss or damage
The most we will pay is the market value of your vehicle.
Its not our role to provide a valuation; we look at whether an insurer has made its 
assessment of a vehicles market value fairly and reasonably.  We expect insurers to do this 
by looking at the major trade guides to get a valuation.  And we check this by getting 
valuations ourselves.
In this case, Ive seen valuations from several trade guides.  They vary from £3,345 to 
£4,141.  Im satisfied from this that the highest trade valuation is considerably less than the 
£5,500 Aviva offered to Mr L.  So I cant say that theyve reached their valuation unfairly.
I appreciate Mr L feels his car is worth more.  And that he provided Aviva with examples of 
adverts which he felt support that view.  But adverts show a cars asking price  not what its 
eventually sold for.  Im not persuaded by the adverts that Aviva shouldve offered Mr L more 
than they have.
And I know Mr Ls unhappy because he feels that Aviva asked him to provide adverts, but 
then didnt take them into account.  
Ive thought about this.  Mr L didnt accept Avivas valuation.  So I think it was reasonable for 
Aviva to ask Mr L for the information he based that on.  And Ive seen that Aviva did consider 
the adverts Mr L sent them.  But they noted that most of the cars advertised had recorded 
fewer miles than Mr Ls car  which is why they had a higher asking price.
Mr L thought his car should be worth more because it had had fewer owners and a full 
service history.  I understand why hed think that.  But the valuation guides place the most 
reliance on a cars mileage.  And Ive seen from Avivas notes that they told Mr L this.  So I 
cant say he didnt know what Aviva was basing its decision on.
Im satisfied that Aviva were reasonable in the way they calculated the amount they offered 
to Mr L.  And theyve treated him fairly by offering him compensation for making a lower offer 
first.  I dont think they need to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman