DRN-2496541
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has refused to refund their premium 
in relation to their travel insurance policy. They also complain about the customer service 
they received. Reference to Great Lakes includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
On 10 March 2020, Mr and Mrs A took out an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy with        
Great Lakes. The policy provided cover for up to a total of 183 days of travel with a 
maximum of 50 days in one trip. Mr and Mrs A paid a total premium of £109.48.  
  
Mr and Mrs A were due to travel in late March and again later in the year for their daughters 
wedding. Both trips were cancelled due to covid-19. I understand that Mr and Mrs A received 
full refunds from travel and accommodation providers.  
In May 2020, Mrs A contacted Great Lakes and asked it to cancel the policy and provide a 
refund of the premium. Great Lakes didnt agree to refund the premium, but it has offered a  
pro rata credit  - amounting to £85.48 - for one of the following options: 
a 15-month annual policy for the price of 12, at current market rates;
a 12 month, deferred annual policy, at current market rates, so cover could start  
within 12 months of purchasing the policy;
a  UK only, annual, multi trip policy - the destination area may be upgraded later, 
subject to the policy terms and conditions.
Great Lakes said that the first two options were available until 30 June 2020. It has since 
said that the first two options remain available but may be withdrawn at any time.     
Mr and Mrs A werent happy with Great Lakes offer and pursued their complaint. They said:
They were unable to add a travel disruption extension to their policy as they couldnt 
get through on the phone.
They couldnt use their policy because they couldnt travel.
Great Lakes offer meant that theyd have to pay more for a policy they couldnt use.
The deadline on their offer put undue pressure on them to decide quickly, which they 
thought was intentional. 
When they phoned to clarify the offer, they received poor service.
Mr and Mrs A want a refund of the full amount of the premium or a voucher that isnt        
time-limited, so that they can use it when travel is permitted.    
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The investigator 
also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started 
to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. The investigator also explained that covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started in March 2020 
and the policy covered various risks before it was cancelled.  
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of covid-19. 
He thought that Great Lakes offer of a pro rata credit for one of the three options it offered 
was a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator said Mr and Mrs As phone call to Great Lakes on 27 June 2020 could have 
been handled better but he didnt recommend compensation or an apology as he thought 
that Great Lakes was trying to answer Mr and Mrs As questions. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with the investigator. They said:
These were not normal circumstances, so standard practices arent relevant: they 
couldnt travel and had no idea when they could travel again.
Their offer was only valid for three working days, which gave them very little time and 
put pressure on them, which they thought was deliberate. 
The offer means that they would have to pay Great Lakes more with no guarantee 
that theyd be able to travel within the period of the new policy. 
They want a voucher without an expiry date that they could use when travel 
resumed. 
They are unsure about the terms of the new policy and want to make sure it has 
cover for covid-19.
Mr and Mrs A asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
Mr and Mrs A have said that they called Great Lakes to discuss the offer again and it didnt 
return their call. That wasnt part of their original complaint to Great Lakes and it hasnt had 
an opportunity to respond to it, so, I cant deal with that new matter here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant rules, regulations and law. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel this policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later. 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period, no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period, so theres no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after the cooling off period, Great Lakes isnt obliged to give a refund of 
the premium but has a discretion to do so in exceptional circumstances. Looking at 
how the policy is worded, I dont think its fair to ask Great Lakes to consider 
exercising its discretion in this case. Thats because I dont think this type of situation 
is one which the discretion in the policy terms is designed to cover  it specifically 
mentions bereavement or a change in its willingness to cover medical conditions and 
thats not what happened here. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding  
covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of a pro rata 
credit towards one of the three options Ive set out above is fair.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A would prefer a cash refund or a voucher that isnt 
time-limited, but Great Lakes isnt obliged to offer that. I think the pro rata credit  
Great Lakes has offered is a fair alternative to a cash refund in the circumstances of 
this case because Mr and Mrs A entered into an annual contract with Great Lakes 
then, for reasons I quite understand, wish to cancel the policy. The offer Great Lakes 
has made is more than its obliged to make, and it means that the risk it agreed to 
take on at the outset of Mr and Mrs As policy is potentially moved to a future date, 
should Mr and Mrs A take up the offer. 
 
Mr and Mrs A have also complained that they were unable to add a travel disruption 
extension to their policy, as they couldnt get through on the phone. I understand that 
Mr and Mrs A received refunds from their travel and accommodation providers, so 
their inability to add the extension doesnt alter the outcome here. Ive listened to the phone call about which Mr and Mrs A have complained. I think 
that Mr and Mrs A were unhappy about the offer and about going through the 
process of a quote for a new policy. I think that Great Lakes was trying to assist      
Mr and Mrs A. I agree with the investigator that, in part, the tone of the call was 
unfortunate, but I dont think that, overall, the call was such that I require Great Lakes 
to apologise or pay compensation to Mr and Mrs A. 
Great Lakes made an error in that call in that it said that the offer of a 12 month, 
deferred annual policy wasnt available to Mr and Mrs A. That wasnt what           
Great Lakes had previously said in its final response to Mr and Mrs A. I dont think 
that error was material, as Mr and Mrs A were unhappy with all options of           
Great Lakes offer. But for the avoidance of doubt, Great Lakes has offered              
Mr and Mrs A the three options Ive set out above. 
Mr and Mrs A have complained about the short time frame they were given to 
respond to the offer. Ive seen nothing to support Mr and Mrs As contention that was 
deliberate in order to put pressure on them. Great Lakes reviews its offers from time 
to time and its subsequently said that the offer remains available but may be 
withdrawn at any time. I dont think thats unreasonable.   
I appreciate that future travel plans are uncertain but, in all the circumstances, and 
bearing in mind that Great Lakes isnt obliged to offer Mr and Mrs A a refund, there 
are no grounds on which to direct Great Lakes to give Mr and Mrs A a cash refund or 
a voucher that isnt time-limited. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
If Mr and Mrs A wish to take up Great Lakes offer, they should contact it direct. 
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman