DRN-3611426
The complaint
The estate of Mrs T complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has treated her 
unfairly when pricing her buildings and contents insurance over a number of years.
What happened
The estate of Mrs T was shocked to discover how much the late Mrs T was paying for her 
home insurance. Mrs Ts insurance was provided by Lloyds from 2006 until 2020 when it 
was cancelled midterm. In 2006 the annual cost of the policy was £198.21 and by 2020, this 
had increased to £599.62 for the year.
The estate of Mrs T has said, Mrs T was not someone who had access to the internet or 
comparison sites and Mrs T relied on Lloyds to treat her fairly. They feel her loyalty has been 
taken advantage of and the price Mrs T paid was not reflective of the cost the insurance 
could be found for. 
Lloyds looked at the complaint and accepted that Mrs T was unlikely to be able to shop 
around and compare prices. It reviewed how her policy had been priced over the years and 
said that it felt the policy had been priced correctly. But Lloyds upheld the complaint based 
on the circumstances of Mrs T. It made a payment of £71.30 to the estate of Mrs T, this 
payment represented £25 for the distress and inconvenience, and a part refund of the 
premiums paid with 8% interest added.
Our investigator looked at the late Mrs Ts complaint and said he felt she was inert on the 
price of her insurance as shed never engaged with Lloyds on the price of it. He asked 
Lloyds to demonstrate that the price increases applied to Mrs Ts policy didnt indicate that 
she was treated differently or unfairly because of her inertia.
Lloyds explained why the price had changed overtime, including how it applied a discount to 
the price of the policy when it was first taken out. And it shared information about how it has 
priced the policy in more recent years, explaining how its pricing model has been applied.
Our investigator accepted that, for the most part, Lloyds had been able to explain why the 
price of Mrs Ts policy had increased because of changes to the cost that Lloyds applied to 
all customers. So the removal of new customer discounts and application of pricing models 
applied to all. But there was a point in the pricing history where he felt the price had 
increased without fair explanation and he asked Lloyds to go further with its refund. He 
recommended the following:
Lloyds to refund the difference between the price paid in 2012 (£335.26) and the 
price paid each year from then until 2014, allowing for inflation in line with the 
consumer price index (CPI).
From 2015 through until the policy was cancelled in 2020, refund any difference in 
premium where the price paid exceeded the maximum target price in place at the 
time.
To add simple interest to the refund at 8%.
Less any refund already paid.
Lloyds has accepted and offered to make the payment in line with the recommendation.
The estate of Mrs T has not accepted the outcome. They feel there is a lack of transparency 
on how the price of Mrs Ts policy was reached and are concerned that other customers like 
Mrs T have been treated unfairly like this. They believed the cost of the insurance was 
extortionate and the outcome didnt address this or go far enough.
Because the estate of Mrs T has disagreed with the outcome, the complaint has been 
passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as our investigator and feel the 
redress recommended is fair. I know the estate of Mrs T will be disappointed by this, but Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
It is clear that the estate of Mrs T is concerned about how much Mrs T was charged for her 
insurance and that she is an example of how many other vulnerable customers are likely 
treated. The focus of my decision is on the facts of the late Mrs Ts complaint, but I 
understand why the estate is concerned about this.
The estate of Mrs T has also explained that it feels Mrs T should have been paying 
considerably less for her insurance for its duration. But this belief is based on the cost of 
comparisons with other policies and this alone, doesnt indicate that Lloyds has done 
anything wrong with how it has priced the policy. Each insurer will take its own view of the 
risk and provide insurance for a cost it thinks is fair to cover this and its associated 
expenses. Comparison sites demonstrate how different each insurers price can be and no 
one price is right or wrong. So while I dont dispute that the late Mrs T could have insured 
her property for significantly less, I dont think this shows Lloyds acted unfairly or that the 
cost of comparisons should be used as a benchmark for any redress.
Our investigator has shared details about recent changes in regulation brought in by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These came into force in January 2022 as the FCA 
looked to address wider concerns about the cost of insurance and renewal pricing for 
existing customers. These rules are not retrospective but going forward, place an obligation 
on Buildings and Motor insurance providers to ensure the price offered at renewal is no more 
than the equivalent new business price. This means renewing customers should never pay 
more than new customers. 
As I say though, these rules werent in place when Mrs Ts insurance was provided by 
Lloyds. But Lloyds needed to make sure it was treating customers fairly and Ive considered 
whether I think it has been able to demonstrate this when looking at how it priced the late 
Mrs Ts policy.
The estate of Mrs T has explained why they feel she was unable to shop around easily, with 
no access to the internet to assist with this. And she felt a sense of loyalty to staying with 
Lloyds and trusted she was being treated fairly. It is clear though, regardless of the reasons, 
that Mrs T didnt engage with Lloyds on the price of her policy and renewals were accepted each year as the policy automatically renewed.  So I think it is fair to say that Mrs T was inert 
on the price of her policy.
The question is whether Lloyds treated Mrs T fairly when pricing her insurance, thinking 
about her lack of engagement and her circumstances.
Lloyds, like most insurers offered policies with new customer discounts. This is something 
that was common in the marketplace as insurers sought to attract new customers. Lloyds 
has explained to us how much discount was applied and that it recouped this overtime. This 
isnt unfair as a practice and Im satisfied that Mrs T was treated fairly when the cost of her 
policy increased to recoup the discount applied when the policy was taken out. Looking at 
her premiums, I think this would have been recouped by 2012 and so any increases in price 
after this point would not be associated to the new business discount being removed. But I 
think any increases before this have been applied fairly and Mrs T was not treated differently 
because of her lack of engagement.
For the years 2013 and 2014, Lloyds hasnt been able to provide anything to explain why the 
policy increased in price as it did. It says changes to Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) and 
inflation will have had a bearing on these costs, but it is unable to point to anything specific 
to explain the increases. In the absence of being able to provide this information, I think its 
fair that Lloyds refund anything paid in excess of the 2012 premium after allowing for any 
increase in line with CPI inflation for 2013 and 2014. Im not satisfied the price increases 
during this period demonstrate that Lloyds was treating Mrs T fairly. 
Lloyds has provided this service details on how it has priced its insurance policies from 2015 
onwards, explaining how each model it had in place at the time calculated the premium. 
These details are commercially sensitive and I cannot share the exact detail. But they apply 
the same formula to all policies and have been used to demonstrate whether Lloyds was 
treating customers fairly with a maximum target price. 
On reviewing the target price information, it is clear for some years, Mrs T paid more than 
the target price. The difference was minimal but regardless, it shows she was treated 
differently. So Im not satisfied that Lloyds has demonstrated it was treating the late Mrs T 
fairly at this point and it is right that Lloyds do something to address this. Lloyds has agreed 
to refund the difference between the target price and what Mrs T paid for these years, 
together with simple interest added. I think this is a reasonable way to put right this 
unfairness.
Putting things right
Overall, I think Lloyds has failed to demonstrate that it consistently treated the late Mrs T 
fairly and it needs to do the following to put things right.
Refund the estate of Mrs T, the difference in what was paid for the insurance in 2013 
and 2014, in excess of the 2012 price  allowing for increases in line with CPI 
inflation.
From 2015 onwards, refund to the estate of Mrs T, anything paid for the insurance in 
excess of the target price in place at the time.
Pay 8% simple interest on the refunds detailed above.
Lloyds may deduct from this total, any refund already paid.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold the late Mrs Ts complaint against Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman