DRN-3113448
The complaint
Miss B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt settled a claim under her travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which covered her between 
31 January 2020 and 30 January 2021. The insurer was Great Lakes.
Miss B travelled abroad on 1 March 2020, and she was due to return on 29 March 2020. But 
on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential 
international travel. And on 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists who were 
abroad to return to the UK because of the global pandemic.
Miss B changed her return flight to 25 March 2020 and paid £245 to amend the flight. This 
flight was cancelled by the airline. Miss B says she spoke to Great Lakes on the phone, and 
she was told shed be able to claim around £1,500 from her insurance if she had to buy 
another flight.
Miss B says she then booked the only available return flight, costing her over £7,000. She 
says she needed to get home to a vulnerable family member. Miss B made a claim to Great 
Lakes for the additional flight cost.
Great Lakes initially settled Miss Bs claim and paid her £337. When it paid this, Great Lakes 
said it was unable to consider the cost of the flight change (£245) because it was for the 
airline to refund this as it had cancelled the flight.
Miss B then disputed the settlement amount, as this didnt reflect the amount she paid for the 
additional flight. Great Lakes said it had used incorrect figures to calculate the claim. But it 
said that the decision to settle the claim had been incorrect. It said Miss Bs policy did 
provide cover for curtailment due to FCDO requiring the policyholder to return to their home 
country. But in this situation, the policy only covered unused costs  it didnt cover additional 
costs.
As Miss B was claiming for the additional flight costs, Great Lakes said these werent 
covered by the policy she held. It also noted that Miss B hadnt bought the optional Travel 
Disruption cover which wouldve provided cover for additional costs. But Great Lakes said it 
wouldnt ask Miss B to pay back the £337 it had paid in error.
Miss B wasnt happy with Great Lakes decision and brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the curtailment section of the 
policy only covered unused costs in Miss Bs situation. The optional Travel Disruption cover 
provided cover for additional costs, but Miss B hadnt bought it. Overall, she didnt think 
Great Lakes had done anything wrong when it declined the claim.
Miss B didnt agree with our investigators findings. She said that someone shouldve helped 
to pay towards her flight home, and Great Lakes had told her over the phone that shed be 
able to get some of that money back.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I asked both Miss B and Great Lakes for more information. Great Lakes couldnt find any 
recordings of calls from Miss B. But I explained that while I hadnt been able to listen to any 
phone calls Miss B had with Great Lakes, I didnt think this made a difference here. This was 
because even if Great Lakes gave Miss B incorrect information, I think she wouldve still 
bought the flight she did. This was because she said it was the only flight available, and she 
needed to get home. 
I also explained to Miss B that it looked like she had received a refund from the airline for her 
unused return ticket. It wasnt clear if the £245 she paid to change that flight was refunded. 
But in any event, I said that shed need to pursue the provider for a refund for this.
I noted that Great Lakes had already paid Miss B £337. So, I explained that even if the £245 
charge was irrecoverable from elsewhere, Great Lakes had already paid Miss B more than 
this. And I said I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Great Lakes to pay Miss B 
anything further for the distress and inconvenience caused even if it had given her incorrect 
information, considering how much it had already paid her.
Overall, I didnt think Great Lakes needed to do anything else, based on the information Id 
seen. Miss B said she wanted a final decision on her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Miss Bs complaint.
The cancellation and curtailment section of Miss Bs policy says the following:
What IS covered:
1. Unused non-refundable pre-booked travel and accommodation expenses which you 
have paid or are contracted to pay; and
2. Unused non-refundable pre-booked excursions which you have paid or are 
contracted to pay; and
3. Reasonable additional travel and accommodation expenses which you incur 
returning to the UK which on medical advice is necessary and unavoidable as a 
result of bullet point 1 below.
[] We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Policy limits and excesses table 
for the level of cover you have selected, for your share of the cost of your trip as a 
result of:
The death, injury or illness, as certified by a medical practitioner, of you, your 
relative or colleague or travelling companion or a friend or relative with whom you 
have arranged to stay; orYour attendance at a court of law as a witness (except as an expert witness) or for 
Jury Service where postponement of the Jury Service has been denied by the Clerk 
of the Courts Office; or
You or your travelling companion is a member of the Armed Forces, Police, 
Ambulance, Fire or Nursing Service and authorised leave is cancelled due to an 
unexpected emergency or posting overseas at the time of your trip; or
You or your travelling companion are instructed to stay at home (within 14 days of 
your departure date) or return home by a relevant authority due to severe damage to 
your home  or place of business in the UK caused by serious fire, explosion, storm, 
flood, subsidence or burglary; or
The Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) declaring either of the following:
Your compulsory quarantine preventing you from travelling
Your destination is unsafe to visit and they advise against all or all but 
essential travel; or
Your redundancy or that of your travelling companion or your spouse (including a 
civil partner or co-habitee) notified to you after the purchase of this policy or after the 
date of the trip was booked, whichever is later; or
Your cancellation of the trip as a result of a travel delay under Section 5: Travel 
delay and missed departure where the delay is in excess of 12 hours at your first 
international departure point from the UK.
Great Lakes accepted Miss Bs situation is covered by the curtailment section of the policy. 
But this section only covers unused costs in her situation, and not the additional costs 
Miss B is claiming for.
I can see that the optional Travel Disruption section of the policy does provide cover for 
irrecoverable unused costs as well as any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred in 
this situation. But Miss B didnt buy this optional cover.
Overall, I think Great Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably in considering Miss Bs claim 
under the curtailment section of the policy. And I think it has acted reasonably in saying it 
would only consider unused costs under this section of the policy. This is supported by the 
above policy wording, as well as the fact that Miss B couldve bought an optional Travel 
Disruption cover which wouldve covered additional costs as well.
It looks like Miss B received a refund for her unused return flight from the airline. Its not 
clear if the £245 she paid to change her flight was refunded. But even if Miss B isnt 
successful at recovering this cost elsewhere, I note that Great Lakes has already paid her 
more than this amount.
As I already explained to Miss B, even if Great Lakes did give her incorrect information over 
the phone, I think she wouldve still bought the flight she did. This is because she said it was 
the only one available and she needed to get home. Great Lakes has also already paid 
Miss B more than it needed to, even after taking into account the £245 charge as above. 
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Great Lakes to pay anything 
further, even if it did give Miss B incorrect information.
Taking everything into account, I dont think theres anything else Great Lakes needs to do in 
the circumstances of this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman