DRN-2166120
The complaint
Ms G says Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) lent to her irresponsibly. Ms G also 
complains about the amount of interest added to one of her loans and says cash4unow 
hasnt helped her make her repayments.
What happened
Ms G had three loans with cash4unow, some of the details of which Ive summarised below.
Loan no. Amount 
borrowedStart date End date
1 £100 25/08/2017 03/11/2017
14 month gap
2 £150 11/01/2019 29/03/2019
3 £550 28/05/2019 n/a
An adjudicator considered Ms Gs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He didnt 
think cash4unow had lent to Ms G irresponsibly and didnt think there was a problem with the 
amount of interest cash4unow had added to loan 3. Ms G didnt accept the adjudicators 
opinion, so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Having looked at the information provided to cash4unow by Ms G together with the other 
information cash4unow obtained as part of the loan applications (including credit checks) 
I do not think it was unfair or unreasonable for cash4unow to have agreed these loans. The 
first loan was for a relatively modest amount compared to Ms Gs income and I dont think 
the expenditure information Ms G provided, taken together with the cash4unows other 
affordability checks, suggested this loan was not sustainably affordable for Ms G. 
There was then a long gap before Ms G asked cash4unow for another loan, so I dont think 
cash4unow ought to have been concerned Ms G was reliant on the loans it was providing. 
Again, this loan looked sustainably affordable on the basis of the checks cash4unow carried 
out  and I dont think there was a need for additional checks for this loan. 
While the third loan was much larger than the first two, it was repayable in six monthly 
instalments of less than £200, which I again do not think looked unaffordable on the basis of 
the checks cash4unow undertook. I would not have expected cash4unow to ask Ms G for 
proof of income or expenditure for a loan like this, and I think checks below that threshold 
would have been unlikely to suggest this loan was unaffordable.
Ive also considered the agreement for loan 3 and what it says about the interest payable. 
On the first page of the agreement it says:
The Total Amount Payable: is £1098.79, being the sum of the Total Amount of Credit 
£550.00 and the Total Charge For Credit £548.79 under this Loan Agreement.
I think the interest charge and total amount payable were both set out clearly. Ive seen no 
evidence cash4unow has asked Ms G to repay more than this amount. Nor would it be able 
to do so under the regulators cost cap.
Finally, Ive considered Ms Gs complaint cash4unow didnt help her make her repayments 
when she was in financial difficulty. As far as I can see, at some point a payment plan was 
made but not adhered to as attempts to take the payments failed. The last contact between 
cash4unow and Ms G suggested Ms G was due to call cash4unow back to arrange a new 
plan, but no further contact was made. In the circumstances Im unable to find cash4unow 
treated Ms G unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman