DRN-1943098
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store 
card in 1998. Mrs L says AXA France IARD mis-sold her the PPI.
Mrs L took out the store card in a shop and was later sold PPI over the phone  but AXA has 
taken responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to AXA in my decision.
background
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt think that the policy had been mis-sold. 
Mrs L and her representative disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs L hasnt said much about how the PPI was sold to her, or what her circumstances were 
at the time  although we have asked several times for information from both her and her 
representative. But her representative has told us that she didnt understand what she was 
buying. 
AXA has said that Mrs L was sold her PPI policy after she had taken out her store card  
and that it was sold to her over the phone. Mrs Ls representative has questioned this  but it 
is not unusual for a PPI policy to be sold in this way, and we have no reason to doubt what 
AXA has told us.
As the policy was sold so long ago, theres no call recording available  but again, this isnt 
unusual, and businesses arent required to hold information indefinitely. So, Im unable to 
know what exactly was said at the time. But as AXA has told us the PPI was taken out after 
the store card was opened, I dont have enough to say that the PPI wasnt presented as 
optional and I cant uphold her complaint for this reason.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs L got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on the limited information I have about her circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so 
it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. And although it was more 
expensive than some other policies, it also provided a higher than usual level of benefits 
should she have needed to make a claim. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs L and her representative have said  including what they 
have said about a lack of evidence, that they shouldnt be expected to retain paperwork and 
that this service shouldnt just find in favour of AXA. 
But as Ive explained above, for a sale that took place this long ago we wouldnt expect 
either party involved in the complaint to keep much information. And having considered the 
evidence that is available to me, I havent found anything to say that the policy was mis-sold, 
which isnt the same as favouring one party over another. 
So, these points dont change my decision. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think 
the policy was mis-sold.
other considerations
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how lenders should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission where PPI was sold. 
But AXA France IARD wasnt Mrs Ls lender. So, I dont think these rules apply. 
As our adjudicator explained, the FCA set a deadline for new PPI complaints  including 
those about commission. The deadline was 29 August 2019. So, although Mrs L may 
approach her lender to make a complaint about commission if she hasnt already done so, 
its likely her lender will say that the complaint was made too late
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman