DRN-3196584
The complaint
Mr M complains that Accord Mortgages Limited recorded the wrong loan balance on his 
credit file. He says this increased his cost of borrowing when he bought a car.  
What happened
Mr M took out a mortgage with Accord in 2007. His account fell into arrears and a default 
was recorded in March 2016. Mr M voluntarily surrendered his property which Accord sold. A 
shortfall debt remained after the sale.
Mr M repaid the shortfall debt and his account was settled and closed in October 2019. 
Since then, the balance of his account should be shown on his credit file as zero. And for 
some months it is. But for some months the balance is shown as £280,000  an amount 
Mr M never owed.
Mr M complained about his credit file showing an incorrect balance in late 2019. Accord 
agreed this was wrong and said it would correct this. It paid compensation of £535, although 
that compensation was also for the upset caused by other issues.
Mr M applied for car finance in March 2020. His first application was declined. Mr M says this 
was because his credit file still wrongly showed a default balance of £280,000. He says he 
had to take out more expensive car finance which will cost him about £3,000 more over its 
term.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out why I thought Accord should pay 
further compensation (of £500) to Mr M. Accord agreed. Mr M didnt agree, saying the 
payments for his previous car finance were lower than for his current car finance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This must have been a frustrating matter for Mr M. Despite raising his concerns with Accord 
about the information on his credit file a number of times, there continued to be errors on his 
credit file. 
Mr M provided a copy of his credit report as at November 2020. This shows the mortgage 
loan as satisfied. It correctly showed the balance reducing as Mr M repaid the debt. But for 
some months since then it shows the balance as nil, but for others it shows it as £280,000. 
Mr M sent evidence in March 2021 that his credit file included an incorrect entry in early 
2021 showing a balance of £280,000.
Accord agreed the balance was nil. But it didnt think it was responsible for the continuing 
error and said Mr M would have to contact the credit reference agency about any 
discrepancies.
Accord has now confirmed that until recently its system didnt allow it to see historic 
balances  it didnt see and therefore didnt (until recently) correct the incorrect historic 
balance of £280,000.
I asked Mr M if hed provide an up to date credit report so I could see if this is now correct. 
Mr M didnt provide his report due to the costs involved, but hopefully it is now correct. So 
now I have to decide if this error increased the cost of Mr Ms car loan, and whether Accord 
should pay compensation for this. 
Credit reference agencies report information provided by lenders. Mr M couldnt require the 
credit reference agency to change the data on his credit file, even though it was wrong. 
Neither Accord nor the credit reference agency took responsibility for putting this right. This 
must have been very frustrating for Mr M, especially when hed paid off the shortfall debt. 
Mr M feels strongly that the error increased his cost of borrowing. Mr M cant provide 
evidence that his car finance is more expensive due to the error. Im not surprised by this as 
its very difficult to provide evidence of this sort  lenders dont usually share the details 
behind their lending decisions.
It seems that the car dealership looked into finance for Mr M. While it found a cheaper deal 
than the one he was offered, I cant know for certain that Mr M would have been offered this 
cheaper rate if the incorrect information hadnt been on his credit file. Similarly, I dont think I 
can fairly find that the only or the main reason Mr Ms current car finance payments are 
higher than his previous car finance loan is due to the error on his credit file. I have to bear in 
mind here that Mr M had other adverse data on his credit file. And lenders take a variety of 
factors into consideration, not just the information provided by a credit check. 
Because of this, I cant fairly find that Accords error was the only reason Mr M wasnt offered 
cheaper car finance. So I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Accord to pay 
compensation for Mr Ms finance costs. However, this matter caused Mr M inconvenience, 
frustration and upset over almost two years. While Accord paid compensation in January 
2020 the error wasnt sorted out until more than a year later. And that compensation was 
also for the upset caused by other matters.
While its difficult to assess whether Mr Ms cost of borrowing was increased by Accords 
error theres no doubt Mr M was worried that this was the case. Mr M had repaid his shortfall 
debt. Most likely he wanted to put the problems hed had with his mortgage behind him and 
rebuild his credit score. It must have been frustrating for Mr M when Accord didnt take 
responsibility for correcting what was obviously an error on his credit file. Ive taken into 
account the number of times Mr M had to contact Accord about this, and the time its taken 
to put matters right. I think its fair and reasonable to require Accord to pay further 
compensation of £500 (in addition to any compensation already paid). 
My final decision
My decision is that Accord Mortgages Limited should pay compensation of £500 to Mr M (in
addition to any compensation it has already paid).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman