DRN-4152240
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the delay she says ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) caused to the 
transfer of her pension plan which she says meant she suffered a financial loss. ReAssure 
has calculated how much it thinks she has lost as a result, but Mrs S doesnt think that figure 
is correct.
What happened
Mrs S held a pension through ReAssure. On 5 October 2020 she wanted to sell some of her 
assets from the pension. So she made an online request for a telephone number so that she 
could obtain the unit prices before selling.
On 12 October 2020 Mrs S called ReAssure and asked to switch all her funds into a cash 
fund. She then wanted to transfer the proceeds to her self-invested personal pension (SIPP) 
 which was requested by its provider on 7 November 2020.  Mrs Ss SIPP provider said it 
expected the funds from ReAssure on 19 November 2020, but as they werent received 
Mrs S chased up the transfer on three occasions until they were eventually received on 
4 December 2020. So she complained about the financial loss she said she suffered from 
being uninvested for the extra period of time.
In January 2021 ReAssure confirmed it had begun an investigation into the matter. It then 
contacted Mrs S in March 2021 and accepted that the transfer had been completed outside 
of its service standard timescale. It sent Mrs S a cheque for £50 for the delay and said it 
would undertake a loss assessment to see if she had been financially disadvantaged. Mrs S 
responded setting out that she thought the losses amounted to around £17,697.
In September 2021, ReAssure told Mrs S it was still waiting for information from her SIPP 
provider. It said it could continue to wait  which would incur a further delay, or, using a 
different way of calculating the loss, it could make a cash compensation payment of £414. 
Mrs S didnt accept the offer and said she wanted ReAssure to continue with its request for 
information from the SIPP provider. 
She hadnt heard anything by March 2022 and wrote to ReAssure  also advising it of a 
change of address. Five months later she called for an update but was told her complaint 
had been closed and her change of address hadnt been updated. 
ReAssure said it would reopen the complaint and eventually it wrote to Mrs S in 
November 2022. After carrying out a loss assessment calculation, it offered redress of 
£10,893.09. Mrs S wanted ReAssure to confirm why it had used unit prices from the date it 
assessed her claim and not the date the loss had originally occurred.
After further delays ReAssure confirmed its position in a letter dated 23 December 2022. It 
said it should have released the funds to the SIPP provider within its 10 day turnaround time 
 so 23 November 2020. It had worked out the cost of the unit prices on the day it should 
have released the funds compared with when it did and arrived at the loss figure it had 
previously set out.
But, as she thought the redress was significantly less than she herself had calculated, Mrs S 
brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into the matter and said the 
complaint should be upheld because ReAssure hadnt carried out the calculation in line with 
how wed expect to see it done. She set out the recommended methodology for any redress 
arising from the delay and also said ReAssure should pay £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay. 
Mrs S thought a simple calculation of the unit price difference between 29 November and 
7 December 2020 would have been more appropriate. She also thought we hadnt fully 
considered the distress shed suffered over a period of two years as she didnt think 
ReAssure would have paid anything without her determination to achieve a positive 
outcome. 
ReAssure said that, during the time the delay occurred, it was actually operating a 15 day 
turnaround time  due to staff working from home because of the global pandemic. So its 
first calculation showed just a one day delay to service standards which was reflected by its 
first compensation offer. But, when Mrs S contacted it again, ReAssure agreed to review the 
calculation based on its standard service agreement of 10 days which resulted in 
compensation of over £10,000. So it thought it had carried out the calculation correctly and 
had paid an appropriate level of compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
The investigator was persuaded to change her view of things to reflect ReAssures position 
and felt its payments were fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But Mrs S didnt accept 
the change in outcome. She believed her loss had been crystallised on 7 December 2020  
which was the date the delayed funds were paid to her SIPP provider. She still believed the 
price difference of the units between this date and the date the funds should have been 
received was the simplest way to calculate any investment loss. She said she had calculated 
this to be £17,697.07. She again referred to the severe stress this matter had caused her  
and the time taken to chase up ReAssure, over a period of two years. 
She asked for her complaint be considered by an ombudsman  so it was passed to me to 
review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said I thought ReAssures redress calculation and payment was 
probably fair and reasonable in the circumstances, but I thought it ought to pay more 
compensation. I made the following points in support of my findings:
There was no dispute that ReAssure had delayed the transfer. The matter to resolve 
was whether ReAssures eventual offer of £10,893.09, which was based on its usual 
10 day turnaround times, was reasonable.
I thought it was reasonable  as it compared the position Mrs S ought to be in now 
against her actual position. This was done by calculating the loss as of October 2022 
and bringing that loss up to date. 
I had considered Mrs Ss position with regard to her calculation using the difference 
in unit prices  but I thought ReAssures offer was fair and reasonable. 
I thought Mrs S would have been impacted by ReAssures lack of communication 
with her during the complaint process  as well as its decision to close her complaint 
for five months without any justification. So I thought ReAssure ought to pay Mrs S 
an additional £350 for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused her. Responses to the provisional decision
ReAssure accepted the provisional decision and said it would pay the additional 
compensation. But Mrs S was unhappy with the outcome. Initially she said she accepted my 
findings and understood Id told ReAssure to pay £6,804  which was the difference between 
what it had paid her and the amount she had claimed. However, she didnt think the 
recommended compensatory payment of £350 was sufficient for the amount of stress shed 
suffered. She thought it was unreasonable for ReAssure to accept liability for its error but 
then to drag out the outcome for over two years and she didnt think Id fully taken the impact 
of that into account.
But I then explained that, while I had said ReAssures payment for the financial loss was fair 
and reasonable, I had upheld the complaint in respect of the additional payment I thought 
ReAssure should pay for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
Mrs S said her understanding now was that Id agreed that ReAssure could manipulate the 
compensation payable by choosing the date of the calculation to coincide with falls in the 
markets. She thought that if ReAssure had been made to carry out its calculation in a 
timelier manner  when the markets were higher, then she would have received greater 
redress. She also thought I hadnt accounted for the investment returns she could have 
achieved from the £17,697 that she calculated she would have received if the redress had 
been calculated when the proceeds were eventually transferred to the new provider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I can understand 
Mrs Ss continued frustration here  and Ive carefully considered her response. But I think 
ReAssures redress payment is fair and reasonable in the circumstances although I believe it 
needs to pay more compensation for the impact of its delay in responding to and resolving 
the complaint. 
ReAssures redress calculation and payment  
All parties have agreed that ReAssure did delay the transfer of Mrs Ss SIPP. 
ReAssure, after around two years, carried out a second redress calculation and paid Mrs S 
£10,893.09. It said the calculation was based on a 10 day turnaround time service standard, 
as opposed to the 15 days it operated within during the pandemic  which was when the 
delay occurred. So what I have to decide is whether the redress calculation is fair and 
reasonable. 
Ive based my consideration on our objective of ensuring that any redress should put Mrs S 
back as closely as possible into the position she would now be but for ReAssures error 
which led to the delay. So, as the delay in this case was four working days, ReAssure 
needed to compare the position of Mrs Ss SIPP with what it would have been had the four 
day delay not occurred. Ive looked carefully at the calculation, and Im satisfied that the 
figures which have been input are in line with the position the SIPP should have been in. 
Mrs S says that because ReAssure carried out the calculation when it did it was able to use 
a date which reflected lower unit prices, and that it has manipulated the amount of 
compensation for that reason. She says that an earlier calculation date would have meant 
markets were more in her favour and she would have received more. She doesnt think thats fair. 
But I dont think ReAssure has used incorrect dates. Obviously it had to carry out the 
calculation on a certain date  which it reflected in its methodology. But the actual redress 
workings simply reflected the pensions value on that date - had the transfer occurred four 
days earlier. The date the calculation took place was only relevant in terms of crystallising 
the loss and bringing it up to date to ensure Mrs S is put back as closely as possible into the 
position she ought to now be in. Mrs S also said we hadnt taken into account the investment 
growth she could have achieved if the calculation had been carried out earlier, but by 
bringing the loss up to date using the actual returns of her pension funds does, I believe, 
take that into account.
Overall I think ReAssures redress methodology is fair and reasonable in this case, and in 
line with what Id expect to see. Im also mindful of the fact that the outcome of the earlier 
calculation using the 15 day pandemic turnaround service standards only led to a financial 
loss of £414  which I dont think was unreasonable given the situation at the time. So I think 
ReAssures decision to undertake another calculation based on its usual historical service 
standards is a fair and reasonable position.
But ReAssure did take over two years to conclude its investigation and to make a payment 
to Mrs S. So Ive also looked at how Mrs S should be compensated for the impact of the time 
it took for ReAssure to resolve the matter.
The impact on Mrs S and the distress and inconvenience she suffered
Initially ReAssure answered Mrs Ss complaint within two months  although this was only to 
confirm it accepted responsibility for the delay and that it would carry out a loss assessment 
to work out the effect. It also paid her £50 at that time for the delay in its response. But 
ReAssure didnt contact Mrs S again for six months, and then it made an alternative offer to 
her as it said it was still waiting for the SIPP provider to provide relevant information. Im 
mindful that ReAssure isnt solely responsible for a situation where its waiting for information 
from a third party, but I dont think it was fair for ReAssure not to update Mrs S for six 
months.
However, when Mrs S contacted ReAssure for an update and to provide her new address, it 
was a further five months before she was informed that her complaint had been closed and 
that her change of address hadnt been updated. ReAssure didnt explain why Mrs Ss 
complaint was closed, especially as in September 2021 she told ReAssure she wanted it to 
continue to try and obtain the information from the SIPP provider.
Looking at these factors I think this period of almost a year without resolution would have 
had an impact on Mrs S. I think she would have assumed that her complaint was being dealt 
with over that extended period and I think she would have been hugely concerned that she 
wasnt going to get an outcome when she discovered the matter had been closed. Because 
ReAssure didnt communicate with Mrs S it raised her expectations that the matter was 
being investigated and that it was her SIPP provider that was causing the delay, so I can 
only imagine the frustration Mrs S would have felt when she discovered no progress had 
been made to resolve things. 
Mrs S says that shes suffered a significant amount of stress over an extended period of time 
and the only reason that she got some kind of resolution from ReAssure was because of her 
perseverance. 
And I do accept that Mrs S was impacted for an unnecessarily long time and inconvenienced 
by having to chase up ReAssure until November 2021  some two years after the event. So, looking at the situation overall, I think ReAssure should pay Mrs S an additional £350 as 
compensation for the impact its errors and delays would have had on her.  
Putting things right
ReAssures redress payment for Mrs Ss investment loss is fair and reasonable in my 
opinion. Im satisfied that the payment puts Mrs S back as close to the position she would 
now be in had there not been a delay in transferring her pension.
But I think ReAssure caused Mrs S significant levels of distress and inconvenience by 
delaying its loss assessment calculation, failing to keep her updated, and raising her 
expectations that the complaint was being investigated when in fact ReAssure had closed it 
without Mrs Ss permission. 
I think payment of an additional £350 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mrs Ss complaint and within the range of what Id expect to see in similar circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mrs Ss complaint against ReAssure Limited.
ReAssure Limited should make an additional compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman