DRN-3214140
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is in relation to a property insurance policy he held with Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited. He has complained:
he made Hiscox aware of his mental health issues in 2012 and 2014 when he made 
claims, but he doesnt feel that it has offered him the support he would expect;
he doesnt feel that a power of attorney (PoA) provided to Hiscox in 2014 should have 
been acted upon. As such, the second payment made under the claim should have been 
made directly to him, rather than into a business account as the attorney instructed;
at no time it Hiscox receive his permission to deal with anyone other than himself;
if Hiscox didnt know anything about his ill-health as it alleges, it should have been 
alarmed by receipt of the PoA and checked its validity.  Had it done so, he would have 
told it that he was not happy for it to deal with the attorney;
he was initially unable to access Hiscoxs portal to review the results of a subject access 
request (SAR) hed made. Once he was able to access it, he was unable to download 
the documents to keep them for his records; 
the information sent under the SAR is incomplete; and
Hiscox failed to communicate with him in a timely manner. 
What happened
In December 2012 Mr Gs home suffered storm damage. Hiscox accepted the claim and it 
settled it in cash so that Mr H could get the repairs done.  
Unfortunately, the property suffered further storm damage in December 2013 while Mr G 
was away from home. There was damage to the roof, chimneys and interior of the property. 
Hiscox again accepted the claim. It appointed a loss adjuster to assess the claim. Mr G was 
moved out of the property because of its condition and due to him suffering from a serious 
physical illness; thought partly to have been contracted due to the conditions in the property. 
An initial cash payment was made to Mr G to allow some repairs to be done to make the 
property watertight. The loss adjusters then appointed contractors to strip and dry the 
property. The repairs were then cash settled. 
Partway through the claim, however, Hiscox was provided with a power of attorney for 
matters relating to the property. It was told that Mr G had moved abroad, and the attorney 
would be dealing with all things relating to the property from that point on, including the 
insurance claim. Mr G didnt contact Hiscox about the claim again until 2020.
The insurance policy ended, and was replaced elsewhere, because the property was to be 
rented out as a holiday let going forward. The second and final payment made for the repairs 
was paid to a business account in the name of the property. 
In February 2020 Mr G contacted Hiscox. He separately requested a subject access request 
and details of the claims that had been made on the policy. Specifically, he asked for the 
details of the claim relating to the December 2013 damage  reports on the damage, 
costings, amounts paid, to who and when.
Hiscox processed the SAR and made the information available to Mr G through its secure 
portal. He accessed this information on the day it was made available and commented on it 
through the portal. There is evidence that he accessed the information at a later date too. 
However, it doesnt appear that the separate request for claim information was processed 
until sometime later. 
Mr G wasnt happy with the information contained within the SAR and he complained. He 
also raised concerns about the PoA, how Hiscox had dealt with him and being unable to 
access the portal. Hiscox explained that it was not in a position to investigate the validity of a 
PoA, but as it was witnessed and stamped by a firm of solicitors, which was a member of the 
Law Society at that time, it was satisfied that it was correct to act upon the instructions of the 
attorney. In addition, it explained that where a PoA was in place, it would be normal for it to 
have dealt directly with the attorney from that point on.
Hiscox didnt accept that Mr G hadnt been able to access the SAR information, as the portal 
showed that he had accessed it on two occasions and had left comments each time. In 
addition, Hiscox said that it was unaware of any mental health issues until 2020. It had been 
aware of a physical illness in 2014, but nothing more. It provided Mr G with a copy of the 
signed PoA, which hadnt been included in the SAR.
Mr G remained unhappy with Hiscoxs responses and the information he had been provided 
with in the SAR. Hiscox explained that the appropriate body to deal with any discontent with 
the SAR was the Information Commissioners Office. However, it also provided him with 
details of the payments made under the two insurance claims, including where they had 
been made. The damage reports and costings that Mr G had asked for werent provided. 
Further correspondence was entered into and in June 2020 Hiscox issued its final response 
to the complaint.  It summarised the events surrounding the second claim and that in 
April 2014 it had been told that Mr G had moved and the property was to be used as a 
holiday let. A PoA was provided appointing an attorney that would be dealing with all things 
relating to the property. It highlighted that the PoA was signed by him and stamped by 
solicitors. As such, its claims team dealt with the attorney from that point on. The second 
instalment of the claim settlement was paid into an account in the name of the rental 
business and the claim closed in May 2014. Hiscox repeated that it didnt do anything wrong 
as the PoA allowed the attorney to deal with the insurance claim. As such, Hiscox didnt 
agree that it owed Mr G anything as the claim was settled in full. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Hiscoxs responses to his concerns and asked this service to look 
into the complaint. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she only 
recommended that it be upheld in part. She didnt consider Hiscox did anything wrong in 
relation to accepting the PoA, or that the evidence indicated it knew about Mr Gs medical 
situation until 2020. However, she wasnt satisfied that Hiscox had done enough once it was 
aware of Mr Gs medical situation. As it didnt discuss how his medical condition affected 
him. She was satisfied that how it handled the SAR and interreacted with him, caused him 
distress. The investigator concluded that Hiscox should:
provide Mr G with a copy of the SAR information in an alternative format that suited his 
needs;
provide Mr G with copies of the invoices and receipts relating to the 2014 claim; and pay Mr G £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience he had suffered. 
Mr G didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that he didnt think we had 
grasped the situation regarding his health. He provided further comment on his health 
situation and said that a charitable organisation had financial safeguarding for him in place. 
Mr G also said that at the time he signed the PoA he was lacking capacity to manage his 
financial affairs. He reiterated that he could not access the portal for all the documents; not 
all of the documents he was expecting have been provided and he has not seen any 
invoices for the alleged works carried out to his property. Mr G also added that Hiscox had 
admitted in telephone conversations during his complaint that it was aware of his mental 
health issues in 2014. 
Subsequently, Mr G said that the PoA had been put in place to deal with matters to do with 
his utilities. He provided evidence that Hiscox had made the first payment into his account, 
but then paid the second one into an account that wasnt in his name. In addition, in relation 
to an email from the loss adjusters acting on Hiscoxs behalf referring to invoices, he said he 
didnt know where the loss adjuster got the figures from as no invoices were provided. 
Hiscox responded by confirming that it had explained to Mr G three times what information 
he was entitled to under the SAR he had made. Furthermore, it highlighted that Mr G had 
been able to access the information on the portal and it had advised him on numerous 
occasions how to use it. In relation to its method of communication with Mr G, it considered 
that it emailing him was reasonable given that was how he had contacted it initially and 
asked to be communicated with. It didnt consider that Mr G had been disadvantaged by how 
it had communicated. Hiscox also said that both the member of staff who dealt with the 
complaint and the one who dealt with the SAR were aware of his vulnerability. It didnt think 
there was anything to suggest that its methods of communication were not suitable. As such, 
it didnt agree that compensation was payable. 
In addition, Hiscox confirmed that the claim had been dealt with by a loss adjuster and in line 
with the loss adjusters retention policy, copies of the invoices and receipts from 2014 were 
no longer available by the time Mr G contacted it in 2020. It highlighted that Mr G had been 
aware of the claim settlement prior to that contact. 
In relation to a query from the investigator about some wording in an email from the loss 
adjusters in 2014 regarding Mr Gs health; Hiscox confirmed that it had checked with the loss 
adjusters about this. Hiscox confirmed that the loss adjusters had confirmed there was no 
record of any health issues for Mr G, other than a physical illness he had been suffering from 
when the loss adjuster first became involved with the case. As such, Hiscox said it appeared 
the comment about relapse was in relation to that physical medical condition, not a mental 
health issue. 
We contacted the charitable organisation Mr G had mentioned for information about his 
safeguarding arrangements. However, it stated that it didnt have any arrangements in place 
for Mr G. Indeed, such arrangements werent a facility it offered. 
I issued a provisional decision on 15 November 2021, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt
Mr G is unhappy that Hiscox acted on the PoA in 2014 and has said it didnt have his 
authority to do so. As our investigator explained to Mr G, the PoA was a legal authority for 
Hiscox, and any other organisation involved with the property, to deal with the appointed 
attorney. I cant find that it did anything wrong in this regard. 
As for the matter of the SAR, I would remind Mr G that this service is not the appropriate 
body to consider whether Hiscox complied with the relevant regulations when it compiled the SAR. As such, I wont comment on that aspect of this matter. However, what I would say is 
that there does appear to be some confusion over what was going to be supplied in the 
SAR. Mr G had asked for two things; a SAR and certain details of the 2014 claim. The latter 
request wasnt dealt with until some months later, but the SAR request was. As such, Mr G 
appears to have believed both requests were being dealt with as one; that the claim 
information was being incorporated in the SAR information. He was very unhappy and 
frustrated when the claim information wasnt provided. 
At this point, I think Hiscox should have realised its error and dealt with Mr Gs second 
request regarding information about the claim. However, it didnt do so for some time and 
when it did, only provided some of the information Mr G had asked for. The remaining 
information, Hiscox has now confirmed, no longer existed, but unfortunately, Mr G wasnt 
made aware of this fact. As such, he appears to have thought that Hiscox was concealing 
information from him. 
As for Hiscox using its portal to allow Mr G access to the SAR information, I dont think that 
was inappropriate. Many organisations, including us, provide SAR information using a 
secure electronic system. I am also satisfied that Mr H was able to access the information 
when he wanted to and that it was downloadable had he wanted to do that. However, I think 
the issues he reported with the portal were less to do with the system, as the information 
provided. As I have said above, it appears he was expecting more information than he 
received. 
Mr G has said that he told Hiscoxs representatives about his mental health issues when 
both the 2012 and 2014 claims were dealt with. Hiscox has checked with the loss adjusters 
and it has said what records it has, only record a physical illness in 2014. It has also 
confirmed that its own records dont have any information about this situation until 2020. 
Although I accept it is possible Mr G mentioned it to someone attending his home to assess 
the repairs, I cant, given the evidence, conclude that Hiscox definitely was made aware 
before 2020. 
Our investigator explained that we would expect to see a financial services business explore 
with a consumer in Mr Gs medical situation what his needs are and how best to 
communicate. I accept Hiscoxs comments that Mr G informed it during telephone 
conversations that it could email him with the information he wanted. So I dont think it 
emailing Mr G was necessarily wrong, but I do think it should have had a conversation with 
Mr G about what he needed outside of solely the method of communication. For example, 
from the telephone calls Mr G had when he contacted Hiscox, it is clear that Mr G reacted 
badly to what he perceived as bad manners. He also needed clarity in relation to who he 
was dealing with, what their role was and what they would be doing. Had such a 
conversation been had, things like the upset caused to Mr G in February 2020 when he 
didnt receive an acknowledgement to an email or response for a period of weeks, could 
have been avoided.
Overall, while I dont think Hiscox did anything wrong in its use of systems and in acting on 
the PoA it was sent, there were service failings after Mr G contacted it in 2020. This caused 
Mr G upset and frustration. I consider Hiscox should pay Mr G £250 compensation in this 
regard.
Hiscox said that it thought there was some confusion caused by Mr G having contacted it via 
various channels with different requests. However, in order to resolve the complaint, it 
agreed to pay the compensation I had set out in my provisional decision.
Mr G didnt respond to my provisional decision, but I am satisfied that he received it.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further evidence or comment has been made by either party to the complaint, I see no 
reason to change my conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I will require Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr G compensation of £250. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman