DRN-2768333
The complaint
Ms R on behalf of Mr W has complained about a boiler service undertaken by British Gas 
Insurance Limited (BG) that they believe led to a risk from carbon monoxide. 
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in this case and have received comments from 
both Mr W and from BG which Ive taken into account and will refer to below.
What happened
Mr W has a HomeCare policy with BG. Ms R is his partner. A BG engineer attended their 
home on 8 September 2020 to undertake the annual boiler service. Ms R was concerned 
that he arrived without any PPE, and she had to ask him to put on a mask
That evening, whilst Mr W was showering, the carbon monoxide alarm went off. Ms R says 
this had never happened before and they suspected that it must be connected with the 
engineers visit. Ms R says that when Mr W went to investigate he felt quite light headed.
Ms R phoned BG who advised her to open windows and doors and not to put their two-year-
old child to bed. Ms R, who was pregnant at the time, left the house for safety reasons until 
an engineer from National Grid arrived two hours later. He was unable to detect any trace of 
carbon monoxide, but the windows had been open for two hours. He turned off the gas 
supply and said they should contact BG the following morning.
The following morning Ms R phoned BG and was told that two engineers would come later 
that morning. BG then phoned back to say that this was an error and that a single engineer 
would come later that day. When he arrived, also without PPE, Ms R says he told her that he 
knew the engineer whod attended the previous day, and that the CO alarm going off was 
nothing to do with the boiler and must be a fault with the CO alarm. 
Ms R was concerned that this engineer might be covering up a potentially fatal error by his 
colleague. Ms R says the engineer was present for some time, and got some parts from his 
van. He told Ms R that hed changed something on the tap but wouldnt provide her with 
any paperwork detailing work done. 
Ms R complains that the engineers made her feel uncomfortable in her own home because 
of the lack of PPE, that her familys lives were put at risk, and their concerns hadnt been 
taken seriously by BG.
BG has said in response that at the time PPE wasnt required, Ms R stayed in another room 
and wasnt near the engineer, never mentioned being pregnant, and social distance was 
maintained at all times. To check the radiators the engineer went out of the back door, 
around the house, and back in the front door to check upstairs. It says he never went into the 
room Ms R was in. It says the engineers followed all business and government guidelines 
regarding Covid-19.
Ms R has also complained that after she raised her complaint with BG, she received an 
acknowledgment on 16 September, but as at 13 November had heard nothing more from 
BG. She feels that BG doesnt care and is aggrieved that theyd BG paid £60 for the service 
as well as ongoing premiums for their Homecare policy.
BG has offered £30 as a gesture of goodwill for not contacting Ms R to discuss the concerns 
she raised.
Mr W, through Ms R, wasnt satisfied with BGs response to his complaint and so brought it 
to this service.
Our investigators view was that on the balance of probability Mr Ws CO alarm was faulty 
and there was no carbon monoxide leak for which BG mightve been responsible.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view and asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill give my reasons.
I can appreciate the concern that Ms R and Mr W wouldve had on the evening of 8 
September when the CO alarm went off, and particularly because they had a young child in 
the house, and Ms R was pregnant. Fortunately, National Grid was able to address the 
immediate concern within two hours by turning off the gas, and was unable to detect any 
trace of CO in the house.
I think its understandable that Mr W and Ms R suspected a connection between the alarm 
going off, which they say it had never previously done, and the BG engineers visit earlier 
that day. Ive looked at BGs records for the first engineers visit on 8 September. This record 
states "Code5 Fitted flue bracket so not at risk".
According to Ms R, the second BG engineer, who attended the following day, told her initially 
that he hadnt done anything to the boiler, but Ms R says she challenged this as hed had to 
get parts from his van. She says his response was that hed changed something on the tap 
as there was something leaking. He wouldnt provide her with any paperwork for the work 
hed done.
I asked BG for any comments it had about the work the first engineer had recorded. I also 
asked it to confirm any work its second engineer had done to the boiler, and for any 
evidence it had to support its response. Its response was: I have no concerns at all, I have 
spoken to the engineer and he said he doesnt remember fitting any parts. The engineer 
fitted a bracket to remove the at risk. I have checked the parts box and there is no comment 
in there.
I didnt consider that this response provided any clarification. 
In response to my provisional decision, BG provided further information. It stated that the 
engineer who conducted the annual service on 8 September fitted a new pressure switch, 
re-pressurised the expansion vessel and installed a flue bracket. BG also explained that 
when National Grid attended, (following the CO alarm going off and Mr W feeling light 
headed) it found nothing dangerous from the boiler but recommended a repair engineer be 
called in case there were any underlying problem. It says that its engineer who attended on 
9 September completed a full integrity check, and that no parts were installed or fitted This is 
inconsistent with Ms Rs report of what he told her. It went on to say that this engineer did go to his van to collect a new carbon monoxide detector, having previously said that its 
engineer didnt remember fitting any parts.
Having considered its response, I remain of the view that its more likely than not that BG 
was at fault here. Whilst its possible that Mr Ws CO detector was faulty, the fact that the 
alarm going off coincided with Mr W feeling light headed and the fact that a BG engineer had 
worked on the boiler earlier that day leads me to conclude that the alarm was probably not to 
blame. In addition, I consider that BGs explanations as to what its engineers did are unclear.
BG did explain that its engineers are not currently providing paper documentation because 
of current risks of Covid-19 transmission, so the failure to provide any paperwork to Mr W 
was not an attempt to avoid admission of any fault or error.
BG in its response did acknowledge that the whole situation couldve caused a great deal of 
stress, especially with the added Covid pressures and it didnt get back to Mr W as quickly
and efficiently as it shouldve done. It offered Mr W a further £30.00 compensation on top of 
the £30.00 it had already offered.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr W has said that the compensation I proposed to 
award was insufficient, and that what would be appropriate is compensation equivalent to 
one years premium.
Having taken into account the responses to my provisional decision, I remain of the view that 
its beyond coincidence that Mr Ws CO alarm went off the same day that BG did a boiler 
service. Ms R says it had never gone off before. Mr W was said to have felt light headed. 
BGs record sheet shows that the engineer who attended to conduct the service had worked 
on the flue, and the next day the second engineer was noticed getting some parts from his 
van and told Ms R he fitted something. I think Ms R wouldve been likely to have 
remembered if this had been a new CO detector.
I remain of the opinion that its more likely than not that something the first engineer did, or 
failed to do, caused a leak that was responsible for the CO alarm going off and for Mr W 
feeling light headed, and that the second engineer did something to fix this. 
I accept that this experience was very upsetting for Ms R and Mr W. They wouldve been 
concerned for their own health, and in particular for the health of their young child. In these 
circumstances I feel that some compensation would be appropriate.
I explained in my provisional decision how this services approaches awards of 
compensation. Having taken into consideration the responses received from Mr W and BG, I 
remain of the view that compensation of £100 in addition to the £30 already offered by BG is 
fair and reasonable.  I dont consider that less is justified as my view is that BG was at fault, 
and that this caused understandable upset to Mr W and Ms R. And I dont consider that 
more is justified because the cause of the upset was dealt with promptly. The risk that they 
faced was addressed as soon as their gas supply was turned off by National Grid. They then 
would have had some minor inconvenience in being without a gas supply until it was turned 
back on again the next day. 
I dont consider it appropriate to require BG to reimburse one years premiums as Mr W has 
suggested, as in my view this would go beyond compensating for upset and would in effect 
be imposing a financial penalty on BG. 
Ive also taken into account that Ms R experienced upset by the engineers lack of PPE and 
apparent disregard for Covid-19 precautionary measures. However from BGs explanation, 
its engineers maintained their distance from Ms R and her child.For these reasons, and taking into account that BG has already offered £30 compensation, I 
consider that an award of a further £100 is fair and reasonable which covers the cost of the 
service visit and provides some further compensation for upset. 
My final decision  
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint and I require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay him £100 compensation and to pay him the £30 its previously 
offered if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman