DRN-3178525
Complaint
Mrs K and Mr K has complained about the overdraft charges Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
applied to their current account. Theyve said Lloyds started charging a monthly usage fee 
when previously there hadnt been such a fee.
Background
Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that 
Lloyds had done anything wrong as it was entitled to change the way it charged for 
overdrafts and it didnt have reason to suspect Mrs may have been in financial difficulty. So 
he didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs K and Mr K disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs K and Mr Ks
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Lloyds charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. Lloyds was entitled to make the changes that it did to its 
overdraft pricing structure and while I accept Mrs K and Mr K might have preferred the 
previous method of charging, this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mrs K and Mr K if it applied the increased interest, fees and charges 
to Mrs K and Mr Ks account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mrs K and Mr K were experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive 
considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mrs K and Mr K fairly and 
reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Lloyds continued charging 
Mrs K and Mr K even though it ought to have known they were in financial difficulty or it 
ought to have realised this was the case. Ive looked through Mrs K and Mr Ks statements 
throughout the period concerned. And I cant see that Lloyds ought to have been aware that 
Mrs K and Mr K might have been struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Mrs K and Mr K did use their overdraft. But while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mrs K and Mr K expenditure, nonetheless there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions 
account going from the account. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mrs K and Mr K, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to have proceeded adding the charges that it 
did. And I dont think that Lloyds charged Mrs K and Mr K unfairly. As this is the case, I dont 
think that Lloyds needs to refund any interest, fees and charges and Im not upholding Mrs K 
and Mr Ks complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs K and Mr K  especially as they have 
been waiting sometime for an answer from us. But I hope theyll understand the reasons for 
my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman