DRN-2729261
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about Great Lakes Insurance SE declining his claim under his wedding 
insurance policy and the way the claim was handled.
Any other parties or representatives for the insurer will be referred to as Great Lakes for the 
purposes of this decision.
What happened
Mr B made a claim under his wedding insurance policy. Mr B said there had been poor 
communication between the church and the church grounds about the bookings and 
availability. It turned out that Mr B wouldnt be able to use the grounds as part of the wedding 
day plans and he was left with no choice but to cancel the event, set a new date and use a 
new venue. Mr B couldnt get back all of the deposits and costs he had already paid out for 
and he claimed for these from Great Lakes under his policy.
Great Lakes said the claim would be best made through a legal expenses claim. But after 
review it said the chances of success were low so it wouldnt take a legal expenses claim 
forward. It followed up by confirming that overall the claim was declined. Great Lakes 
accepted that the claims handling had taken too long, and Mr B had faced unreasonable 
delays. Great Lakes offered Mr B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
suffered. Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. In terms of the claim, she accepted that the 
policy didnt offer cover for the problem with the church grounds booking. But in terms of the 
claims handling, delays and customer service she said Great Lakes had been poor and 
caused a lot of problems for Mr B. She felt it had mad things more difficult for him as he tried 
to resolve the issues of cancelling and changing his plans. She said Great Lakes should 
increase the compensation offer for distress and inconvenience to £300.
Mr B didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B provided evidence of the expenses, deposits and costs he had lost due to the need to 
cancel and rearrange the wedding venue and date. Theres no doubt this would have been a 
very stressful time for him. And understandably Mr B wanted and expected to be reimbursed 
for his losses.
Claim declined
To start with Great Lakes had considered a legal expenses claim. But after checking it noted 
it would be very difficult to single out who was to blame and to follow that with a successful 
claim. I think thats reasonable.
So, it moved on to consider the rest of the policy wording. But the policy points out that one 
of the events listed in the booklet has to occur for the policy to step in and deal with the 
claim. In its letter to Mr B Great Lakes said:
We have referred the claim for guidance and have been advised that, as the claim itself 
does not match any of the covered risks as outlined in Part 1 above, irrespective of whether 
or not it is specifically excluded from cover, we are to issue a declinature of your proposal. 
Regrettably, we cannot offer any further assistance in this matter.
So, I think that Great Lakes acted reasonably and in line with the policy when it declined the 
claim. Although I can understand Mr Bs upset and frustration the policy isnt designed to 
deal with such claims.
Claims handling and customer service
I think Great Lakes accepted that the claims handling decision had taken too long, and the 
customer service provided had been poor. Mr B had to keep chasing for updates and 
answers. From the outset he was clearly very disappointed and upset by the situation he 
found himself in. Having to keep following up on whether or not he was going to get any of 
the money he had already paid out just added to the impact on him and his fiance. Theres 
no doubt that Great Lakes caused Mr B distress and inconvenience during this time. Mr B 
produced all the evidence requested of him, filled in the claim form, provided receipts, 
produced evidence of the rearranged venue and date, etc. It took several months for Great 
Lakes to clarify the claim situation and let Mr B know that it wouldnt be paying his claim. I 
accept that Great Lakes did offer Mr B £100 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience. But I dont think that is enough based on the delays and impact dealing with 
this claim had on Mr B. I think our investigator was right, an amount of £300 would be a fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Pay Mr B £300 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Pay Mr B £300 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
John QuinlanOmbudsman