DRN-3030805
The complaint
This complaint is about a joint mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in September 2004 when Mr and Mrs B arranged some additional borrowing to go with their 
existing mortgage.  Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, 
mis-sold them PPI. 
Only Mr B was covered by the policy, which included cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment and also life cover. However, in this decision I am considering only the PPI 
elements of the policy. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. They also said that the dates corresponding to 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage were outside the time-frames for considering commission. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
 
We dont have a copy of all the documents I think would have been used in the sale process 
as it was back in 2004. Businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely, but I do have 
sight of some of BoSs computerised records and Ive seen quite a few very similar 
complaints to this one. These records include Mr B having been asked a number of 
questions to check that he was eligible for the cover. Taking that into account, alongside 
what I already know consumers like Mr and Mrs B were supposed to be told and given when 
being offered mortgage PPI like this, I think its unlikely that the PPI element would have 
been added to their mortgage without Mr and Mrs Bs agreement. To complete the sale, they 
would then also have needed to provide their bank details so that the monthly premiums 
could be taken separately to the mortgage payments. 
I also think Mr and Mrs B would have been sent the policy details setting out everything that 
had been agreed in a schedule which Ive seen several times before.
All of this means that I think circumstances show Mr and Mrs B bought the PPI because it 
was a form of protection they wanted to have with their mortgage.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr B was eligible for the cover and 
Mr and Mrs B didnt have any other significant means to fall back on, so I think they had a 
need for it.
Ive also seen that there was nothing about Mr Bs employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for him to claim. And Mr B hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr B as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what he and Mrs B reasonably thought they were buying from the information 
they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs B would 
have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back or mental health conditions, 
in light of Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations or exclusions, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think he and Mrs B would 
have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out. It follows that I think 
the policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the 
time. I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were 
getting. And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Commission complaint
Ive also decided this is not a complaint where Im able to look into commission. 
Ill explain why. 
 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the 
PPI policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that 
could create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said 
that businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium, as well as any interest that may have been paid 
because of that.  
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship 
provisions in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were 
added to the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came into force on 6 April 2007. For 
these provisions to apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit 
agreement would still need to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would still need to be 
covered by the Consumer Credit Act on this date. 
Ive seen evidence from BoSs records that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was taken out in 
September 2004 and was closed in June 2007. That means the relevant lending for the 
purposes of a commission complaint ended then and was no longer running by 6 April 
2008. 
It follows that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage isnt affected by the guidelines Ive set out above. 
So BoS doesnt have to consider paying them any money in respect of the commission it 
got.
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr and Mrs B on this occasion.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award. And as Ive also 
decided that there isnt a commission complaint to consider, I dont require Bank of Scotland 
plc to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman