DRN-2815057
The complaint
Ms P says Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) discriminated against her because it didnt 
send her a copy of her travel insurance policy documents by post. 
Ms P also says the information contained on her certificate of travel insurance is incorrect.
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to administer the policy and deal 
with complaints on its behalf. 
What happened
Ms P held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by IPA. 
The policy was renewed over the phone in May 2020 and Ms P asked for the policy 
documents to be sent to her by email and post. IPA said it was unable to send post at that 
time because of the coronavirus pandemic.  
A few days later, Ms P complained to IPA. She said;
IPA had refused to send her policy documentation by post;
the amount shed paid for the policy wasnt correctly set out on her insurance 
certificate;
her insurance certificate didnt mention certain elements of her cover (medical 
emergency and repatriation cover, missed departure cover, hospital cash benefit 
and convalescence benefit);
the medical declaration form didnt correctly record some of the questions she was 
asked and the answers she gave;
shed received poor customer service from IPAs staff. 
IPA responded to Ms Ps complaint and said all its travel insurance staff were working from 
home due to government advice because of the coronavirus pandemic. However, IPA said 
Ms Ps request had been noted and it would send her documents by post as soon as its staff 
were back in the office. 
IPA said Ms P had never had cover for hospital cash benefit or convalescence benefit but 
that her policy did cover medical emergency, repatriation and missed departure despite 
these elements of cover not being mentioned on her insurance certificate. IPA also said 
information Ms P had been given on the telephone about cover available for travelling 
against Foreign and Commonwealth Office was correct. 
In conclusion IPA said, as a gesture of goodwill, it would provide Ms P with a pro-rata refund 
if she wished to cancel her policy. 
As Ms P remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to the attention of our service. One 
of our staff sent a copy of Ms Ps policy documentation to her by post in August 2020 
(although I note Ms P subsequently told us she didnt receive this letter). 
An investigator at our service looked into what had happened but didnt uphold Ms Ps 
complaint. Ms P didnt agree with our investigators opinion so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic were unprecedented and 
exceptional and many businesses had severely restricted or no access to their post-rooms. 
Its not for either Ms P or this service to decide how IPA should have interpreted government 
guidelines on working from home. IPA was entitled to take whatever action it wished to 
protect its staff and use its discretion to decide when it was appropriate for its staff to return 
to the office. While some of IPAs staff in other departments may have been working in the 
office, all of IPAs travel insurance department was working from home when Ms P bought 
her policy  and in the months thereafter. This meant IPA was unable to post Ms Ps 
documents to her. 
I understand Ms P was extremely anxious to receive her policy documentation by post as 
she does not have access to a printer and has limited access to the internet. Ms P says she 
was shielding and, therefore, could not arrange to have the documents printed elsewhere. 
So, Ms P feels she was treated less favourably than other customers of IPAs who did have 
printers. 
I also understand Ms P says she subsequently travelled abroad to see her elderly mother 
without printed copies of her travel insurance documentation. To put Ms Ps mind at ease, if 
shed fallen ill abroad, she wouldnt have been prevented from accessing medical treatment 
because she didnt have printed copies of her documents with her.    
While I have no doubt that IPAs inability to post Ms Ps documents to her was distressing, 
frustrating and inconvenient, I dont think IPA treated Ms P any differently to other customers 
who were in the same situation as her. And, in the circumstances of this particular case  
and given the reasons why Ms P says she wanted to have hard copies of her policy 
documents  I dont think IPA acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
I understand IPA did subsequently post Ms Ps policy documentation to her in August 2020 
and October 2020. 
Ms P says she paid a total of £205.86 for her travel insurance policy. Ms Ps certificate of 
insurance says the total premium paid for the policy was £205.86. The certificate also says, 
of this figure, £163.78 was paid to cover Ms Ps pre-existing medical conditions. This also 
matches the amount Ms P says she paid. So, Im satisfied the figures set out on Ms Ps 
certificate of insurance are correct. 
Ive reviewed Ms Ps certificate of insurance from May 2019. Hospital cash benefit and 
convalescence benefit were mentioned but the limit was blank. So, Ms P didnt hold either 
of these benefits in the May 2019 policy year. The May 2020 certificate of insurance didnt 
refer to these benefits at all  but Ms P didnt hold these benefits in the May 2020 policy year 
either. I dont think the fact that the May 2020 certificate of insurance didnt refer to these 
benefits by name made any difference to the extent of the cover Ms P held. 
An insurance certificate is intended to and is stated to be a summary of the cover available 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. Its not possible for an insurer to list each and 
every feature of an insurance policy in a summary document  nor are they obliged to  and the content of a certificate of insurance can change yearly, depending on what aspects of 
cover the insurer chooses to highlight. The terms and conditions of Ms Ps policy state that 
she does hold cover for medical emergency and repatriation, as well as for missed 
departure. So, again, I dont think the omission of these benefits from the certificate of 
insurance made any difference to the level of cover held by Ms P. 
Ive considered what Ms P has said about the medical declaration and Ive reviewed a 
transcript of the telephone call between her and IPA on 21 May 2020. Im satisfied the 
medical declaration accurately records the questions asked and answers given about Ms Ps 
disc herniation. IPA explained during the call on 21 May 2020 that hyperacusis wasnt 
appearing as a separate medical condition on its screening system, but that it had been 
noted and screened for. So, Im satisfied both the medical declaration and the medical 
conditions noted on the May 2020 certificate of insurance were accurate. 
Ive reviewed a transcript of a telephone call between Ms P and IPA on 22 May 2020 and 
Ive listed to recordings of two telephone calls between Ms P and IPA that took place later 
the same month. I understand Ms P was frustrated and she feels IPAs staff were 
unprofessional and didnt listen to her concerns but, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont 
think IPA spoke to Ms P inappropriately or prevented her from raising a complaint. IPA 
wasnt obliged to offer Ms P any discount on her renewal quote. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms P, but I wont be asking IPA to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman