DRN-2037447
The complaint
Mr F complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr F had a motor policy under which Ageas was responsible for dealing with claims. Where I 
refer to Ageas, I include the collection driver, the repairer and others for whose actions I hold 
Ageas responsible.
In relation to an incident on 16 March 2020, Mr F made a claim to Ageas for damage to his 
vehicle. It arranged for a recovery company to collect the vehicle. The recovery company 
filled in a form labelled as a collection note indicating damage to the right-hand side of the 
vehicle. The recovery company delivered the vehicle to a repairer. 
When he got it back, Mr F complained that the vehicle had damage on the left side of the 
rear bumper.
Mr F complained to Ageas. It wrote a final response letter in early April saying that the 
damage was present before collection of the vehicle and the damage was dated.
Unhappy with that, Mr F brought his complaint to us the same day.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that it 
was unreasonable for Ageas to reach the conclusion that it wasnt responsible for the 
damage.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The recovery company did a damage report. Both parties signed it before the 
company moved the car. 
The report shouldve contained all damage prior to the vehicle being taken into the 
recovery company's possession. 
The report shows that there was no damage on the left-hand side bumper.
After moving the vehicle, the recovery driver took a picture of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The incident on 16 March was one in which Mr F reported that an unknown driver had 
strayed out of the lane to Mr Fs right and clipped that side of his vehicle. Theres no 
suggestion that this incident damaged the left side of Mr Fs rear bumper.
When the recovery driver collected the vehicle from Mr Fs home, he filled in a collection 
note. He and Mr Fs mother signed it. I agree that it noted damage to the right side of his car 
but not the left of the rear bumper. 
But the driver also took at least one photograph of the vehicle on the driveway. That 
photograph confirms Mr Fs point that the vehicle was dirty. But it also shows damage to the 
left side rear bumper.
Mr F has suggested that the driver took the photograph immediately after causing the 
damage to the bumper. But he hasnt said that he or his mother saw the damage happen. 
I can understand that Mr F was disappointed to receive his vehicle back with damage to the 
rear bumper.
But I consider that Mr F has fallen short of showing that the collection driver caused that 
damage. I find it more likely that the damage had happened in an incident that was unrelated 
to the incident on 16 March and before the day Ageas collected the vehicle.
I dont find that Ageas was responsible for causing that damage. In the absence of a 
separate claim, I dont find Ageas responsible for fixing that damage.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman