DRN-4231150
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by Intelligent Pensions Ltd (IPL) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension 
arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr J approached IPL in early 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr J was 
referred to IPL by his existing financial adviser because they didnt hold the necessary 
regulatory permissions to advise on DB pension transfers. 
IPL completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Js circumstances and objectives. 
Amongst other things this recorded that Mr J was married; he was working; he was 53; he 
owned his own home, which had an outstanding interest only mortgage of around £70,000; 
he owned another property; he was due a potential inheritance of around £70,000; and he 
had no other assets or liabilities. IPL also carried out an assessment of Mr Js attitude to risk, 
which it deemed to be medium to high. 
On 1 April 2016 IPL advised Mr J to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension. It 
said the transfer would be made to a cash-based account whereupon Mr Js existing 
financial adviser would provide advice on the investment funds the proceeds should be 
invested in. In summary the suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
To provide Mr J with control over his pension
To improve on the pension benefits available in the DB scheme while taking no more 
than a medium to high attitude to risk.
To provide flexibility in how and when Mr J accessed his benefits  it was recorded 
this was essential because Mr J would have variable financial needs.
To provide a greater cash-lump sum than the DB scheme would provide.
To provide better death benefits.
Mr J accepted the recommendation and an amount of around £333,500 was duly transferred 
to Mr Js new personal pension.
Mr J complained in 2022 to IPL about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr J said that on 
reflection he felt that transferring out of the DB scheme had left him in a worse off position  
he felt it was better for him to have remained in his DB scheme.
IPL didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. In summary it said its advice was based on a letter Mr J 
produced at the time which clearly set out what Mr J wanted to do with his pension and that 
he was prepared to accept investment risk to provide better returns than remaining in the DB 
scheme. It said Mr Js objectives of wanting to take the maximum tax-free cash to reduce his 
mortgage and take varying levels of income couldnt be achieved by remaining in the DB 
scheme. It also said that the transferred funds were initially invested in cash  in accordance 
with its usual practice when working with another adviser  before Mr Js adviser 
recommended suitable investments for the proceeds.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr J referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required IPL to pay compensation. In summary they said they 
didnt think Mr J was prepared to accept a medium to high approach to investment risk  but 
in any event they didnt think the transfer was financially viable given the growth rates IPL 
said were required to match Mr Js DB scheme benefits at 65. They said Mr J didnt have 
any capacity for loss given he had no other significant assets or other pension provision. And 
they said there were no other compelling reasons to support a transfer  higher death 
benefits available from a personal pension didnt outweigh the reduction in benefits Mr J 
would likely face in retirement and Mr J didnt need to access his tax-free cash and repay his 
mortgage at this time. They said Mr J shouldve been advised to remain in his DB scheme 
and they felt Mr J wouldve followed that advice.
IPL disagreed. It said that it believed we didnt have the power to consider the complaint 
because it had been brought out of time. It also said it believed the advice was suitable and 
in Mr Js best interests. 
I havent gone into detail here about the arguments IPL put forward to support its position on 
jurisdiction because Ive already decided, and IPL has accepted, that Mr Js complaint has 
not been brought out of time and it is one we can consider.
In terms of the merits of the complaint  in summary IPL said that it disagreed Mr Js 
capacity for loss was low. It said Mr J had an investment property, he had a potential 
inheritance and he and his wife were due state pensions giving them an income in excess of 
their stated need of £12,000 in retirement. IPL also said Mr Js appetite for risk, which it 
maintains was medium to high further supports its view about his capacity for loss not being 
low.
It said its recommendation was based on Mr Js handwritten note which said he wanted 
access to his pension as soon as possible. It said Mr J planned to use the funds within 18 
months to part repay his mortgage as well as purchase a campervan to allow him and his 
wife to go travelling while they were still fit and young. It said this was not something that 
could have been delayed. It said it disagreed with the investigator that providing Mr J with 
greater control and flexibility were simply stock motives. It said Mr Js handwritten note is 
clear that this is what Mr J wanted. It said he also wanted to invest the monies as his 
advisers saw fit.
IPL said that the advice in relation to the investment strategy and whether Mr Js funds were 
invested properly is not its responsibility  the responsibility for this lies with Mr Js existing 
financial adviser who was providing the investment strategy post-transfer. It said if Mr J 
wants to pursue any complaint about the investment strategy, he should direct this to his 
existing financial adviser. IPL said it wanted to draw the ombudsmans attention to DISP 
3.5.2G which essentially says that the ombudsman may tell a complainant to direct their 
concerns to another party.
In summary IPL said the transfer was clearly in Mr Js best interests; it did not simply refer to 
a combination of stock motives when forming its recommendation the transfer; it considered 
Mr Js needs, which was documented at the time; and any purported issues arising following 
the transfer are not its responsibility. This is because it said it made it clear to Mr J that it 
would not be overseeing the investment strategy following the transfer, so it would not be fair 
to have to compensate Mr J for any losses he may have suffered. The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IPL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IPL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
IPL carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Js pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. Mr J was 53 (soon to be 54) at the time of the advice and he had no definitive plans on when 
he wanted to retire. The critical yield required to match Mr Js benefits at age 65 (Mr Js 
scheme normal retirement age) was 5.3% if he took a full pension and 4.2% if he took tax-
free cash and a reduced pension. 
This compares with the discount rate of 4.3% per year for 11 years to retirement in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Js 
recorded Medium to High attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there 
would be little point in Mr J giving up the guarantees available to them through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. 
Firstly, IPL categorised Mr Js attitude to risk as Medium to High  a risk appetite it says it 
maintains was right and has pointed to the handwritten note Mr J wrote at the time which 
says, My pension is important to me and I want to improve the [benefits] and to do so I 
accept there will be risk. 
But Im not persuaded that Ideal carried out anything that can reasonably be described as an 
assessment or interrogation of Mr Js risk appetite. Arriving at the level of risk indicated on 
the advice paperwork simply involved Mr J (or the adviser on his behalf) circling Medium to 
High in answer to the question: When investing what level of risk are you normally prepared 
to take in order to achieve improved performance? There was no description or explanation 
of the different risk categories Mr J could choose from or any further questions to truly 
understand Mr Js attitudes towards investing his pension monies. From what IPL recorded 
at the time, Mr J had no prior investment experience, so it doesnt seem likely that he had a 
level or risk that he was normally prepared to take and Im not persuaded he wouldve 
reasonably appreciated or fully understood the different risk categories either. Just because 
Mr J indicated in the handwritten note that he accepted there would be risk in investing, does 
not, in my view, automatically translate to him having a Medium to High attitude to risk. In 
my view IPL failed to properly assess and question the level of risk Mr J was prepared to 
take.
In my view, given Mr Js age, the fact he had no prior investment experience and/or 
knowledge, coupled with the fact that his DB pension represented the only private pension 
provision he had, which would form the majority of his overall retirement income, I think a 
more appropriate level of risk was at best Medium but more likely Low to Medium. 
So with this in mind, given the lowest critical yield was 4.2% assuming Mr J took a reduced 
pension with a cash lump sum, I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits available to 
Mr J through his DB scheme at retirement, as a result of transferring and investing in line 
with either a Low to Medium or even a Medium attitude to risk, was limited. In my view to 
have made the transfer worthwhile and to have come close to improving on the benefits 
available to Mr J wouldve required him to take a greater level of risk than I think he was 
reasonably prepared to take.
I would add here that Im also mindful IPL did not recommend the investment funds / 
strategy to be adopted with Mr Js transferred pension funds. I think this means it wasnt 
possible for IPL to give suitable advice on the transfer without knowing what Mr J wanted to 
do with his funds once he transferred out. It is my view that IPL needed to consider the 
suitability of the intended investment in order to consider the overall suitability of a transfer to a new pension arrangement. I will refer to this important point again later on. 
But in the context of financial viability and the relevance of the critical yield figures, because 
IPL simply used a generic investment product in its analysis rather than the actual product 
and investment funds Mr Js pension monies would be invested in, I dont think the critical 
yields IPL produced can be wholly relied upon as being representative of the return needed 
to replicate Mr Js DB scheme benefits. I say this primarily because IPL did not know the 
charges that Mr J would incur following the investment fund recommendation his existing 
adviser was going to make. So its possible the charges would be higher than those IPL 
assumed in its analysis, which means the critical yield figures would also be higher. I dont 
think IPL considered this or made this clear to Mr J.
I can see that IPL has argued Mr Js capacity for loss was not low as the investigator 
concluded. It says Mr J was not entirely reliant on his DB scheme pension and had other 
means of financing his retirement. It has pointed to the other assets it recorded Mr J had at 
the time including an investment property worth £100,000, a potential inheritance of £70,000 
and both he and his wife were due state pensions of around £8,000 each.  
Firstly it appears that IPL has assumed the second property recorded on the fact-find was an 
investment property  it did not record it as such at the time and Mr J has said it was not.
Mr J might have been expecting a potential inheritance, but he hadnt received this at the 
time. Mr J still had an outstanding mortgage, he did not have any other private pension 
provision and he had no other significant cash or investment-based assets. Mr J and his wife 
might have been entitled to a full state pension, but Im not persuaded this means Mr J could 
afford to absorb loss on his private pension. In my view Mr Js indicated income need in 
retirement of £12,000 was on the low side and I think it is likely he would be reliant on his DB 
scheme income to meet his needs throughout retirement.
In any event, it is my view that the opportunity to improve on the benefits available to Mr J 
through his DB scheme by transferring was limited. And for this reason alone a transfer out 
of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Js best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean 
a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below. 
Flexibility, higher tax-free cash lump sum and income need
IPL has referred to, and made much of the fact, that its advice was based on what Mr J said 
his needs and objectives were for his pension and so it was suitable. And in support of this it 
has referred to the handwritten note in which Mr J explained his intentions for his pension 
and what was important to him. And this included wanting to take control of his pension, 
improve on his DB scheme benefits including death benefits and he wanted access to a 
cash lump sum as soon as possible. 
It's not clear to me when Mr J wrote this note or the circumstances / context in which it was 
written. But in any event IPL wasnt there to just transact what Mr J might have thought he 
wanted or seemed like a good idea to him. Yet I think this is precisely what IPL did. In my 
view IPLs reasons for recommending the transfer simply reflected back Mr Js wishes hed 
written in the note. But the advisers role and obligation was to really understand what Mr J 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests. 
But I think IPL failed to do so. Ill explain why. 
IPLs recommendation referred to Mr Js preference to have flexibility to control the level of 
income he took from his pension from year to year. It went on to say that: Indeed flexibility is 
essential for you as you will have financial needs which will be variable.But Im not persuaded that Mr J required flexibility in retirement. IPL does not appear to have 
made any attempt to understand from Mr J and document why his financial needs would 
vary in retirement and so why he needed flexibility. All IPL recorded was that Mr Js income 
need in retirement was £12,000, which would suggest his income need was fixed. It strikes 
me that flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal 
pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Js.
Mr J indicated in his handwritten note that he wanted access to a cash lump sum as soon as 
possible  so perhaps he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier than his 
normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. But Im not 
persuaded that he did.
Mr J indicated that he wanted to use some of the cash lump sum to repay or part repay his 
mortgage. But while I accept repayment of debt can be beneficial, I dont think it was 
essential that Mr J used his tax-free cash to repay his mortgage at this time. Mr J said that 
he had no plans to retire, so his ability to continue to service his mortgage wasnt likely to 
change. And while his mortgage redemption date was in 2020 and his mortgage was on an 
interest-only basis, I wouldve expected IPL to have explored the alternatives available to 
Mr J before recommending he make an irreversible decision to transfer his DB pension to 
help achieve things. 
For example, I think it was reasonable for IPL to have recommended Mr J speak with his 
mortgage lender to investigate the possibility of extending the term of his mortgage given his 
intention to continue to work. IPL couldve also explored with Mr J the possibility of him 
moving his mortgage to a repayment basis to facilitate repayment of the capital and interest 
between now and his likely retirement date, which Mr J intimated was still many years away. 
Alternatively IPL couldve explored in more detail the probability and likely timing of the 
inheritance Mr J indicated he was expecting, which was around the same amount as Mr Js 
outstanding mortgage. I think this couldve been considered as a source of Mr Js mortgage 
repayment. 
Either way, Mr Js mortgage term was still four years away - so I dont think there was a 
pressing need for him to act immediately and make an irreversible decision to transfer his 
DB scheme benefits to help achieve things.
Mr J also indicated that he wanted to use some of the tax-free cash to purchase a 
campervan and go travelling. I dont think this can reasonably be considered as essential or 
a compelling reason to justify early access to Mr Js pension benefits. This might have been 
something that Mr J wanted to do, but I think it was incumbent on IPL to deter Mr J from 
doing this and explain that it wasnt in his best interests to transfer his pension to achieve 
this. Again, I think IPL shouldve explored the alternatives with Mr J - for example exploring 
the possibility of borrowing the money instead or indeed ultimately recommending that Mr J 
delay his plans until he decided to retire and take his pension benefits.
Turning to Mr Js income need  Mr J indicated that his income need in retirement was 
£12,000 a year. I said above that I think this was on the low side given Mr J was married. IPL 
doesnt appear to have conducted a thorough income and expenditure in retirement analysis 
in arriving at this amount.
But if Mr J took benefits from the DB scheme at 65, according to IPL he would be entitled to 
an annual income of just over £14,700. And this wouldve met Mr Js retirement needs as 
noted in the advice paperwork.
Overall, I think Mr J couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the DB scheme and I dont think it was in Mr Js best interests for him to transfer his pension just to 
have flexibility, that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
IPL also recommended the transfer on the basis that Mr J would have access to better death 
benefits.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr J. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr J might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr J about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  it is not a legacy planning tool. And I dont think 
IPL explored to what extent Mr J was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr J 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr J predeceased her. I dont think IPL made the value of this benefit clear 
enough to Mr J. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, 
IPL should not have encouraged Mr J to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr J genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think IPL 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. This neednt have involved looking at cover based 
on the transfer value. In my view the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr J how much 
he would ideally like to leave to his spouse, and this couldve been explored on a whole of 
life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be cheaper to provide. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control over pension  break ties with his ex-employer
I think Mr Js desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr J was not an 
experienced investor and Ive seen nothing to suggest he had an interest in or the 
knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own  indeed his existing advisers 
were going to manage this aspect of things for him. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr J  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr J. But as I said 
earlier on, IPL wasnt there to simply transact what Mr J might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr J needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr J was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. In my view, Mr J shouldnt have been advised to transfer 
out of the scheme just to repay his mortgage that was affordable and would likely continue to 
be so, and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees 
associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think IPL shouldve advised Mr J to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr J would've gone ahead anyway, against IPL's 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr J wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against IPLs advice. I say this because Mr J was not an 
experienced investor or in my view someone who possessed the requisite skill, knowledge 
or confidence to go against the advice they were given, particularly in complex pension 
matters. I believe Mr J was had no more than a medium attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for all of Mr Js private retirement provision. So, if IPL had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Js concerns about his death benefits or his desire to break ties 
with his ex-employer were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a 
professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it 
was suitable for him or in his best interests. If IPL had explained that Mr J could meet all of 
his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. Id add here that I dont think the handwritten note Mr J wrote around the time of the 
advice is persuasive evidence in itself that he wouldve gone ahead against IPLs advice. So, 
I dont think Mr J would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme. 
In light of the above, I think IPL should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Responsibility for loss
I said earlier on that IPL did not recommend the investment strategy to be adopted with 
Mr Js transferred pension monies. Ive said why I think this means IPL was not in a position 
to recommend the transfer as being suitable. But IPL has also said that any complaint Mr J 
has about the investment strategy is not the responsibility of IPL and it is also not 
responsible for any losses Mr J has incurred. It says Mr J should direct any concerns he has 
about this to his existing financial adviser who made the investment recommendation. In 
addition IPL has referred to DISP 3.5.2G which says: The Ombudsman may inform the 
complainant that it might be appropriate to complain against some other respondent.
With this in mind Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for 
compensating the loss to IPL. 
But, in the circumstances, I think it is fair to make an award for the whole loss against IPL.
As I have decided, IPL should not have recommended Mr J transfer out of his DB scheme. 
And it was only as a result of IPLs involvement that Mr J transferred the funds held in his DB 
scheme to the personal pension. I consider IPLs role was fundamental, since the eventual 
investments were wholly reliant on the funds being transferred first. And if that hadnt 
happened, Mr J couldnt have invested as he did. So, in my view, the entirety of Mr Js loss 
stems from IPLs unsuitable advice to transfer away from his DB scheme.To expand on the point I made earlier on - the FCA has also made it clear that in order to 
give suitable advice on a transfer or switch of pension benefits, the advice has to include the 
suitability of the underlying investments. In this case IPL didnt know how Mr Js existing 
adviser would be investing his funds once the transfer completed. While it wasnt wrong for 
the two firms to work together, in my view IPL needed to do more to ensure that the two 
firms worked closer together to give suitable pension transfer advice to Mr J.
So, overall I think holding IPL responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair  
compensation in this case.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
IPL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, my understanding is that Mr J has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at 
present. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, 
as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Js acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IPL should:
calculate and offer Mr J redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr J before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr J receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr J accepts IPLs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr J for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Js end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr J as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, IPL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that consumers 
would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Js likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Intelligent Pensions Ltd 
to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Intelligent Pensions Ltd pays Mr J the balance.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Intelligent Pensions Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman