DRN-2609845
The complaint
Mr W complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim under his 
travel insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr W held a silver single trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV, covering himself and
his two children. The policy was bought online on 27 February 2020.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential
international travel due to Covid-19 from 17 March 2020, so Mr W and his children were
unable to go on a planned trip abroad.
Mr W made a claim with URV for the cost of one nights non-refundable accommodation,
where he and his children had been due to stay on 15 April 2020.
URV said Mr Ws claim wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of his policy. It said
the cancellation section of his policy listed specific reasons for which URV would provide
cover, and the circumstances surrounding Mr Ws claim didnt fit within these reasons.
Unhappy, Mr W brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she didnt think it was fair or
reasonable for URV to decline Mr Ws claim. URV didnt agree with our investigators
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr Ws complaint in January 2021. In it, I said:
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for
Business) say;
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to;
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its
customer;
handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an
informed decision about the arrangements proposed. Appropriate information includes the
information that must be set out in an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which
gives customers an at a glance summary of their cover. This includes a summary of the
insurance cover, including the main risks insured, the insured sum and, where applicable,
the geographical scope and summary of excluded risks.
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions 
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
Ive looked at the documents relevant to Mr Ws policy, namely the terms and conditions and
the IPID. Ive accessed the relevant IPID for Mr Ws policy from the website through which
he bought the cover.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy, on the opening page entitled About this policy,
set out some general Criteria for purchase. These Criteria for purchase apply to all
sections of the policy and come before the more detailed and specific exclusions and
inclusions of each section of cover. Under Criteria for purchase, Mr Ws policy says:
This insurance will only be valid if, at the time you bought the policy, everyone
named on the insurance schedule
Are not travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time
of your departure
Similarly, page 2 of the IPID says, under the heading Where am I covered:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For
further details, visit: www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion.
On the date Mr W and his children were due to depart on their trip, the FCO was advising
against all but essential travel to their intended destination. So, if Mr W had disregarded
FCO advice and gone ahead and travelled anyway, his policy would have been invalidated
and hed have had no cover whatsoever under his policy. Mr W and his children wouldnt
have had the benefit of multiple sections of cover including missed departure, lost or stolen
valuables or emergency medical treatment abroad. So, in effect, if Mr W had travelled then
his policy would have been of no use to him and his children.
Page 7 of the terms and conditions say cover is provided for cancellation of a trip in the
following circumstances;
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the person
you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative
accommodation is not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces had your leave orders
cancelled
Mr W cancelled his trip because the FCO had advised against all but essential travel to hisintended destination. This isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for which
cancellation cover is provided.
This means Mr Ws claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of his policy.
Mr W wasnt covered under his policy when he followed FCO advice and cancelled his trip
due to the FCO exclusion set out under Criteria for purchase. In effect, the terms and
conditions of Mr Ws policy meant he had no cover whatsoever if he did travel against FCO
advice, but also no cover if he cancelled his trip because of FCO advice.
Although that is what the terms and conditions say, I need to consider what I think is fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint. In doing so, Ive had regard to the
industry rules and guidance outlined above, as well as to relevant law (including the unfair
terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
Having done so, I dont think its fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Mr W to have no
cover when he had to cancel his holiday due to a change in FCO advice after hed bought
his policy.
Ive taken into account all the arguments URV has made about Mr Ws policy. I understand
Mr W purchased silver cover. URV says increased cover may have been available under a
more expensive, similarly branded policy but, based on the information available online
about these other policies, Im not satisfied its likely Mr W would have been able to buy such
a policy which covered cancellation in the circumstances he found himself in. I accept that
the FCO exclusion in Mr Ws policy might not have been intended for the unprecedented
Covid-19 scenario and I understand URV says Mr W may never have intended to, or indeed
have been able to, travel abroad because of the FCO advice in place at the time of his
intended departure date. I also note there was a 14-day cooling off period for Mr W to
consider the cover provided under the policy after hed bought it.
However, I dont think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from the FCO
advising against travel was clearly sign-posted to Mr W, and I think the implications of this
werent made clear to Mr W. I think this has left Mr W in an unfair position and Ill explain
why.
The FCO exclusion set out in the Criteria for purchase section of the policy doesnt say that
no cover is provided for cancellation of a holiday in the event of FCO advice changing
between the date the policy was purchased and the policyholders date of departure. The
IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the policy in
a way thats easy to understand. However, I dont think the FCO exclusion is prominent in
the IPID, and cancellation claims due to FCO advice against all but essential travel arent
included in the What is not insured section of the IPID. The IPID only contains the general
exclusion that policyholders wont be covered if they travel against FCO advice.
Page 1 of Mr Ws policy terms and conditions contain a summary of whats covered under
the policy under the heading This is what you get. Amongst other things, this says that the
policyholder may claim up to £3,000 if they are unable to go on their trip. Similar information
is contained in the IPID.
The terms and conditions, also at page 1, state at the top of the page that the summary table
is designed to show you what cover may be available under this insurance and is subject to
the terms, conditions and exclusions detailed in the policy. The IPID also refers the
consumer to their policy documentation for the full terms and conditions of the contract.
So, a consumer would need to go further into the detail of the policy wording to knowwhether they could claim if they had to cancel their trip because of changes to FCO travel
guidance after theyd bought their policy.
When a consumer reaches page 7 of their policy documentation, which sets out the cover
available if they are unable to go on their trip, claims arising from a change in FCO advice
arent listed as a specific exclusion. Rather, claims for this reason are not listed as included.
Overall, I dont think the fact that theres no cover under this policy for cancellation claims in
the event of FCO advice changing is clearly brought to the consumers attention.
I dont think its fair or reasonable to expect customers to be required to read the terms and
conditions thoroughly from beginning to end in order to understand important issues
regarding what is and isnt covered. I think a customer would be entitled to expect a
restriction like the exclusion of cover for cancellation claims relating to a change in FCO
advice to be more prominent (for example, to be in the IPID).
I also think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from a change in FCO
advise isnt transparent enough. The section of the policy setting out what will be covered if
the customer is unable to travel, on page 7, is in plain English. But, the FCO exclusion set
out in the Criteria for purchase section of cover isnt presented in the same place. So, I
dont think it would be obvious to a policyholder that they would have no cover whatsoever
under the policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their destination after they purchased
their policy. Even with a cooling-off period, I think a consumer might not be able to easily
understand the full effect of the policy. I think the way the cancellation section of cover and
the FCO exclusion under Criteria for purchase are presented separately means their
combined effect isnt clear.
In the circumstances, I think this is unfair and results in a significant imbalance between
Mr W and URV. Mr W was left without any cover at all when the FCO advice changed, and
this shifted the rights and obligations under the contract significantly in URVs favour. I think
that the terms and conditions didnt properly take Mr Ws interests into account, and Im not
persuaded Mr W would have freely agreed to a policy that left him without any cover in these
circumstances if hed realised that was how the policy would operate.
So, overall, I think the way the information about the cover available under this policy is
presented is not fair, and URV isnt acting in the best interests of its customer when
presenting the information in this way.
Therefore, I think the fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances is for URV to treat
Mr Ws claim as covered under the cancellation section of his policy, and to assess the
claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Mr W accepted my provisional decision but URV didnt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reviewed all the additional comments URV has made in response to my 
provisional decision. Ive summarised and addressed what I think are URVs key points.
cover for cancellation due to a change in FCO travel advice would have been 
available for Mr W to purchase within URVs range of products.In my provisional decision I said I wasnt satisfied Mr W would have been able to buy a more 
expensive, similarly branded policy which covered cancellation in the circumstances he 
found himself in. 
Mr W bought a silver policy through a branded website. Based on the information available 
on that branded website about the travel insurance policies sold at the time Mr W bought his 
insurance, neither the gold nor the platinum versions of the policy cover cancellation 
claims arising from a change in FCO travel advice. While a force majeure extension was 
available for purchase providing cover for an insureds inability to travel in certain 
circumstances due to delays, the terms and conditions of the force majeure extension cover 
are silent on changes to FCO travel advice. 
I fully accept that travel insurance policies which cover cancellation claims arising from a 
change in FCO travel advice are widely available on the market. However, based on the 
information Ive seen, Im not satisfied that Mr W would have been able to buy such a policy 
on the same branded website where he purchased his silver cover. 
the change in FCO travel advice wasnt the proximate cause of the cancellation of 
Mr Ws trip. The actions of the UK government and the actions of the government at 
Mr Ws intended destination in response to the Covid-19 pandemic were the true 
cause of the cancellation and such actions are not insured perils under Mr Ws policy.
The FCO advised against all non-essential international travel on 17 March 2020 for an initial 
period of 30 days (which covered the date of the loss Mr W is claiming for). Mr W told us he 
cancelled his trip because of the change in FCO travel advice. 
Im satisfied Mr W cancelled his trip because of this change in advice, rather than because of 
any actions by the government at his intended destination in closing leisure facilities there. 
I understand the Health Protection (Coronavirus Restrictions) Regulations 2020 
subsequently prohibited Mr W from leaving his home without reasonable excuse. However, 
Im satisfied the change in FCO travel advice on 17 March 2020 was the event which 
triggered Mr Ws decision to cancel his trip, even if other events may also have given him a 
reason to cancel his travel plans.   
URV is not relying on the FCO exclusion to decline Mr Ws claim, it is relying on the 
fact that the circumstances leading to the claim are not listed insured perils.
I understand URV is not seeking to rely on the FCO exclusion to turn down Mr Ws claim. 
However, this doesnt prevent me from making a finding about the clarity and transparency 
of the FCO exclusion or the effect of the combined presentation of the IPID and the policy 
wording on Mr W. Under the FCAs Dispute Resolution Rules, I have an investigative remit 
to determine complaints based on what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. In any event, Mr W has specifically raised the argument that his 
policy wouldnt have covered him if he had travelled against FCO advice and that this is 
unfair.
URV was honouring cover for people who were abroad and didnt want to come 
back, so its not accurate to say Mr W would have had no cover if hed travelled.
The Criteria for purchase section of Mr Ws policy says his insurance will only be valid if he 
is not travelling against FCO advice at the time of his departure. Mr W would have been 
travelling against FCO advice at the time of his departure if hed gone ahead with his trip as 
planned. Therefore, Im satisfied that the wording of the policy means Mr W would have had 
no cover under his policy if hed travelled.  Policyholders who travelled abroad before the FCO advice changed and who were not 
travelling against FCO advice at the time of their departure were in a different situation to 
that of Mr W. 
Mr W was not unable to go on his trip. Taking into account the level of public health 
care available in his intended destination as well as the proximity of that country and 
the available travel options back to the UK, Mr W instead abandoned his trip. There 
is only one insured peril under the abandonment section of cover.
The section of Mr Ws policy entitled If you are unable to go on your trip says:
If this happened:
You had to cancel your trip because the following unexpectedly happened before you 
left home 
Mr W cancelled his trip before he left home so Im satisfied this is the correct section of the 
policy for his claim to be considered under. This is also the section of cover under which 
URV originally assessed and declined Mr Ws claim. 
The wording of the abandonment section of cover which URV has now referred to is entitled 
If you decide to abandon your travel plans and says:
If this happened:
You decided that you didnt not want to go on the trip because your transport 
providers service from your international departure point was delayed for 24 hours or 
more.
Abandonment cover usually only applies when the policyholder is already at their 
international departure point. And I think this is also the case under Mr Ws policy, as the 
terms and conditions state there is no cover for abandonment claims where the policyholder 
hasnt taken all reasonable steps to ensure they checked in/arrived at the boarding gate on 
time. Mr W never travelled to his international departure point, so I dont think the 
abandonment section of cover is the appropriate section of the policy for his claim to be 
assessed under. 
Even if were satisfied that Mr Ws claim should be considered under the abandonment 
section of cover, my findings on the way the policy cover and exclusions are set out in the 
policy wording and the IPID would remain unchanged.   
it is not possible to list all the perils excluded from a specified perils policy and 
anyone reading the policy would understand they are only covered if one of the 
specified perils occurred and not otherwise. The IPID only has finite room and, even 
accepting that FCO advice was the proximate cause of the claim, the fact that the 
policy does not apply to travel contrary to FCO advice is set out on both page 2 of the 
IPID and on the first page of the policy with a red warning triangle.
I accept that its not practical for policy terms and conditions  or an IPID  to list every 
possible insured peril and/or every possible exclusion. However, the question Im 
considering in this case is whether I think the specific exclusion from cover of cancellation 
claims arising from a change in FCO travel advice was clearly sign-posted to Mr W. And I 
dont think it was. 
I think the combined effect of the documentation in this case means it was unlikely to be clear or obvious to a reasonable policyholder that they would have no cover whatsoever if 
they travelled against FCO advice but they would also have no cover whatsoever if they 
cancelled their travel plans on the basis of FCO advice changing in between buying the 
policy and their intended departure date.  
ICOBS 8 does not extend to re-writing the policy because that is not treating 
customers fairly and my provisional findings amount to the retrospective imposition of 
mandatory minimum insurance terms, which the Financial Ombudsman Service does 
not have the legal power to do.
My powers are to determine complaints based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a particular case and I can require URV to take such steps in relation to Mr 
W as I consider just and appropriate. 
Its up to an insurer to decide what level of risk it is willing to cover in return for the payment 
of a premium. My provisional findings do not purport to set out a requirement that URV must 
provide cover for cancellation claims in the event of a change to FCO travel advice. 
Instead, my provisional findings concluded that the way the information about this policy was 
presented together with the effect of the FCO exclusion on the policy coverage provided, 
mean it would be fair and reasonable for URV to accept Mr Ws claim in the circumstances 
of his complaint. 
the appropriate remedy for a complaint about the adequacy of the IPID would be to 
direct a refund of the premiums paid on the basis that the particular policy would not 
have been purchased.
Ive considered whether a refund of premiums would be a fair and reasonable outcome in 
the circumstances, and I dont think it would. Mr W clearly wished to purchase travel 
insurance to cover his trip abroad. If the information about how the cover available under this 
policy operated had been fairly presented to Mr W, I think its likely hed have purchased a 
different policy instead. Im satisfied hed have been able to obtain cover elsewhere (other 
than through the branded website where he bought his silver policy) which did provide 
cover for the circumstances he found himself. 
For these reasons, as well as for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for URV to treat Mr Ws claim as covered under the 
cancellation section of his policy. 
Putting things right
URV needs to put things right by accepting Mr Ws claim under the cancellation section of 
his cover, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy including any excess 
and/or policy limits.   
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and I direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Leah NagleOmbudsman