DRN-4215472
The complaint
Mr K complains about how long it took to remortgage a Buy To Let (BTL) property with 
Accord Mortgages Limited. Mr K said there were delays, so he wanted Accord to reimburse 
what he paid while he was briefly on his old lenders Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
What happened
Mr K first complained while his remortgage was being processed. He felt his remortgage 
should have been completed on 1 January 2022. He initially said the lawyers appointed by 
Accord were the cause of the delay. He said they got Accords offer on 23 December 2021, 
and the only thing outstanding was his redemption statement from his old lender. Mr K said 
that lender always issues this within a few hours, so he said the lawyers could have 
completed by 1 January, his preferred completion date, but they didnt.
Mr K said because Accords lawyers didnt act promptly, his remortgage didnt take effect 
until 17 January 2022. He wanted Accord or its legal firm to cover the additional costs he 
incurred between 1 January, when he went onto his old lenders SVR, and 17 January, when 
his remortgage completed. And he wanted it to pay compensation on top.
There have been several replies, sent on behalf of Accords legal firm. All of these have 
denied any responsibility for delay in Mr Ks remortgage. Mr K received an apology for times 
when he couldnt get through to the firm. The firm said it had emailed Mr K on 21 December, 
to get the correct address or title number, and he replied the same day. 
The firm passed this information to Accord on 23 December, and said the address on the 
instruction wasnt quite right. The firm chased Accord after the Christmas Bank Holidays, on 
29 December, and spoke to Mr K on 31 December to let him know the mortgage offer was 
outstanding. The revised offer was received from Accord late on 5 December. Completion 
was achieved on 17 January, following receipt of the redemption statement.
The responses said Accord would expect its legal team to complete a standard remortgage 
within 25 working days of receiving the offer, and Mr Ks transaction did complete within 
these expected timescales. It explained why it had sought the information on the exact title 
from Mr K, rather than simply relying on the Land Registry, which isnt always accurate when 
there is more than one title registered under the same address. It said it would never have 
ben possible to meet Mr Ks deadline of 1 January, 4 January was the earliest possible 
completion date after the New Year break. And it maintained that completion on 17 January 
was reasonable, as the law firm only had Mr Ks case from 15 December, and Mr K only 
completed the remortgage questionnaire on 16 December. 
The responses said there was no reason to doubt that Accord was given the right names at 
the start of the application, but the problem was the address used by the lender on the first 
mortgage offer. That address didnt match with the one on the title check carried out by the 
law firm. The firm notified Accord of this, and it amended the offer.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that the legal matters 
were completed well within the 25-day expected timescale. And he couldnt see any 
evidence that Accord caused Mr K a financial loss, or had caused any delay in completion of 
the remortgage. So he said he wouldnt ask Accord to take any steps. 
Mr K wrote back, to say that the complaint was against Accord, not its lawyers. So he said 
wed investigated the wrong issue. Mr K said Accord had misinformed the legal firm about 
the address of the remortgaged property. Mr K said that was Accords fault. 
Mr K said if Accord had sent the right details, the remortgage would have been ready on 24 
December, except for a redemption statement. And he repeated that the old lender would 
have sent that the same day it was requested, so his remortgage could have been done on 
24 December. He said hed given Accord until 4 January, but he didnt think there was any 
excuse for delaying until 17 January. 
Our investigator asked Accord for some more information on this complaint. Accord sent our 
service Mr Ks mortgage application (submitted on 13 December) and the two mortgage 
offers it had issued. It explained that the valuation report was approved on 22 December, the 
first mortgage offer was issued on 22 December, and the second offer was issued, with 
amended details, on 31 December. 
Our investigator considered this additional information, but said he still didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He noted that Accord created a mortgage offer on 22 December 
2021 with the incorrect address. This mistake was spotted, by the legal firm, and a new 
mortgage offer was produced on 31 December 2021 with the correct address on and sent to 
the legal firm. Our investigator said that the mistake on the first offer did cause a slight delay, 
but Accord was able to rectify this within four business days. So he wouldnt ask Accord to 
do anything further. 
Mr K didnt accept that. He said wed ignored his submissions, which showed Accord was at 
fault. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K received a decision in principle from Accord, and decided to proceed with his 
remortgage application. That application was submitted to Accord on 13 December.
I note the property address on this application form, which I understand may have been 
completed by Mr Ks broker, doesnt exactly match the address on the second offer, which 
was accepted as accurate by Accords lawyers. So, although I think Accord did make a 
mistake on the first offer, because it didnt reproduce the address on the application 
accurately, I also think there was still likely to be a short delay at this point, even if Accord 
hadnt made that mistake. Thats because the legal firm would still be likely to have noticed 
that the offer address which had been provided on the application wasnt exactly the same 
as the Land Registry address for the property. 
But I also note that Accord obtained a valuation, and provided its first offer, by 22 December. 
Thats just over a week after Mr K made his application. The law firm pointed out the mistake 
on 23 December 2021, which was the Thursday before Christmas. Accord returned to work on 29 December, and issued a revised offer on 31 December, which was a Friday, and New 
Years Eve. The legal firm then received and actioned this after the New Year break. 
Mr Ks remortgage was entirely completed by 17 January, which is a total of 23 working days 
inclusive, after his remortgage application was made. 
I have to assess this complaint by refence to what is, in my view, fair and reasonable. I 
havent been able to see that the initial delay here could actually have been avoided, even if 
it wasnt for Accords mistake  because the address on Mr Ks application didnt match the 
Land Registry. But even if I thought it was Accords fault that Mr Ks first mortgage offer was 
incorrect, and had to be amended, I still dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
ask Accord to pay Mr K costs and compensation in this case. Thats because I think Accord 
and its contracted legal firm did, overall, provide Mr K with a reasonably prompt response to 
his remortgage request. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Accord to pay 
compensation in this case, because the response could, in theory, have been faster. 
I know Mr K will be disappointed by this decision, but I dont think his complaint should be 
upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman