DRN-2816299
The complaint
Mrs A complains that NewDay Ltd set up an arrangement on her account but didnt take the 
repayment and later passed her account to a collection business.
What happened
Mrs A says she was a victim of domestic violence and told NewDay about her difficulties in a 
telephone call of 15 January 2020. She says she set up an arrangement of £60 a month 
which she believes was via direct debit and thought the payment would automatically be 
taken. Mrs A says the debt was passed to a collection business and that she didnt receive 
letters from NewDay as she was not at her home address. She questions why NewDay 
didnt try and call her and also says it didnt deal sympathetically with her position.
NewDay says Mrs A told it during the call of 15 January 2020 that she was back in her home 
and that it agreed a three-month plan with her. It says it agreed to take the first payment by 
debit card and didnt mention a direct debit or that it would collect the other payments. 
NewDay says it sent a number of letters to Mrs A about the missed payments and tried to 
call her. It says Mrs A called about this issue on 25 March 2020 but didnt make the next 
required payment at the end of that month. NewDay says it wouldnt have known if Mrs A 
had moved address and was entitled in these circumstances to pass the account to a 
collections business.
Mrs A brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
listened to the January 2020 call and thought Mrs A had said she was back home and had 
access to her mail. The investigator thought the first payment was a one-off payment with no 
mention of a direct debit but accepted there may have been confusion about the next 
payments. The investigator thought in any event Mrs A hadnt made the March required 
payment and thought NewDay had written to Mrs A about the account.
Mrs A doesnt accept that view and in summary says she couldnt go back home as 
anticipated and maintains she asked for the payments to be taken automatically which is 
what she thinks was agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs A will be disappointed by my decision.
I have listened carefully to the crucial telephone call of 15 January 2020 to decide what was 
said and agreed. Im satisfied that Mrs A told NewDay that she was back home and had 
been since the week before. And also told it that matters were all resolved, and she had 
access to her mail. Im satisfied a payment plan for three months was set up and that Mrs A 
was clearly told the first payment could be taken by debit card as a one-off payment for the 
month of January 2020 only. Im also satisfied that Mrs A was told she could set up a 
payment arrangement if she received a letter from NewDay about it and that she was again 
told the payment arrangement by debit card was for January only. I dont think any mention 
was made of a direct debit and I think that NewDay was clear that only the first payment 
would be taken by debit card. So, I dont think NewDay misled Mrs A and I think it was her 
responsibility to make the next two payments.
I have also listened to the call between the parties of 25 March 2020. I think its clear at that 
stage Mrs A knew the payment for February 2020 had not been made and that she was told 
she need to make the payments herself. But I dont think Mrs A paid the March 2020 
required payment which I think suggests she was unable to keep to the agreement.
I have looked at NewDays records and can see it tried to call Mrs A about her account and 
sent a number of letters to her. I appreciate Mrs A says she thought she would have access 
to her home but in fact didnt. But I dont think NewDay could have known about that and I 
have made clear that during the January 2020 call Mrs A told NewDay she was back in 
home and had been since the previous week. I would have expected Mrs A to have told 
NewDay if she was living at a different address and I cant fairly find it made a mistake by 
writing to the address it held on its records.
Overall, Im satisfied that NewDay hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and was entitled 
to make a business decision in these circumstances and pass Mrs As account to a 
collections business. Im satisfied NewDay didnt mislead Mrs A or offer to set up a direct 
debit to collect the payments, which I find were Mrs As responsibility to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman