DRN-1323570
The complaint
Mr A's complained that Tradewise Insurance Company Limited unfairly turned down a claim 
on his motor trade insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A claimed on his policy after being involved in an accident. When discussing the value of 
his car with an engineer, Mr A said his car was a higher specification. Tradewise said          
Mr A said the car had alloys, tinted windows and the exhaust had been changed at some 
point.
Tradewise turned down Mr A's claim. It said the car had been modified and the policy didn't 
cover modified vehicles. Mr A didn't think this was fair and brought his complaint to us. He 
said the parts were from the car's manufacturer. He said he hadn't made any changes to the 
car and didn't think he had to declare them as he thought they were factory fitted. He said 
the engineer hadn't noticed the modifications which supported his position that he hadn't 
noticed them either. 
Our investigator thought Tradewise had acted fairly in turning down Mr A's claim in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr A remained unhappy as he thought his claim 
should be paid. He asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr A's policy say that Tradewise won't cover any damage if a 
vehicle's been modified. That means I need to consider whether it's most likely Mr A's car 
has been modified and whether Tradewise has applied the term in a fair and reasonable 
way. 
The engineer's report says that the known modifications on the car are the tinted windows 
and alloys and exhaust designed for a different model of car. Mr A said he thought these 
were factory fitted, but Tradewise's engineer said Mr A told him the exhaust had been 
changed. I think it's unlikely he would have said that if he thought that was done in the 
factory. The engineer also said that Mr A accepted the windows may have been tinted at a 
later date too. Although Mr A later said the windows were also tinted in the factory. 
I appreciate Tradwise's engineer might not have initially noticed that Mr A's car was 
modified, but he has listed these as modifications on his report. And I haven't seen 
enough from Mr A to persuade me these are standard, factory fitted parts, for this model of 
car. 
I understand Mr A bought the car with the modifications already completed. But the policy 
doesn't cover cars that have been modified. And as I'm satisfied his car's been modified, I'm 
not going to interfere with Tradewise's decision to turn down his claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman