DRN-3975345
The complaint
Mr W complains that Profile Financial Solutions Limited Profile did not meet its agreed 
terms or regulatory obligations because it charged him fees for providing services, in 
particular an annual review, when it did not carry out these reviews. 
What happened
Mr W transferred his pension to Profile in October 2016. No pension reviews were carried 
out between 2017 and 2021.
In August 2022, through his legal representative, Mr W complained to Profile that it had not 
provided him with any services or annual reviews.
Profile considered his complaint and did not uphold it. It said it had offered to provide Mr W 
with annual reviews, which he did not take up. Profile said it emailed Mr W in October 2017, 
September 2018, October 2019, November 2020 and December 2021 offering Mr W a 
review. It said its records showed that Mr W opened the emails but did not respond.
Mr W, again through his legal representative, then complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and did recommend it was upheld. She took 
the view that Mr W was clearly told about the ongoing service charges and was offered an 
annual review from 2017 to December 2021. She was satisfied that Profile had offered to 
provide ongoing services as agreed between the parties back in 2016.
Mr W through his legal representative did not accept our investigators recommendation and 
so Mr Ws complaint comes to me to decide.
 Mr W said through his representative, that it was not fair or reasonable for Profile to charge 
ongoing charges when it had not provided any reviews and the fact reviews were offered did 
not make charging this cost appropriate. It said Mr W had accepted the recommendation to 
transfer on the basis that he would pay after the review took place. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the telephone call in 2016 when the advice was provided. In this call,
the Independent Financial Advisor (IFA) explains, the ongoing service charge will be
0.40% which equates to £35.54 per month, the ongoing service includes  ongoing
support and correspondence, client service team to answer questions, annual review,
help and advice when taking benefits and the monthly monitoring of funds. There is no 
discussion about the fee being paid after a review has taken place. 
Ive also looked at the illustration document which sets out the ongoing service charge. That 
does not say that charges will only be payable after a review has taken place.
Profiles have provided evidence to show they offered to provide Mr W with an annual review 
each year as per the terms and conditions agreed in 2016. It was up to Mr W to ask Profile 
for any other support or guidance he wanted. I cant see that Mr W asked Profile for any 
assistance and he did not respond to its offers to provide an annual review.
I am satisfied that Profile made it clear that there would be an ongoing charge and made 
these services available to Mr W as contractually agreed. The fact that Mr W didnt use 
these services does not lead me to conclude that he should be refunded the charges paid. It 
was open to Mr W to cancel the arrangement if he no longer wanted these services. In my 
view, Profile met its contractual obligations by offering these services to Mr W.
Mr Ws representative said that Profile had not met its regulatory responsibilities because 
following the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) a business can only charge fees if theyre 
providing a service. The primary aim of the RDR was to ensure that customers received 
clear and transparent information about the charges payable. Mr W was clearly and 
transparently told by Profile about the charges payable and the services available for these 
charges. I consider therefore that Profile met its responsibilities from a regulatory 
perspective in relation to providing information about the charges. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman