DRN-3347009
The complaint
Ms G complains about the service received from UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill 
Home Insurance following a claim she submitted under her contents policy.  
What happened
Ms G had a home insurance policy with Churchill. It provided contents cover. 
Ms G says she submitted a claim to Churchill in December 2019 for the loss of her contents 
following a leak and mould damage. 
In March 2020 Churchill arranged for her contents to be removed from the property which 
coincided with the pandemic.
Ms G says Churchill asked her to prepare an inventory of her belongings. She says some of 
her things were in storage costing £600 per month. She says she was led to believe 
Churchill would replace all of her belongings. 
Ms G says she prepared two lists: one for keepsake items and one for replacement items. 
She said when she submitted the inventory for her furniture the case handler at Churchill 
said the claim costs were running high. She said Churchill paid for storage costs, organisers 
costs, and paid for temporary items and clothing, plus removal costs. Ms G says it has now 
said it wont pay the remainder of the claim. 
Churchill mentioned a budget of £10,000 to Ms G but her items were always going to exceed 
that amount. Ms G also says she wasnt aware the cost of storage and the organiser were 
coming out of her budget. 
Ms G kept chasing Churchill to find out when it would be progressing her claim. Ms G says 
there has been a lack of communication from Churchill and she has been provided with 
confusing and conflicting information. 
Ms G says Churchill made it difficult for her to provide it with the evidence it required to 
prove her claim. 
Ms G wants Churchill to reimburse her for her contents and meet the remaining costs it 
originally agreed to cover and so she complained. 
In response Churchill said its specialist carried out a survey in Ms Gs home. It said the 
specialist found evidence of mould spores within the cupboard where the leak was but the 
spores could be attributed to several things including the water damage, household dust, pet 
dander, occupants, or all of those things. It said there were also higher readings on the sofa 
and bed which it agreed to replace. It said tests on the contents revealed there were no 
mould issues. Churchill said once the claims team was made aware of Ms Gs health issues 
it took them into consideration which ultimately directed how Ms Gs claim was handled. 
Ms G wasnt happy with the response from Churchill and so she referred her complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into things and said she thought Churchill were 
responsible for additional distress and disruption caused to Ms G which impacted on her 
wellbeing. The investigator set out a number of steps for Churchill in order to put things right 
for Ms G including returning her contents to her and paying her £1,000 to compensate her 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
Churchill didnt agree and said it was unfair to ask it to cover the storage costs when it had 
tried to progress the claim, and for it to pay compensation when it had tried to treat Ms G 
fairly. Ms G also didnt agree with the investigator. She said she thought the mould exclusion 
didnt apply to the claim because its secondary damage caused by an escape of water. And 
so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a lot of information about the claim Ms G made, and Ive looked through everything 
provided. The detail is well-known to both Ms G and Churchill, so I havent described the 
claim in any great detail here. Ill comment on any relevant evidence where appropriate to 
explain my decision. It is also not my intention to minimise the effect the claim has had on 
Ms G and her physical and mental health. I recognise the impact the matter has had on Ms 
G and I empathise with the difficulties she has clearly faced.
Mould exclusion clause
Like most home insurance policies, Ms Gs provides cover if her contents are damaged by a 
range of insured events. These events are listed in the policy and include storm or flood, 
theft, fire, subsidence, falling trees, and vandalism. I havent seen anything which suggests 
all of Ms Gs contents were damaged by one of the listed events. There isnt any cover if the 
damage is caused by something else.
There are exclusions to the cover provided under the policy. Having reviewed the policy 
documents I can see it says, this policy doesnt cover damage caused by rot, fungus, 
woodworm, beetles, moths, insects or vermin. The policy doesnt set out a definition for 
fungus. Our service will usually think any undefined words should take their ordinary, 
everyday meaning. And so in this case I think the word includes all forms of fungus of which 
mould is one. And so Ms Gs claim for her contents is not covered by the policy. Churchill 
proceeded to deal with Ms Gs claim in order to assist her since Ms G told it she had a mould 
allergy and exposure could make her seriously ill. 
Evidence of loss
Under the terms of the policy it says the customer must, give us any relevant information 
and evidence that we ask for, including proof of ownership or value of the lost or damaged 
item. 
I appreciate Ms G has been trying to obtain evidence such as photographs and receipts 
which has caused her some distress. I dont think it was unreasonable for Churchill to ask for 
further information to substantiate the claim. Under the terms of the policy Churchill is 
entitled to request this. And because there was no indication of the level of loss at the outset 
of the claim, I dont think it was unfair of Churchill to ask for further reasonable information or 
evidence in relation to the claim. 
Settlement of claimOn review of the information provided to me by both parties I think Churchill has done 
enough to try and resolve this matter for Ms G. I can see Churchill tried to work with Ms G 
taking into account her health issues to the best of its abilities. Particularly where the matter 
wasnt covered under the policy. 
Given the policy exclusion Churchill was entitled to reject the claim at the outset. I appreciate 
it has said it didnt to try and assist Ms G during a difficult time but since it got involved the 
matter has been prolonged, contributing to further distress and inconvenience to Ms G. 
Churchill didnt manage Ms Gs expectations well since Ms G was under the impression her 
claim would be paid in full. Had the claim been excluded at the outset Ms G would likely 
have made her own arrangements regarding her belongings. 
Churchill has already covered some costs of the claim including alternative accommodation, 
new essential items for Ms G and some of the storage costs. I think Churchill tried to be fair 
to Ms G in accepting the claim in the first place. But it doesnt have a never-ending liability to 
her or this claim. And so I think it is appropriate to now bring the matter to an end and settle 
things fairly. I am therefore upholding Ms Gs complaint but I realise my directions to put 
things right will disappoint her since Im not requiring Churchill to meet Ms Gs outstanding 
claims for recompense. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for the reasons detailed above.
I require UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Home Insurance to: 
1. Arrange to return Ms Gs contents to her at no further cost to her.
2. Reimburse Ms G for storage costs from 1 April 2021 until the contents are removed 
from storage
3. Add interest, at an annual rate of 8% simple, to (2) above  from the date Ms G paid 
the monies to the date of settlement.
4. Pay the professional organiser and Action Drys outstanding invoices incurred after 9 
December 2019, if outstanding.
5. Alternatively, if Ms G has paid any invoices referred to in (4) then Churchill to 
reimburse her
6. If applicable add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to (5) above  from the date 
Ms G paid the invoices to the date of settlement. 
7. Pay Ms G £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman