DRN-1741363
The complaint
Ms P  on behalf of Company J  complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited ("DAS") have declined her legal expenses insurance claim unfairly.
What happened
Ms P pursued court action against a builder in respect of bad workmanship carried out in 
2014. The builder was ordered to pay £47,000 by the court but defaulted on the judgment. 
Ms P made a claim on her legal expenses policy, requesting assistance from 
DAS to enforce the judgment and recover the outstanding debt.
DAS initially told Ms P that her claim was covered and appointed panel solicitors to review 
the claim in July 2018. However, they subsequently told her that the claim was not in fact 
covered because Company J had not supplied goods or services in this instance, meaning 
that the claim did not satisfy the policy requirements. 
Ms P complained that this decision was unfair, as she says the policy wording did not 
expressly limit cover to goods and services supplied by the insured, such that indemnity 
must also apply to situations where goods and services are supplied by others (i.e. the 
builder). She said that the policy terms were ambiguous in this respect, and so should be 
construed in favour of Company J. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He did not consider the policy wording to be 
ambiguous, and concluded that DAS had declined the claim fairly as it had not been 
Company J who had provided goods or services. Ms P disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
Ms P submits that the policy wording is ambiguous as it does not expressly state that the 
debt must be in relation to goods/services provided by the insured.
The relevant policy terms and conditions for debt recovery claims state that DAS will cover 
costs and expenses for:
A dispute relating to the recovery of money and interest due from the sale or provision 
of goods or services, including enforcement of judgments.
DAS declined the claim on the basis that Company J did not provide goods or services in 
these circumstances, as the dispute related to the recovery of money as a result of services 
supplied by the builder. DAS say that while it may not be expressly stated, the policy belongs 
to Company J, so it is implied that the wording would reference the policyholder as the one 
selling or providing the goods.However, it is not enough for a policy term to imply what is and what isnt covered. If an 
insurer is seeking to decline a claim on the basis that it is not covered, the particular 
provision must be clear, unequivocal and unambiguous. And in this instance I do not believe 
the policy term is clear in this respect, as it does not specify that the goods or services must 
derive from the insured. But even if the ambiguity here is construed in favour of the 
policyholder, I still do not think DAS have acted unreasonably by declining the claim, due to 
the date of occurrence of this particular dispute.
The policy terms and conditions state that the date of occurrence of the insured incident 
must be during the period of insurance. The policy defines date of occurrence as:
For civil casesthe date of the event that leads to a claim. If there is more than one 
event arising at different times from the same originating cause, the date of 
occurrence is the date of the first of these events (this is the date the event happened, 
which may be before the date you or an insured person first became aware of it.
In this instance, I consider the originating cause of the debt recovery dispute to be the poor 
workmanship carried out by the builder in 2014 (being the first of a series of events in this 
case). Or in other words, but for the poor workmanship of the builder, there would have been 
no court action, and no judgment for the builder to default on, and consequently no debt to 
recover. 
So, assuming that the policy ought to cover debt recovery disputes relating to the provision 
of goods or services from parties other than the insured (i.e. the builder), the originating 
cause of the debt recovery dispute pre-dates the policys inception, such that it would not be 
covered in any event. Therefore, I do not consider DAS to have acted unfairly by declining 
cover in these circumstances.
I appreciate DAS initially told Ms P that the claim was covered. But the decision to indemnify 
legal expenses claims is always subject to further analysis by solicitors and their 
determination on matters such as whether the claim has prospects or is proportionate to 
pursue. So I do not consider DAS provisionally telling Ms P that her claim was covered to be 
grounds for them to now have to cover any expenses she incurred in pursuing the builder for 
the debt.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P  on behalf 
of Company J  to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman