DRN-1614064
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Ms W says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), who were trading at the time as Lloyds TSB, 
mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Neither Lloyds nor Ms W have been able to provide documentation from the sale. As 
these events occurred over 21 years ago thats maybe not surprising. But I think 
Lloyds made it clear that Ms W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this now, many years 
later. I say this because Ive seen a sample application form. I think its most likely 
that this is the form that would have been used at the time of the sale. To get the 
cover Ms W would have had to select it and she would have had a choice about 
doing that. So it seems most likely that Ms W did choose it and did so knowing she 
had a choice about it. But in any event, even without this document, considering how 
long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to 
uphold the complaint on these points. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms W so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example she was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And she seems to have had a need for the 
cover. I say this as Ms W told us she couldnt recall what her sick pay would be, 
which is understandable given the length of time since these events. Ms W also told 
us she had no savings or other means to rely on such that she may have had to sell 
her car to make her repayments if she was too ill to work. This policy couldve 
covered 10% of her monthly balance for up to 12 months. And as it wouldve paid out 
in addition to whatever sick pay arrangements Ms W may have had and would have 
spared her from having to sell her car, I think she couldve found this cover useful.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
 
my final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so I am not upholding Ms Ws complaint against Lloyds 
Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman