DRN-2690862
The complaint
 Mrs G complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited didnt amend the retirement 
date on her pension plan which caused her a financial loss.
What happened
 Mrs L had two workplace defined contribution pension plans with Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited (L&G). Policy ending 101 from her previous employment with 
C was valued at around £68,228 had her retirement age as 60, and policy ending 201 from 
her current employment with M had a value of around £12,000 and a retirement age of 65. 
The plans were invested differently  plan 101 in a mix of global equities and gilts and plan 
201 in UK equities. Both plans had life styling options (to gradually and automatically de-risk 
the investments as retirement approached) which started at age 55. Mrs G says since 
starting work with M in 2016 she wanted both plans to reflect a retirement age of 60.
Mrs G was planning a years sabbatical from work to travel and attend university and needed 
to access her pension savings as soon as she turned 55. In December 2019 she asked L&G 
how she could do this and was advised to amalgamate plan 101 into plan 201 in preparation 
for taking benefits in August 2020. It was done that way as she was still contributing to the 
current plan. She intended to take the maximum 25% tax free cash (TFC) and then draw 
down from the plan to provide income while she wasnt working. But although her older 
policy was amalgamated into the current one the retirement age remained as 65, so it wasnt 
moved into safer investments. Due to the impact on stock markets of the pandemic her 
policy fell around £9,000 in a couple of months. It later recovered slightly from its initial loss 
of about 20%, but Mrs G is concerned it may not be sufficient to support her through her 
degree.
So Mrs G complained to L&G which said she hadnt given clear instructions to change the 
retirement date of her policy to 55. It said the retirement date was set by her employer and 
the members booklet explained how she could change it if she wished. It wasnt until March 
2020 that the date was amended, and her funds moved into fixed income and cash. As the 
fall in value was due to market turmoil in relation to the pandemic, L&G said they werent 
responsible for the loss. 
Mrs G complained to this service, so our investigator asked for call recordings to check what 
Mrs G had told L&G. Having listened to these she was satisfied Mrs G had made it clear she 
intended to access her pension at 55, and if shed known she could amend her retirement 
date she would have. The investigator felt amalgamating the plans had made things worse 
as the bulk of the funds were moved from safer into riskier investments. So she upheld the 
complaint and recommended Mrs G be put in the position shed have been in had her 
retirement age been amended to 55 in December 2019, and the plan moved into lower risk 
funds at that point. 
L&G disagreed as they maintain Mrs G hadnt given clear instructions to change her 
retirement date. So its been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as our investigator. Let me explain 
why.
I listened to the calls Mrs G had with L&Gs staff. In the first two calls in December 2019 she 
explained she intended to access some of her pension when she turns 55. She said she 
needed more than the 25% TFC so asked if she could she take some in the next tax year. 
The advisor talked about merging the two pots and taking flexi-access drawdown. 
The next call in February 2020 was prompted by a letter dated 7 February 2020 to Mrs G 
from L&G about the investment strategy for her current employer Ms plan (201). The letter 
had her retirement date as 6 August 2030 (her 65th birthday). The letter explained the default 
investment strategy will be changing from April 2020 for policy holders except those who are 
three years or less from retirement. This is because the current strategy (the UK Equity 10-
year lifestyle), was designed to provide moderate long-term growth by initially investing in 
assets such as stocks and shares before gradually moving into less volatile investments as 
members approach retirement to reduce the risk of a sudden fall in value due to stock 
market fluctuations. 
The letter went on to explain that in the ten years leading to retirement, changes to the 
investments will mean that at retirement the fund will be 75% in fixed income and 25% in 
cash, providing less prospect of growth but more security. Because people now have more 
flexibility with how they access their pension they might wish to leave the funds invested 
beyond their retirement date, just accessing them as needed, rather than using the whole 
pot to purchase an annuity. So unless she requested otherwise or brought her retirement 
date forward, Mrs Gs funds would remain invested to hopefully maximise growth. I 
understand the planned changes were abandoned due to the impact of the pandemic, but 
that wasnt known at the time of the call. The letter also said that if Mrs G wished to change 
her selected retirement date she should contact L&G. 
According to the glossary of terms in the members booklet for Mrs Gs L&G WorkSave 
pension plan a Lifestyle profile is an investment strategy that automatically moves your 
money between funds over time. These pre-planned switches will depend on how long you 
have until your selected retirement date. And a selected retirement date is the date from 
which it is assumed you will commence taking benefits and to which all projections of 
arrangement values at retirement will be calculated (my bold emphasis). 
Although in the call Mrs G said she wasnt within three years of retiring, she wanted to make 
sure her funds were in the right place which I think meant protected from market risk, given 
she wasnt going to commence taking benefits as expected at 65 in 2030, but at 55 later that 
year. I think its possible Mrs G saw a distinction between when she intended to formally 
retire and the key date here which was when she needed to access her pension. Mrs G 
says shed wanted to change the retirement date on her current plan since joining her 
employer in 2016. She didnt mention that in these calls, and if she had I think shed been 
told she needed to submit a specific instruction. But I think by telling L&G she intended to 
access a significant proportion of the pension at 55 they should have recognised Mrs G was 
effectively communicating her amended retirement date but wasnt aware she had to 
specifically request it to be changed. 
The call handler told Mrs G she could prevent the switch happening, but I think they should 
have understood the implications of what Mrs G was saying, as she was effectively only a few months of taking benefits and so her retirement date needed to be amended otherwise 
shed be exposed to too much risk, even before the pandemic was a factor. So even if L&G 
couldnt make the change without a specific instruction I think the call handler could have 
told Mrs G that unless she changed the date her funds would remain invested as if she 
intended to access them in ten years time. 
The final calls took place in March when her plan had already fallen in value due to the 
impact of the pandemic on the markets. 
Like the investigator I think the advice to amalgamate the larger plan (101) with a retirement 
age of 60 invested in a mix of equities and gilts, into the current one did expose Mrs G to 
more risk. This was done to prevent problems with her contributions, but I think L&G should 
also have considered the implications of the later retirement date on her lifestyle profile. L&G 
knew Mrs G has relatively modest pension savings from which she intended to make a large 
withdrawal between five and ten years earlier than projections had assumed. Shed 
mentioned feeling unable to afford to retire, yet it didnt appear shed be making significant 
further contributions. She said the 25% TFC would only give her about half the £40,000 she 
needed to fund her year off. So shed need to draw down a considerable proportion from 
what appears to be her only retirement provision, other than the state pension which she 
cant access for some years. So it was important to protect her plan as far as possible from 
investment risk just prior to her needing to access it. 
Theres an element of hindsight here - the timing unfortunately coincided with market 
volatility around the pandemic which neither L&G or Mrs G could have predicted. One of the 
advisors told Mrs G, after her plans value had already dropped around £9,000, that she 
could move her investments herself using the online access. But warned that being in cash 
would mean she wouldnt benefit when the market picked up again. While thats true, if life 
styling had been implemented sooner shes unlikely to have lost so much, as at least some 
would have been in lower risk investments. 
Im aware L&Gs call handlers cant give financial advice and they did suggest Mrs G speak 
to a financial advisor (which at one point she says she will do), so I appreciate they are 
limited in what they can say. But I think they should have understood the implication of Mrs 
G accessing her pension so much earlier than the retirement date on the plan. Taking 
everything into consideration I think when Mrs G first called in December 2019 to find out 
how she could take her benefits at 55, L&G should have seen that her lifestyle profile 
needed to be adjusted by amending her retirement date. It was clear Mrs G didnt realise 
shed have to give a specific instruction, so they should have explained how she could do 
this if she wished. Even if Mrs G had amended her retirement age to 60 rather than 55, the 
lifestyle profile would have reduced (although not eliminated), the investment risk she was 
exposed to.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be to put Mrs G as far as possible in the position shed 
be in if her retirement age had been amended to 55 on 16 December 2019. So L&G should 
carry out a loss assessment to see what the value of Mrs Gs policy would have been if that 
had happened. If there is a loss, an amount should be paid into Mrs Gs pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. 
The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If L&G is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs G's pension plan, the amount should be 
paid direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would haveprovided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid using Mrs Gs actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if Mrs G is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the 
current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs G would have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman