DRN-3473451
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Bennett Christmas Insurance Brokers Ltd (BC) has treated her 
unfairly in relation to a policy it sold her.
Any reference to Mrs C, BC or Company A refers to respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mrs C holds a home insurance policy which includes legal expenses insurance 
(LEI). The insurer of the policy was Company A, and was taken out through BC, 
acting as a broker, around June 2020.
Mrs C made a claim on the LEI policy in connection to her former employer 
(Company B). This was declined by Company A.
In November 2021, Mrs C complained to BC. She raised various concerns that 
included a lack of confidentiality and mismanaged conflict of interest. This related to 
BC also providing services to a third party (Company B), and one of its senior staff 
acting as one of its governors.
In December 2021, BC said it had acted fairly in handling any potential conflict, with 
this being declared after it became aware of Mrs Cs potential claim against 
Company B. It also said BC has no bearing on decisions made by an insurer.
So, the complaint came to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into what 
happened. She said BCs role was limited to that of an insurance intermediary, and 
was distinct from the insurers role of deciding a claim. She said the involvement of 
BC was limited to being notified of the claim and being CCd into email chains. 
The Investigator added the BC staff member that had a connection to Company B 
had declared it, and she was satisfied their actions had no impact on Mrs Cs claim, 
nor any evidence of information about the claim being shared inappropriately.
Mrs C disagreed, reiterating concerns about BCs actions, and stating that while it 
was acknowledged BC would not influence the decision making of the insurer, their 
expertise was a contributing factor into how it was handled, and that it shouldve 
done more to ensure the claim progressed. 
The crux of the complaint as Mrs C sees it, is how BCs senior staff member 
managed their role against that of a governor at Company B. And how the same staff 
member had a clear overview of her case  which was a conflict of interest  and 
was in a position to tell Company B her LEI claim had been unsuccessful, providing it 
with a tactical advantage.
Our Investigator approached BC for further information, requesting evidence to show 
if the staff member in question had accessed Mrs Cs file. BC provided screenshots 
which supported the agent hadnt reviewed the file. The Investigator said even if she 
had evidence that showed the agent did have access, she wasnt persuaded there 
was any evidence which supported that this had been shared with Company B or that 
it had impacted the claim.
Mrs C still disagreed, adding that shed been sold a policy that wasnt of use to her 
and raised concerns about LEI add on policies more widely. She provided further 
details of communications that she said supported BCs agent was privy to 
information about her claim. Along with extracts of the FCA handbook rules on 
conflicts of interest.
The Investigator didnt change her mind and explained any complaint about a mis-
sale of a complaint would need to be raised with BC in the first instance. So, the 
matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law, regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mrs C has gone to great lengths to explain why she believes BC has 
acted unfairly. And my response within this decision may appear curt given the detail 
and efforts shes gone to within her submission. This is not my intention but just the 
nature of the decision I have to make in this case.
The crux of Mrs Cs complaint centres on the actions of BC and its agents in relation 
to the claim she made under her Company A policy.
So, Ill begin by considering BCs obligations and what wed expect of it in the 
circumstances of a claim. A brokers role will normally be limited to notification of a 
claim or limited administration as it would be an insurer who considers and 
determines a claim. And having reviewed everything thats happened, Im satisfied 
this is what took place here. So, any complaint or dissatisfaction Mrs C has about the 
outcome Company A reached needs to be addressed by Company A, not BC.
Mrs C says BC shouldve done more to ensure her claim progressed. Even if I 
agreed with her, which I dont, its unclear to me what Mrs C believes BC couldve 
done or what it failed to do that wouldve impacted the outcome of the claim given it 
ultimately had no say in the decision Company A made. So, this hasnt persuaded 
me BC has done anything wrong.
Mrs C has complained about BCs handling of a conflict of interest within its 
company, and shes gone into detail about a particular member of staff and their 
connections with Company B. It is not the role of this Service to determine internal 
practices or make commercial decisions for a company. Put simply, my role is to 
consider if a business has made a mistake, and if it has, what it needs to do (if 
anything) to put that mistake right. 
In this case, Mrs C alleges BCs agent may have inappropriately accessed 
information about her LEI claim being declined, and in turn shared that information 
with Company B. And Mrs C says that meant Company B may have taken a more 
aggressive approach to her legal claim knowing this was not insurance funded.
BC has given assurances to say its agent in question never shared any information 
about the claim. And it has provided its internal records that support that the 
individual never accessed her file. In contrast Mrs C has provided speculative comments about Company Bs actions and email chains that she says shows bias or 
that the agent was involved in some way beyond what BC has said.
Ive reviewed all of the submissions carefully, and none of the evidence persuades 
me that its most likely any of BCs staff shared information about her with Company B 
or any other party. But even if it did  Ive been given nothing to support that this 
wouldve impacted Company Bs position or approach with her in her claim. So again, 
while I understand Mrs Cs concerns, these are speculative and unsupported.
Mrs C has since said she was mis-sold the policy. Im in agreement with our 
Investigator that this hasnt been raised with BC previously, so it isnt a matter Ive 
considered within this complaint.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman