DRN-1007507
 
The complaint
Mrs Q complains about the conduct of Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) and 
its authorised repairer (AR) after her car was damaged in a collision, and she claimed on 
her motor insurance policy with Admiral.
What happened
In December 2018, Mrs Qs car was involved in a collision with another vehicle, and she 
claimed on her policy with Admiral. She agreed with Admiral for her car to be repaired by 
one of its authorised repairers  AR.
While her car was with AR she was entitled under her policy to be provided with a courtesy 
car. However the car she was offered was much smaller than her car. Admiral checked with 
AR but it said its other courtesy cars were all out with customers and this was the only one 
available.
When AR inspected Mrs Qs car, it said it found badly repaired damage from a previous 
incident. So it said it wasnt willing to do any work on the car. After the car was returned to 
Mrs Q, she says there was damage to it which wasnt present when it was delivered to AR. 
Admiral said it would make a cash payment to Mrs Q to cover the damage instead of 
repairing the car. In February 2019, it paid her £1,935.70 (less her policy excess) which it 
said was the full amount of ARs estimate for what it would have charged Admiral for 
repairing the accident damage.
Mrs Q wasnt happy that this would be enough to repair the damage. So she obtained an 
estimate from an independent motor assessor (IMA), which came to £3,864.06. Admiral 
wouldnt increase its payment. So Mrs Q complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Having examined 
the estimates of both AR and IMA he thought the higher costs in IMAs report were 
attributable to the pre-existing damage, which Admiral wasnt responsible for. So he thought 
Admiral had made a reasonable offer to settle the complaint.
Mrs Q responded to say, in summary, that there was nothing in IMAs report to suggest its 
estimate covered any pre-existing damage. Her instructions to IMA were to assess the 
damage caused in the accident. She thought AR was unwilling to complete the repairs 
because she had fallen out with it over the courtesy car and other issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide is whether Admiral has treated Mr Q fairly and in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of her policy.Under her policy, she had the option of having the car repaired by one of Admirals approved 
repairers, or getting two quotations from a repairer chosen by her. If she chose an 
authorised repairer, she would have the benefit of a courtesy car while her car was being 
repaired. The policy makes it clear that such a courtesy car may not be a like for like car, or 
meet a customers special needs.
Mrs Q chose to have her car repaired by AR. It did offer her a courtesy car. I understand that 
Mrs Q felt it didnt meet her requirements. However it seems that it was the only courtesy car 
that AR had available at the time. And I cant say that it didnt meet Admirals obligations as 
set out in the policy.
When AR inspected the car, it says it found pre-existing damage which had been poorly 
repaired. So it was unwilling to work on the car in case this led to complications. It says this 
came to light without it having to strip the car. So it returned the car to Mrs Q in the same 
condition as it received it.
Mrs Q says AR told her it had started to strip the car to assess the accident damage and 
order any parts required. She says the car was returned with a front wing out of alignment, 
the bumper not properly attached, and some further paintwork damage. These werent 
present when she handed the car to AR.
Admiral didnt accept Mrs Qs complaint about this. It said AR said it hadnt stripped the car. 
Admiral thought this was likely to be the case as AR hadnt charged it for stripping the car. 
I cant say what happened in conversations between Mrs Q and AR. However Ive looked at 
the photos AR has supplied of the car when it first received it, and the photos IMA took some 
two weeks later. I cant see any obvious difference. So Im not persuaded that AR was 
responsible for any additional damage to the car.
I can understand that AR would have been reluctant to start work on the car if, as it said, it 
found evidence of previous damage that had been poorly repaired. Under the policy, Admiral 
was obliged either to repair the car, or to pay a cash sum to repair the damage. The full 
wording is as follows:
"2. What we will pay
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either:
pay to repair your car, or
pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item. We may reduce the settlement, 
or ask you to contribute towards the repair costs, if the parts replaced were already 
worn or damaged or for audio/visual equipment that has been removed from your car
 
A decision will be made based on the garage/engineers recommendation.
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the car or items 
claimed for. If your car cannot be repaired economically, we will get it moved to a place of 
storage as soon as possible.
If any lost or damaged parts are no longer available, we will only pay the cost shown in the 
manufacturers latest price guide, together with reasonable fitting costs. If your car is three 
years old or more, we may decide to repair it with recycled parts, or with parts which have 
not been made by the cars manufacturer, but are of a similar standard depending on 
availability.On the basis of the policy wording, I think Admiral was entitled to pay a cash sum to repair 
the damage caused by the accident instead of repairing the car. The question I have to 
decide is whether the sum it has paid Mrs Q is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive seen the estimate AR sent Admiral for the cost of repairing the accident damage. This is 
in a format customarily used by the insurance industry to enable an insurance company to 
see that what it is being charged is fair and appropriate in the circumstances.
The AR estimate lists all the new parts required, paint and painting materials, and labour 
which, with VAT, comes to £1,935.70. I have then looked at the IMA estimate to see why it is 
so much more expensive than this.
The IMA estimate includes more new parts than the AR estimate  nearside front wing, 
bonnet, both front headlamps and nearside front fog lamp surround. This takes the cost of 
replacement parts to £1,961.70 + VAT, instead of £947.69 + VAT. The IMA estimate for 
paint and painting materials is £384-10 + VAT (AR £234.19 + VAT) and for labour is £715.40 
+ VAT (AR £393.00 + VAT)
I cant say why IMA has felt it necessary to replace more parts than AR. I note that one of 
the reasons AR felt the previous repairs were poor was that the headlamps were held in 
place by glue. So that may be why IMA felt they would have to be replaced.
From the photos of the car I have seen, the accident damage to the nearside front of the car 
is relatively slight. In repairing a car which has suffered accident damage different repairers 
may take different views about what is appropriate. AR is one of Admirals approved 
repairers. So I cant say that ARs view that some parts can be repaired rather than having to 
be replaced is necessarily wrong.
I conclude, therefore, that Admiral acted reasonably in accepting the view of its authorised 
repairer that Mrs Qs car could be repaired at a cost of £1,935.70, and in paying this sum to 
Mrs Q, less her policy excess. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman