DRN-2704584
The complaint
  Mr T complains that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Ambrose Wilson (JDW)
irresponsibly increased the credit limit on his catalogue shopping accounts, and continued to
allow him to borrow when it should have been clear he was facing financial difficulties.
What happened
  Mr T opened a catalogue shopping account with JDW in December 2015. He went on to 
open a further 4 with JDW. Details of these 5 catalogue accounts are given below along with 
the balance Mr T had accrued by the time he had entered into an arrangement to pay with 
JDW in June 2018:
Number Account ending in Date of first statement Balance at time of 
arrangement June 2018
1 xx4097 10/12/2015 £2346.37
2 xx9527 27/12/2015 £2354.10
3 xx7716 21/06/2017 £1174.44
4 xx6000 18/11/2017 £928.05
5 xx9597 28/11/2017 £935.99
When Mr T first complained to JDW it didnt think it had been wrong in the way it agreed to 
or handled his accounts. So, Mr T brought his complaint to our service. His complaint has
been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that JDW had done anything
wrong initially when it agreed to the first three catalogue shopping accounts. But he felt by 
November 2017, JDW should have taken steps to freeze Mr Ts first three accounts as it 
should have realised the credit was no longer suitable for him. He also concluded that JDW 
shouldnt have agreed to accounts 4 and 5. So, our adjudicator asked JDW to put things 
right for Mr T.
JDW hasnt provided a response to our adjudicators view and Mr T hasnt provided any new 
information or comment in response. So, as Mr Ts complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is
the last stage of our process. If Mr T accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ts complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time required JDW to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Mr T could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability
assessment or affordability check. The check needed to be completed at the outset of the
relationship and each time there were any significant increases in the credit limit. JDW also
needed to monitor the account for any signs that Mr T was struggling to manage the credit
hed been given.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so JDW had to think about whether repaying the
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr T. In practice this
meant that JDW had to ensure that making the required repayments wouldnt cause Mr T
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for JDW to
simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of
any repayments on Mr T.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances at that time. In general,
what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of
factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g.
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or
financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be, or has been, indebted for
(reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the
customer is required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether JDW did what it needed to before agreeing to open
an account for Mr T, and to agree any subsequent increases to his credit limit.
JDW has told us that it set, and managed, Mr Ts credit limit by reference to information it
received from a credit reference agency, and by looking at how Mr T was managing his
credit account. But JDW hasnt given us any information about the results it received each 
month from the credit reference agency checks or any information about Mr Ts credit limits 
or when these increased. Furthermore, Mr T hasnt provided me with a copy of his credit file 
or bank statements so I cant infer what JDW might have seen on its checks. Where 
information is limited, as it is in this case, I need to make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities, in other words what I think is more likely to have happened. This is what I have 
done here. 
I have considered the checks JDW says it carried out when it agreed to the first two 
accounts in 2015 - I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for JDW to ask Mr T for the 
amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
opening either account. So, on balance, I dont think the original lending decision for either 
account should cause me any great concerns. And I think the same applies to any increases 
to the credit limit that took place over the following months leading up to November 2017. I 
have seen on his account history, during that time, that Mr T appears to have operated his 
accounts relatively well, and making the required repayments on time, albeit he was often 
paying the minimum or a minimal repayment. This resulted in Mr Ts balance on both 
accounts increasing from a few hundred pounds at opening to over £1,600 and £2,000 within 
two years.However, given the operation of these accounts to that time I dont think that it would be 
reasonable to expect JDW to have gathered the additional it might have needed to identify 
any problems that Mr T was facing.  I think that on balance its checks remained 
proportionate and with the limited information I have I cant say that JDW was wrong to 
continue to provide credit or increase Mr Ts credit limits.
During 2017 Mr Ts outstanding balance continued to grow steadily. He applied for his third 
catalogue account in June 2017 and although it ought to have held some concerns at this 
stage, with the way he had managed his accounts to this point, on balance I dont think it 
needed to do anymore at this stage to seek the amount of information that would be needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable. But after this point, there was an increase in spend 
and shortly after the third account had been agreed, his overall balance between the 
accounts had risen to around £3000. By this stage hed held two of his accounts for nearly 
18 months and had added a third, with an increase in spending. I think at this point JDW 
ought to have held concerns that he had not been successful at making any inroads in the 
amount he owed. Instead his balances were increasing. I think that should have been of 
increasing concern to JDW. 
JDW needed to monitor Mr Ts use of his credit facilities over its lifetime. As I have said, by 
June 2017 I think Mr Ts failure to make any great headway in repaying what he owed 
should have been of concern. And that pattern continued throughout the year across all 
three accounts. 
Mr Ts outstanding balance continued to grow throughout 2017 and had reached around 
£3800 by November 2017 at which point Mr T applied for two more accounts . Over a 
sustained period of time Mr T was not making any inroads into what he owed, and his overall 
debt was increasing to the point that I think JDW ought to have seen that it was likely to have 
become unsustainable for him to manage. So, I think by 1st November 2017, JDW should 
have reached the point where it accepted Mr T was likely to be facing serious problems 
managing his money. It should have treated him at that point with forbearance and with due 
consideration. I think an appropriate response would have been for JDW to decline any 
further credit on his existing accounts and then it shouldnt have opened two more accounts 
in Mr Ts name.
So in summary, I think JDW should have frozen Mr Ts accounts from 1st November 2017 
and not agreed to accounts 4 and 5, for the reasons I have given above. So JDW needs to 
put things right for Mr T.
  
Putting things right
 Where we find credit to have been agreed irresponsibly, this Services approach to putting 
things right is to refund any interest, fees or charges associated with the credit that were 
paid by the borrower. In addition, we usually direct the lender to pay a refund of 8% per 
annum simple interest on these payments where the borrower was unfairly deprived of their 
money. Wed expect the borrower to repay the capital borrowed as they have had the use of 
these funds, in Mr Ts case to buy goods.
Ive concluded that JDW was irresponsible in agreeing accounts 4 and 5. And I dont think it 
should have agreed to provide credit on accounts 1-3 after 1 November 2017. In order to put 
Mr T back into the position he would have been in had this not happened means he 
shouldnt have to pay any interest or charges on accounts 4 and 5. And he shouldnt have to 
pay any interest or charges on accounts 1-3 after 1 November 2017. 
In summary, JDW should:- Rework Mr Ts accounts 1-3 to ensure that from 1 November 2017 onwards interest 
or charges are removed; and remove interest and charges from accounts 4-5.
- Apply Mr Ts repayments to this adjusted balance.
- If the effect of this reworking results in there no longer being an outstanding balance 
to pay, then any remaining amounts paid by Mr T should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to him along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the 
date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. In this case, JDW 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file.
- If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have been 
made, JDW needs to ensure that Mr T is only liable for this adjusted balance. As the 
debt has been sold JDW should either repurchase it or liaise with the current debt 
owner to limit Mr Ts liability. This might include paying an amount to the third party in 
order for it to make the necessary adjustments or paying Mr T an amount to ensure 
that it fully complies with this direction. In this case, JDW should remove any adverse 
information from Mr Ts credit file once the account has been settled. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires JDW to take off tax from this interest. JDW must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ts complaint and direct J D Williams & 
Company Limited to put things right as detailed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman