DRN-3115744
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt settled a cancellation claim 
they made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mrs A brought the complaint to us, throughout this decision, Ive referred solely to her for 
simplicity.
What happened
Mrs A has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building society.
In January 2020, Mrs A booked flights to a country Ill call G. She paid £300 for the tickets. 
She was due to travel between 24 April and 4 May 2020. 
However, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised UK nationals against all but essential 
travel abroad. These restrictions remained in place on the planned date of Mrs As 
departure. On this basis, Mrs As trip was cancelled. 
The airline offered Mrs A a credit voucher for the full value of her airfare, which could be 
used within 12 months of the original departure date. As Mrs A wanted cash reimbursement 
of her flight costs, which she says the airline refused to offer, she made a claim on her travel 
insurance policy. 
UKI turned down Mrs As claim. It said that the policy only covered financial losses a 
policyholders suffered. As the airline had offered Mrs A a credit voucher for the full value of 
her claim, UKI said she hadnt suffered a financial loss. It said the policy terms specifically 
excluded losses which could be recovered from elsewhere.
Mrs A was unhappy with UKIs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
UKI later reconsidered Mrs As claim, as the credit voucher had expired. It asked whether 
Mrs A could provide any evidence from the airline that it wasnt prepared to extend the term 
of the voucher. It said that if she could provide this information, it would be prepared to settle 
her claim.
Mrs A subsequently provided a copy of an email from the airline dated 31 July 2020, which 
stated that the voucher was void. However, UKI required some more information from Mrs A 
about what had prompted this email. Thats because it noted that the email had been sent 
some months before the voucher had been due to expire. It wanted an explanation as to why 
the email was dated 31 July 2020 and why the voucher had been voided. It also wanted to 
see a copy of the email Mrs A had sent the airline which led to the airlines email.
Ultimately, our investigator felt that UKI had treated Mrs A fairly. She considered that the 
policy only covered irrecoverable costs and that at the point UKI assessed the claim, it had 
been fair for it to conclude that Mrs A hadnt shown shed suffered a financial loss. And while 
Mrs A had since provided evidence that the voucher was void, she thought it was reasonable 
for UKI to ask for further clarification on this point before it agreed to settle the claim.
Mrs A disagreed. She said shed provided all of the relevant information many times and yet 
she was still being asked for the same information. She also said that shed originally been 
told that her claim would be paid, which had then been dishonoured.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important that I make clear that this 
complaint will only consider whether UKI is reasonably entitled to request further information 
before it settles Mrs As claim. I appreciate Mrs A has raised concerns that UKIs claims 
handler told her that on provision of information, her claim would be paid. However, this 
issue was considered as a separate complaint by UKI in August 2020 and a separate final 
response letter was issued which dealt with this particular complaint point. UKI has told us 
that if Mrs A is unhappy with its response on that point, shell need to bring a new complaint 
to us about that issue alone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down 
her claim and Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about, amongst other 
things, the terms and conditions of Mrs As policy and the circumstances of her claim to 
decide whether UKI handled it fairly. 
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mrs As contract with UKI. 
The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events it covers for unused costs 
a policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. One of these insured events is the 
FCDO advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders pre-booked destination. In 
this case, theres no dispute that Mrs As holiday was cancelled as a result of the FCDO 
advising against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020. So I can understand why Mrs A 
feels that UKI should pay her claim for her unused airfare.
But the cancellation section of the policy also includes a list of things that UKI doesnt cover. 
One of these states that UKI wont pay for any expenses that a policyholder can recover 
from elsewhere. When it initially turned down the claim, UKI concluded that as the airline had 
offered Mrs A a credit voucher for the full value of her airfare; she hadnt suffered a financial 
loss for this booking which is covered by the policy. And I think the policy wording makes it 
clear that UKI doesnt cover costs which can be recovered or got back from elsewhere.
Ive considered the terms of the credit voucher Mrs A was originally offered by the airline. 
This was dated 23 March 2020. It states that the voucher was worth £300 (the cost of Mrs 
As flights) and would be valid for 12 months from the original date of Mrs As departure, 
which wouldve been 24 April 2021. And it could be put towards any future flight with that 
airline. So I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mrs A hadnt suffered a financial loss for 
her flights when it initially assessed the claim. Thats because the credit voucher would cover 
the full value of the flights and I dont think the terms of it were overly restrictive.
However, after the initial voucher expiry date had passed, UKI told us that it was prepared to 
consider the flight cost, if Mrs A could provide evidence from the airline that the voucher 
hadnt been extended or used. In my view, this was a fair and appropriate response from UKI. Its a policyholders responsibility to show that they have a valid claim on their policy. 
This means it was down to Mrs A to provide UKI with evidence that her loss had now 
become irrecoverable.
Mrs A did provide additional evidence from the airline in the form of an email. But this email 
was dated 31 July 2020 and stated that Mrs As travel voucher was now void. Given this 
email pre-dated the original voucher expiry date by around nine months, UKI requested 
further information from Mrs A in support of her claim. Namely, it wished to know why the 
airline had referred to the voucher being voided and why it was dated 31 July 2020. And it 
wished to see a copy of any email that Mrs A had sent the airline which led to that particular 
communication from it.
I dont find this to be an unreasonable request from UKI. I think its entitled to be satisfied 
that Mrs A hasnt prejudiced its position in any way or failed to mitigate her own losses. 
Presently, I dont think UKI has enough information to satisfy itself that Mrs A has suffered 
an irrecoverable loss which is covered by her policy. I appreciate Mrs A says that shes 
already provided this information to UKI. But UKI has told us that Mrs A hasnt provided any 
information to it since it set out its position on the claim to us in September 2021. And having 
looked at the claims notes UKI provided to us, I cant see that she has provided any 
explanation to UKI as to why the voucher was voided, or evidence of any email which led to 
the voucher voidance. So I think then that its fair and reasonable for UKI to require the 
additional information its requested before it goes on to reconsider Mrs As claim.
It's open to Mrs A to now provide UKI with the information its asked for and to ask for further 
information from the airline should she wish to do so. Whilst I appreciate why Mrs A would 
like a cash refund of her flight costs and that shes found the airline unresponsive, I find UKI 
hasnt acted unfairly in requesting additional information about the loss from her before it 
reconsiders the claim. If, on provision of new information, UKI decides not to pay Mrs As 
claim, shell need to make a new complaint to UKI about that issue alone before we can 
potentially look into it.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mrs As position, I dont think UKI has treated her 
unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman