DRN-2642737
The complaint
Mr S doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use some of his 
payment protection insurance (PPI) compensation to repay a debt from which he was 
discharged when his protected trust deed came to an end.
What happened
RBS sold Mr S PPI with six loans. In 2016, Mr S contacted RBS to complain that the PPI 
policies were mis-sold. On 23 and 24 August 2016, RBS wrote to Mr S  it sent him a 
separate letter for each policy  to say all six policies were mis-sold. It offered to refund the 
money hed paid for PPI with simple interest at 8% per year. It included a form with each 
letter for Mr S to sign and return if he wanted to accept the offer. Mr S signed and returned 
all six forms on 30 August 2016.
Below, Ive shown how much compensation was payable for each policy (after tax):
Loan ending 5477: £852.40
Loan ending 8314: £157.19
Loan ending 5722: £614.82
Loan ending 0130: £3,363.20
Loan ending 2369: £1,507.63
Loan ending 2124: £1,021.72
In total, Mr S was owed £7,516.96 (after tax).
On receipt of the acceptance forms, RBS checked its records and saw that Mr S had granted 
a trust deed  which I assume became a protected trust deed  for his creditors.
A protected trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his creditors, which is 
administered by a trustee. The consumer transfers his property to the trustee, who has the 
power to collect and realise assets, and distribute the estate among the creditors according 
to their respective rights and preferences. The right to compensation for a mis-sold PPI 
policy is, as an asset, usually vested in  or transferred to  the trustee for the benefit of the 
creditors. A trust deed will invariably include provisions relating to the discharge of the 
consumer from his debts, the restoration to him of any surplus, and the discharge of the 
trustee.
Mr S granted a trust deed in 2002 and was discharged from it in or around 2006.
However, when RBS checked its records, it identified someone (Consumer B) with the 
same name and date of birth as Mr S whod granted a trust deed from which hed yet to be 
discharged. RBS therefore wrote to the firm administering this trust deed, enclosing copies 
of the letters it had sent Mr S, so that it could sign and return the forms if it wished to accept 
the offers. The firm did not sign and return the forms until October or November 2018. On 
receipt of these forms, RBS updated the simple interest element of the compensation. As a 
result, Mr Ss PPI compensation went up to £8,069.08 (after tax).
It looks like Mr S continued to chase RBS for his PPI compensation  or, at least, an 
explanation. And he contacted us in August 2019.
In a letter RBS sent Mr S on 22 November 2019  at this point, it still thought Mr S was 
Consumer B  it told him he owed it £8,356.25 and it had kept his compensation to reduce 
this debt.
Mr S didnt think this was fair, and formally referred his complaint to our service.
RBS emailed us on 20 February 2020 to say it had made a mistake and confused Mr S for 
another consumer. And it told us Mr S was discharged from his trust deed in 2006. It 
subsequently told us Mr S had owed it £6,110.70 when he granted his trust deed, and that it 
had received payments totalling £228.30 from his trustee. In other words, Mr S still owed 
RBS £5,882.40 when he was discharged from his trust deed in 2006. As his PPI 
compensation was more than this, RBS sent Mr S a cheque for the difference (£2,186.68). 
And it added simple interest at 8% per year (£190.94) to compensate him for being out of 
pocket. It also sent Mr S a cheque for £150  having first offered £125  to compensate him 
for any distress and inconvenience caused by the mistake it had made.
Mr S didnt think this was fair, so his complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 February 2021, which explained why I thought it was 
fair for RBS to use some of Mr Ss PPI compensation to repay money owed and left unpaid 
when his trust deed came to an end. It included the following provisional findings:
Is it fair for RBS to use some of Mr Ss PPI compensation to repay the debt from which he 
was discharged in 2006?
 Ive explained that I must take into account the relevant law  which is not to say that I 
must determine this complaint in accordance with the law. Instead, I must determine this 
complaint by reference to what I think is fair and reasonable. I can therefore depart from the 
law  but if I do so, I must make this clear and explain why.
The relevant law in this case is Scots law.
In 2018, the Supreme Court clarified the effect of a trust deeds termination, when terminated 
on the final distribution of the estate.
In Dooneen Ltd (t/a McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court 
unanimously held that the consumer, and not his (former) trustee, was entitled to the PPI 
compensation because his standard form trust deed was terminated on the final distribution 
of the estate, which took place before either knew of the potential PPI claim.
And in a case very similar to this complaint, the Inner House of the Court of Session held 
that a business couldnt rely on insolvency set-off to answer a claim from a consumer for 
payment of her PPI compensation.
In Donnelly v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2019] CSIH 56, the consumers trust deed was 
terminated in 2013 when her trustee paid a final dividend. The business received about 
20 pence for every pound it was owed  which left unpaid more than £20,000. In early 2014, 
the business upheld the consumers PPI complaint, and the consumer accepted an offer of 
just under £12,000. While the consumer received a part-payment of just over £1,000  its 
not clear why  the business kept the rest to reduce the unpaid debt. The Inner House  
affirming a decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court  concluded that as the consumer had been discharged from her debts, there was no debt to set-off. In other words, it said the business 
couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which she was 
discharged when her trust deed came to an end. And the Supreme Court refused permission 
to appeal.
This was not, however, the end of the matter.
When the business learned it had lost its appeal, it asked the Outer House of the 
Court of Session  in Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106  to reduce 
(which means, in this context, to set aside or undo) the consumers discharge so as to 
reopen the trust proceedings and allow it to assert its right of set-off in the insolvency.
Below, Ive summarised the parts of the judgment that are relevant to this complaint:
If the trustee made a mistake (a material or substantial error), even if it wasnt the 
consumers fault, a court can set aside (reduce) the consumers discharge.
As the trustees failure to pursue the PPI claims for the benefit of the consumers 
creditors was clearly a mistake, the remedy sought by the business  reduction of 
the consumers discharge  would usually be granted by the court as a matter of 
course.
However, reduction is an equitable remedy. Its discretionary. And the court may 
withhold the remedy in exceptional circumstances  when there is some very cogent 
reason for doing so which would make it inconvenient and unjust to grant reduction.
In this case, the court concluded that there were exceptional circumstances and 
refused to reverse the consumers discharge.
The court noted the real practical and procedural difficulties that would arise as a 
result of partial reduction of the consumers discharge. One of which is that the 
consumer would be returned to a state of insolvency as the undischarged granter of 
the trust deed. This could adversely affect her credit rating and other financial 
commitments. Whats more, shed remain liable for the unpaid balance remaining 
after set-off, which in this case was a lot. Strictly speaking, any asset she acquired 
after she granted the trust deed could be applied to satisfy this sum  and if the 
trustees discharge wasnt also reduced, thered be no one to discharge the 
consumer from the unpaid balance for which shed remain liable.
The court said that, if the case merited it, a means could be found to overcome these 
procedural difficulties.
But in this case, the court concluded that it would be unduly harsh on the consumer 
(unjust and inconvenient) to grant partial reduction of her discharge. It took into 
account a number of factors, including: the time that had passed since the 
consumers discharge; the duration of, and misery caused by, the protracted 
litigation; the fact that the outstanding sum was paltry from the business perspective 
(and in proportion to the legal fees likely to have been incurred) but not an 
insignificant sum for the consumer; and, that thered be adverse consequences for 
the consumer and no obvious means to alleviate them.
What does all this mean for Mr S?
Simply put, on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the 
same as those in this case, RBS couldnt plead set-off in court unless the court first 
reduced (set aside) Mr Ss discharge. And, of course, the court may decide not to grant 
reduction.
That said, I must apply an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of this case.And I think its fair for RBS to use some of Mr Ss PPI compensation to repay the money 
owed and left unpaid when his trust deed came to an end.
When two people  or a person and a business  owe each other money, it seems only fair 
that they each pay what they owe.
Fortunately, I dont need to worry about the practical and procedural difficulties that troubled 
the Outer House. Mr S was discharged from his trust deed in or around 2006. Nothing I say 
will change that.
Mr S says RBS accepted the terms of his trust deed, which is a legally binding agreement, 
so it shouldnt be allowed to use any of his PPI compensation to repay the money he owed 
and left unpaid. He says hes the victim and its morally wrong that hes had to wait 
18 years to get justice.
I disagree. Mr S owed RBS just under £6,000 when his trust deed was terminated. His 
discharge relieved him of liability, it didnt extinguish the underlying debt. Notwithstanding the 
fact that a court may reduce his discharge so as to re-open his trust proceedings and allow 
RBS to assert its right of set-off, I simply dont see how it would be fair to tell RBS to pay 
Mr S just over £8,000 when he owed and didnt repay almost £6,000.
Testing this another way, if everything had happened as it should have done, Mr S would 
have repaid his loans and he wouldnt have paid anything for PPI. This is the position the 
parties find themselves in today, with the debt paid off and the surplus refunded.
Alternatively, if the trust had been administered without error  if Mr Ss trustee hadnt made 
the mistake of discharging him without first pursuing the PPI claims  RBS would have been 
able to assert its right of set-off. And the trustee would have kept the surplus to pay off any 
other debts, which means Mr S would have received less than he has and possibly nothing 
at all.
RBSs mistake
While I think its fair for RBS to use some of Mr Ss PPI compensation to repay the money 
owed and left unpaid when his trust deed was terminated, it should have paid him the 
surplus (£1,634.56) in 2016.
When a consumers out of pocket because of something the business has done wrong, Id 
usually tell the business to add simple interest at 8% per year until the consumer gets his 
money back.
Simple interest at 8% per year on £1,634.56 from 1 September 2016 until 22 April 2020  
which is when RBS sent Mr S a cheque for £2,377.62  is £380.90 (after tax).
Id have therefore expected RBS to pay Mr S £2,015.46  £1,634.56 plus £380.90. Instead, it 
sent him a cheque for £2,377.62  so its paid him an extra £362.16. And it sent him another 
cheque for £150 to compensate him for any distress and inconvenience caused. So as well 
as refunding the surplus with simple interest, RBS has paid Mr S an additional £512.16. RBS 
made a big mistake when it mistook him for another consumer, which deprived Mr S of a lot 
of money for almost 4 years. And it sent his personal and private information to someone it 
shouldnt have. But I think the simple interest its added to the surplus and the extra £512.16 
its paid him is fair compensation  so I dont intend to tell RBS to pay Mr S any more.
RBS has confirmed that its received my provisional decision and says it has nothing to add.Mr S says he doesnt agree with my provisional decision. Ive summarised and addressed 
his reply below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In reply to my provisional decision, Mr S reiterated his point that RBS accepted the terms of 
his trust deed and says he owes nothing.
Mr S also disclosed, for the first time, that he granted another trust deed in 2013 from which 
he was discharged in 2017. And he sent us a list of his previous addresses. He asked if the 
confusion about his solvency  and the identity of the insolvent consumer in 2016  was an 
attempt by RBS to keep his compensation at the expense of his other creditors.
In light of this new information, I checked The Edinburgh Gazette, which shows that Mr S 
granted a trust deed in May 2013. I asked RBS to confirm the address of Consumer B  
and it confirmed that Consumer B lived at the address mentioned in the Gazette. This 
address was also on Mr Ss list.
Its now clear that RBS didnt make a mistake in 2016: Mr S is Consumer B.
Below, Ive explained what this means.
In 2016, when Mr S first complained about the mis-sale of the PPI policies, he was 
an undischarged granter of a trust deed (the second trust deed).
RBS was therefore right to contact his trustee, which means I no longer think it 
wrongly sent his personal and private information to someone it shouldnt have.
On the assumption that Mr S owed RBS £8,356.25 when he granted his second trust 
deed  which is what it said in its letter dated 22 November 2019  RBS was entitled 
to keep all of Mr Ss PPI compensation (£8,069.08 after tax) by asserting its right of 
set-off  or balancing of accounts in bankruptcy, as its described in Scots law.
Mr Ss comments all concern the fairness of RBS keeping his PPI compensation to 
repay a debt from which he was discharged in 2006. He doesnt say anything about 
the fairness of it keeping his compensation to reduce a debt that was still due and 
payable, albeit via his trustee. For the avoidance of doubt, I think it would have been fair for RBS to keep all of Mr Ss PPI compensation to reduce the unpaid balance of 
the claim it submitted when Mr S granted his second trust deed. This is what it 
initially proposed to do.
However, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I also think its fair 
for RBS to use some of Mr Ss PPI compensation to repay the money owed and left 
unpaid when his first trust deed came to an end.
As I explained in my provisional decision, RBS paid Mr S the surplus with interest 
(£2,377.62). This wasnt necessary. It could have used this money to reduce the 
unpaid balance of the claim it submitted as part of the second trust deed process.
This means that Mr S has been paid £2,377.62 when I dont think he should have 
been paid anything at all. And hes received an extra £150 for a mistake RBS didnt 
make. Put simply, he is significantly better off than he would have been had 
everything happened as it should have done.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use 
some of Mr Ss PPI compensation to repay money owed and left unpaid when his trust deed 
came to an end.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman