DRN-4102598
The complaint
Mr M complains that Brazier Consulting Services Ltd havent pursued his complaints about 
the mis-selling of payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr M said in 2019, before the deadline for making such claims hed authorised Brazier to 
pursue PPI complaints with several lenders. He said theyd told him he didnt have PPI with 
a couple of his lenders but there were others hes still waiting for an answer. Mr M said hed 
emailed and called Brazier, but they havent told him the outcome of his PPI complaints. And 
he said after contacting one of the lenders he was told Brazier hadnt brought his complaint 
to them. Mr M complained to Brazier.
Brazier didnt respond so Mr M has referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator asked Brazier to provide their business file so that we could consider what
theyd done for Mr M in pursuance of his mis-sold PPI claims. But Brazier didnt provide the
requested information.
Our investigator said Brazier hasnt shown they submitted the mis-sold PPI complaint to Mr 
Ms lenders. She couldnt say whether Mr Ms claims would have been successful but said 
Mr M had suffered a loss of opportunity. She asked Brazier to compensate Mr M £250 for 
this. She also said the lack of updates had caused Mr M distress and inconvenience. She  
asked Brazier to pay a further £100 for this.
Brazier havent responded to our investigators outcome. Mr Ms complaint has been referred 
to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that Brazier havent provided any information about their involvement with   
Mr M about his mis-sold PPI complaints. Mr M has provided evidence of his relationship with 
Brazier and testimony about what has happened. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened or 
not considering the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Having done so Im 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI
claims to be made. For some lenders the submission of a letter of authority (LoA) was accepted 
as a claim for mis sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to investigate the 
mis-sold PPI claim. But for others a formal complaint with supporting information was required. 
Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the 
lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
From the evidence I can see, in March 2021 Brazier told Mr M that he didnt have PPI with some 
of his lenders and that he wasnt due any compensation. Mr M questioned the outcome for 
claims for two of his other lenders, one Ill call V, who he said hed several finance agreements 
with, and the other Ill call B who he said hed a loan with. I can see Brazier asked Mr M for 
further information about the accounts, and whether Mr M had any PPI policy documents. They 
also apologised to Mr M for not asking for this information when he first instructed them. They 
explained they needed the dates of his finance agreements as V hadnt offered PPI after 2011. 
And that they were awaiting an acknowledgement from B.  Mr M was told by Brazier that the 
lack of information provided to V about his claim had caused the delay. Mr M told Brazier hed 
finance agreements with V from around 2009 up to 2016. 
In July 2021 Brazier asked Mr M to sign a LoA for his lender V as they said the previous 
LoA had expired. They also asked him questions in support of his claim such as his 
employment status. But I havent seen any further update or request for information asked 
for or provided by Brazier since then.
Its usual for lenders on receipt of an LoA  prior to the August 2019 deadline to either accept 
this as a mis-sold PPI claim  auto conversion  and begin to investigate whether PPI has 
been mis-sold or to reject the claim as PPI hadnt been found. If the lender hadnt been able 
to locate an account for Mr M I would have expected them to seek further information to help 
identify his account details. I havent seen any evidence that shows Brazier sent an LoA to 
V before the August 2019 deadline. They asked Mr M to sign another LoA in July 2021 
saying V had asked for it. But I havent seen any evidence from V requesting this or the 
LoA being sent to V. And as mentioned above a lender wouldnt accept a LoA received 
after the August 2019 deadline unless there were exceptional circumstances for them to do 
this.
The Claims Management Conduct of Business (CMCOB) provides guidance to claims 
management companies (CMC) like Brazier. Ive considered the relevant guidance, CMCOB 
2.1.8 says:
A firm should take all reasonable steps to investigate the existence and merits of each
element of a potential claim before making or pursuing the claim or advising
the customer themselves to make or pursue the claim.
And from the evidence Ive seen Brazier didnt take all reasonable steps to establish the 
account details Mr M had with V as theyve acknowledged when they asked for further 
information from him on his request for an update about the status of his claim with V. And 
this was a couple of years after the deadline for making such claims had passed.
CMCOB 6.1.9 says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least
once every six months, in a durable medium.
And CMCOB 6.1.10 says:
If, during the period to which the report relates, the firm has not sent any notifications to
the customer under CMCOB 6.1.5R, the update should indicate why, to the best of
the firms knowledge, there have been no material developments.The guidance goes on to say that updates should continue to be given until the claim is
finally determined or settled or is withdrawn or discontinued.
I cant see Brazier adhered to the above guidance as theyve failed to provide regular 
updates, and I cant see there has been any contact made with Mr M since July 2021. Nor 
can I see that Mr M has been given any final determination for his claim(s).   
I cant know or speculate whether Mr M would have had a successful mis-sold PPI claim with
his lenders or not as there are several factors that lenders would have needed to consider. 
Mr M hasnt shown evidence of paying a premium for any PPI policy but given the passage 
of time I dont think this is unusual. But I would have expected Brazier to show me that that 
theyd carried out Mr Ms instructions to pursue his mis sold PPI claim(s), they havent. So, I 
think this has meant Mr Ms lost the opportunity for these claims to be considered. And I 
dont think Brazier has fully complied with the CMCOB guidance in their handling of Mr Ms 
claim(s). 
Putting things right
As I mentioned previously, I cant know if Mr Ms mis-sold PPI complaint(s) would have been 
successful. So, I cant ask Brazier to compensate Mr M for a successful PPI claim. But I 
think Brazier should compensate Mr M by paying him £250 for the loss of opportunity of 
having his PPI complaint(s) considered. And a further £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by Braziers lack of customer service by their failure to provide 
updates about the status of Mr Ms PPI claims, and the failure to respond to requests for 
information from Mr M.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Brazier Consulting Services Ltd to pay Mr M £250 for loss of 
opportunity and a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by their poor 
service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman