DRN-3869326
The complaint
Mrs N has complained about a request for information she received from Santander UK Plc 
(Santander).
What happened
Mrs N received a telephone call from Santander in March 2022. Mrs N called Santander 
back and was asked a number of questions about a number of large transactions that had 
taken place on her account some time ago, as well as questions about her job, income, 
mortgage and about a business she was linked to.
It was explained to Mrs N that the information was being requested because of Know Your 
Client obligations, however, Mrs N felt that the questioning was more like an investigation 
was being carried out.
Mrs N was required to upload a number of documents to corroborate her answers and was 
then told that if she doesnt hear back, that would be the end of matters.
Mrs N raised a complaint about the manner in which the information was requested and 
asked a number of questions about Santanders processes. Mrs N said that the sudden 
request for information caused her anxiety, and she was worried her accounts would be 
frozen. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs N referred her complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and didnt think that Santander had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mrs N disagreed and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As has been explained by Santander and the adjudicator, the reason why Santander asked 
Mrs N out of the blue to provide information about her finances was because Santander is 
obliged to adhere to the regulators Know your Customer responsibilities. This includes 
understanding the account holders source of funds and source of wealth.
I appreciate that Mrs N mayve felt that she was being interrogated and this mayve caused 
Mrs N some anxiety. But as Santander requested this information from Mrs N to ensure it 
complies with the regulators Know your Customer responsibilities, I cant reasonably say 
that Santander was acting unfairly or unreasonably about asking for the information (and 
evidence) that it did.
Mrs N says that Santander asked for the information in an underhand way. But I dont think 
that it did. Santander explained in the initial call (when it asked for information from Mrs N), 
that there had been a change in regulations concerning the Know your Customer 
responsibilities and so that was why Santander needed up-to-date information about Mrs N. 
It was also explained Santander may need to get a better understanding of certain 
transactions on her account. The member of staff then went on to ask information about 
large payments into and out of the account and also asked questions about Mrs Ns sources 
of income. 
Furthermore, when Mrs N complained saying she felt as though she was under investigation, 
Santander again confirmed in its final response letter that it needed the information it had 
asked for to confirm Mrs Ns source of funds and source of wealth. So I think Santander has 
given a reasonable explanation (both initially over the phone and in its final response letter) 
as to why it was asking for the information it did. And although Mrs N says in our complaint 
form that the information being requested was excessive, Santander was entitled to ask for 
such information and supporting evidence to ensure it could reasonably comply with its 
regulatory obligations.
Mrs N says she felt pressured to go through Santanders security checks, which Mrs N has 
said that she felt uncomfortable doing on inbound calls, due to the possibility of scam calls. 
I can understand why Mrs N may not be comfortable to start answering security questions 
when she receives a call from someone claiming to be her bank. But each time Santander 
called Mrs N, she was able to end the call and then call Santander back if she wished to do 
so. So I cant say that Santander prevented her from doing this when it called her about the 
information it needed.
Mrs N says that she was upset at receiving a text message saying that her accounts would 
be blocked if she doesnt respond. I do understand why this mayve alarmed Mrs N, 
especially as she had already spoken to Santander and uploaded the information that had 
been requested. However, during a conversation with Santander on the same day the text 
message was received, Santander apologised for the text and told Mrs N that the text had 
been generated when Santander had tried (unsuccessfully) to call Mrs N, but Mrs N had 
since called Santander back. It was also explained that the text message was worded as it 
was to ensure that those receiving it didnt ignore it  and this was due to the importance of 
Santander receiving the requested information in such scenarios. 
The person Mrs N spoke to also said that Santander would get back in contact with her if it 
needed more information from her, once it had reviewed what she had uploaded. Therefore, 
whilst it was unfortunate that the text message was sent when Mrs N had already spoken 
with Santander, Santander did apologise for sending it and did clarify the situation. 
I understand a letter was also sent out to Mrs N, because further information was needed 
from Mrs N. And I understand this letter also mentioned accounts being frozen if the 
information being requested was not provided in a timely fashion. But I cant say that 
Santander was being unreasonable because it explained the consequences of the 
necessary information not being provided. Indeed, had the letter not explained this and Mrs 
N had then delayed responding not realising the urgency of the matter, Im sure she would 
be most aggrieved to find her accounts had been frozen without any warning.
I note that Mrs N has said that she would rather the information was requested by email or 
letter. Although I appreciate that this mayve been preferable for Mrs N, I cant say that 
Santander was being unreasonable because it chose to request such information over the 
phone, rather than by letter or email. 
Santander has explained that it requests such information verbally rather than in writing, as 
the latter is much less flexible and would take longer. And having listened to the 
conversations, I can certainly see why that is the case. For example, when Mrs N responded 
to a question, the member of staff was then able to ask further questions about Mrs Ns 
response to help fully understand the context of what Mrs N was saying. If this had taken 
place in a written format, this would have involved a lot of back and forth between both 
parties and wouldve considerably lengthened the process. 
So whilst it was unfortunate that Santander sent the text message to Mrs N when it did, 
Santander did apologise and matters were clarified quickly when Mrs N called Santander back that day. And overall, whilst I appreciate that Santanders requests for information 
caused Mrs N some anxiety, based on everything Ive seen and listened to, Im unable to 
say that Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman