DRN-2382760
The complaint
Mr W complains that TSB Bank plc failed to update his credit file when he was discharged
from insolvency.
What happened
Mr W told us he had an account with TSB under a trust deed which was fully discharged in
December 2018. But he said TSB never bothered to remove this from his credit file. He said
that this had impacted him for 18 months, so he wanted compensation for his financial loss.
Our service asked Mr W for evidence of any financial losses caused by this, and he said that
the losses were self-explanatory.
We contacted Mr Ws trustee. She sent us further details, explaining that Mr W had signed a
trust deed in her favour in October 2014. Thats part of becoming insolvent, and Mr Ws
insolvency was recorded in the appropriate register in October 2014. It was then discharged
in December 2018.
TSB said it just hadnt been told about this discharge. When it was, it asked Mr W to
evidence that. He did so, and TSB updated his credit file. But it wouldnt pay compensation,
because it said that the fact that his credit file hadnt been updated earlier wasnt its fault.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that there was nothing
to show that TSB had been notified of the discharge in December 2018. And once it did find
out, it took steps to make the necessary changes to Mr Ws credit file. So our investigator
thought TSB had done what wed expect.
Our investigator said he understood this had been stressful, but he didnt think the bank was
at fault. So he wouldnt recommend that it paid Mr W compensation.
Mr W didnt agree, he said that we were trusting TSBs word over his and the word of his
trustee. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to
me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr W became insolvent in 2014. He was discharged from insolvency in 2018. He 
thinks TSB shouldve updated his credit file then.
TSB said it hadnt got a letter telling it that Mr W had been discharged from 
insolvency. When Mr W told it this, and provided evidence, it took steps to update his 
credit file.
TSB does appear to me to have acted promptly and appropriately, as soon as it 
became aware of the discharge. Because of that, I think its most likely that no letter 
was received by TSB about this in December 2018. I dont think its TSBs fault that 
Mr Ws credit file wasnt updated in December 2018.
Even if I thought TSB had made a mistake by not updating Mr Ws credit file in 2018 
(which I dont) I wouldnt necessarily say that TSB automatically had to pay Mr W 
compensation. In that case, I would ask Mr W to show us how this had impacted him.
Mr W just says that the damage is self-evident. But I dont think I can simply assume 
that the part of Mr Ws credit file that TSB is responsible for, would have caused him 
financial loss. I think Mr Ws credit file was likely to carry a number of marks resulting 
from his insolvency during this period, which werent anything to do with TSB. So I 
would be unlikely, without further compelling evidence on this point, to make any 
award of compensation in this case.
I know Mr W will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
TSB said it agreed with my decision. It repeated that it couldnt take any action while it hadnt 
been notified of Mr Ws discharge. Mr W expressed his dissatisfaction with our service, but 
offered no further evidence or argument. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman