DRN-2419568
The complaint
Ms C complains that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) has undervalued her vehicle 
following a total write-off.
What happened.
Ms Cs vehicle was written off after it was rear ended in a non-fault collision with a third 
party. After an inspection, and some negotiation, CIS placed a valuation of £3,914.00 on Ms 
Cs vehicle. But Ms C doesnt agree with this valuation and shes submitted her own 
valuation estimate of £7,000.00 She accepted the valuation as in interim payment, and 
submitted a complaint to our service 
An investigator in our service reviewed this complaint. After reviewing the complaint, the 
investigator agreed with CISs valuation, and said it was fair and reasonable.
But Ms C doesnt agree, and she asked for an ombudsman to review the valuation. I 
reviewed the evidence submitted again, and I felt the valuations provided by CIS hadnt 
taken into account all of the valuation tools available. So, using all the tools available I 
suggested that a valuation of £4,400.00 would be a fairer valuation for this vehicle.  
I put this uplift in valuation to both parties. CIS has agreed, but Ms C remains unhappy and 
she has asked for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint as Ive set out previously and Ill explain why.
Ms C is unhappy with the valuation that CIS has placed on her vehicle. Our approach is to 
consider whether CIS has settled Ms Cs claim in line with the terms and conditions of her 
policy, fairly and reasonably. So, I have considered the terms of the policy and the offer 
made in order to determine whether CIS has acted fairly. I can see that in the event the 
vehicle cant be repaired, CIS wont pay more than the market value of the van at the time of 
the loss.
Market Value is defined as The cost of replacing the car with another of the same make, 
specification, model, age, mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or 
damage happened.
Our usual approach to complaints about vehicle valuations is to look at motor trade guides 
for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and 
auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This 
takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage. 
If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its reasonable 
to ignore it. This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. We wouldnt normally place much weight on 
adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair. Differences in mileage or year of registration 
can significantly affect value, and sometimes the vehicle actually ends up selling for a lower 
price than advertised. However, adverts may be helpful if the complaint involves a classic or 
rare model. Or if theres a strong argument that the guides could be wrong. 
Ive checked three motor trade guides for the value of Ms Cs vehicle at the time of the
incident and they produced the following valuations: Cap £3,505.00; Glass £3,914.00 and 
Cazana £5,650.00. 
In this case Ms C says the car was immaculate and, on its way to becoming a classic. She 
says its deemed rare as its a manual gear shift and most examples I've seen for sale are an 
automatic transmission. Its also classed as a "Mark 1" model, making it even rarer. Added to 
this its had the same owner from new, its 15 years old, it has a full-service history, and its 
only travelled 50,000 miles.
The valuations CIS has provided match ours, although I can't see that the engineer has 
done a Cazana valuation. And as you can see from the valuations as set out above, the 
Cazana valuation is coming in somewhat higher than the other two.
CIS has used the Glass valuation as the basis for its offer. And looking at the three guide 
prices together our approach would be to say this is fair as normally, we might think its 
reasonable to ignore this outlying valuation. But having looked at everything and in particular 
the consumers argument that this is a unique specification of make and model, I don't think 
the outlying Cazana valuation should be discounted entirely. The reality is that the Cazana 
valuation is actually in line with a number of advertisements that Ms C has provided, and its 
closer to the valuation provided to Ms C by the selling garage. But crucially, the Cazana 
valuation also provides us with details of similar specification vehicles sold around the time 
of the valuation. And from this information I can see that mileage on this make and model of 
vehicle has a big impact on price. Similar vehicles sold at average mileage of 110,000 to 
120,000 miles are selling for the same price as the Glass or CAP valuation. But importantly 
similar specification vehicles with 50,000 to 60,000 miles are selling and have sold for prices 
closer to the £5,000 mark. 
So, because of this I don't agree that we can approach this as we usually would. In this case 
I'm inclined to merge our approaches to get to a fair valuation. We have a wide variety of 
valuations on file, and I think we need to take a pragmatic view of all the valuations and not 
discount any of them. So, with that in mind I think the correct approach would be to include 
the Cazana valuation and take the three guides into account. The average of the three is 
approximately £4,400.00. And I think, given what I've seen in this file, this would be a fairer 
valuation for this vehicle.
I note that CIS is happy to agree with this valuation. But Ms C still thinks the valuation is too 
low. She says: Whilst I am really pleased that the Cazana valuation is a move to what I 
believe my car is worth, its still disappointing that for £4,400 I cannot find a car which is 
similar to mine. 
Ms C has provided two further examples from an online seller. The first one is a 2007 
convertible with 100,000 miles and five previous owners advertised at £4,995.00. The 
second is a 2003 coupe model with approximately 50,000 miles for sale for almost £12,000.00. She has also pointed me again towards the £7,000.00 valuation previously 
provided. But apart from the fact that these examples are so different to Ms Cs vehicle, I 
note these examples are from current live advertisements. The term in the policy states that 
CIS will pay the value of the car immediately before the loss, so unfortunately the examples 
provided by Ms C dont reflect the price of the vehicle she had. 
I think the range of valuations provided overall by Ms C show how difficult it is to pinpoint the 
exact price for this vehicle. The criteria that drive the price are so varied, and some very 
specific criteria such as age, mileage, or additional extras play a big part in determining the 
price. Because of this it makes sense to rely on the guides and use the data provided within 
them to get to a fair valuation. Our approach is considered a fair approach, and even though 
Ms C doesnt agree I think, based on all the valuations Ive seen that £4,400.00 is a fair 
valuation for this vehicle.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require CIS General Insurance Limited to:
Pay the difference between what its already paid to Ms C, and the £4,400.00 
valuation placed on her vehicle. Interest* at 8% should be added to this amount from 
the date of the claim.
*(If CIS General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms C how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman