DRN-1506589
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, reduced the limit on his credit 
card unfairly.
What happened
Mr H used his Halifax credit card for a £1 tester transaction, as part of a third partys account 
opening procedures. His December 2018 statement told him the balance needed to be paid 
by a certain date. But this didnt happen. The third party refunded the transaction to the 
account three days after payment was due.
As no payment was received, Halifax reviewed Mr Hs credit limit and reduced it from 
£16,350 to £500. Mr H found out about this via his next statement and a letter telling him 
about the reduction, saying his spending would be capped to the new limit with immediate 
effect.
Mr H contacted Halifax to explain that he didnt know when payment was due because his 
statement had reached him late. This was due to poor postal services in his country of 
residence over the Christmas period. But Halifax said its review of his credit limit and 
subsequent reduction was correctly carried out in line with terms and conditions of his 
account.
Where a customers unhappy with their limit being reduced, Halifax said itd normally 
complete a financial fact find before manually assessing if it was possible to increase the 
limit again. But as Mr H no longer lived in the UK, this wasnt an option.
Mr H remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service. He didnt think it was 
fair for Halifax to reduce his credit limit so vastly when he was only three days late paying 
back such a small amount. He said hed be happy with a limit of around £5,000, but £500 
wasnt enough to meet his needs. 
One of our investigators looked into things. He didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He thought 
Halifax had acted fairly and within the terms and conditions of the account when it reduced 
Mr Hs limit. Our investigator also explained that our service didnt have the power to tell a 
business to change its processes. So it wouldnt be right for him to ask Halifax to increase 
Mr Hs limit again. 
Mr H didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said he 
understood the terms and conditions of his account, but disagreed hed missed a payment. 
Rather, it had just been paid three days late. He also thought our investigator hadnt properly 
considered the fact that the payment was for just £1. Mr H also felt Halifaxs insistence that a 
credit review be carried out was insulting.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing to Mr H. Id like to explain my reasons.
Its up to a business to set the terms and conditions of the accounts it offers and to decide 
the basis on which itll make credit available to customers. My role is to decide whether 
Halifax applied those terms fairly when reducing the credit limit on Mr Hs account.
Halifaxs terms and conditions say that it can change the credit limit at any time. They give a 
range of reasons that might prompt changes. But the business doesnt have to specify the 
precise reason to a customer.  
Halifax didnt receive the payment of £1 Mr H owed to his account in January 2019 by the 
date due. This isnt in dispute. Mr H acknowledges himself that he was technically in the 
wrong.
I understand that the late arrival of his statement  due to postal delays beyond both his and 
Halifaxs control  meant that Mr H wasnt prompted to repay his outstanding balance in 
time. I also appreciate that the payment in question was for a very small amount. In light of 
what followed, I can see that this will have been particularly frustrating for Mr H. 
Im also aware that Mr H disputes a payment was even missed, believing that the payment 
just credited his account late. But when payment wasnt received by date due, I think it was 
reasonable for Halifax to treat that as a missed payment, regardless of the amount, or the 
fact that the outstanding amount was refunded to the account a few days later. So I dont 
think Halifax acted unfairly in then reviewing Mr Hs account.
When reaching the decision to reduce Mr Hs credit limit, Halifax said it reviewed the way he 
used his credit card and considered information from credit reference agencies. Businesses 
make lending decisions based on commercially sensitive information. So I wouldnt expect 
Halifax to offer any more detail as to its reasons. However, I am aware that Mr H found the 
content of the letter telling him about the reduction somewhat patronising. The letter 
suggests that Mr H may have difficulty repaying this borrowing. Its difficult to reconcile this 
statement with such a small outstanding debt. So I can appreciate Mr Hs feelings on the 
subject. 
Halifax has also said that where a credit limit has recently been reduced, a manual review 
would need to be completed with their lending team before any increase would be 
considered. I think this is reasonable, as a business would want to satisfy itself regarding the 
reasons that led to the decrease, before extending credit again. But Halifax has explained 
that for this to take place a customer has to be a UK resident. And whilst Mr H was when he 
opened his account, he isnt now. So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Halifax to 
consider increasing Mr Hs limit, as that would be contrary to the banks policies and 
processes.
Finally, I understand Mr H has expressed some concern about a potential negative impact 
on his credit file. Halifax has said that the payment history is recorded on its internal 
systems, but it doesnt believe this has affected Mr Hs credit file. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think that Halifax acted unfairly by reviewing Mr 
Hs account and reducing his credit limit. And Im satisfied it made that decision in line with 
the account terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman