DRN-3953726
The complaint
Miss D complains about the outcome of a claim she made to Klarna Bank AB (publ) in 
respect of goods she purchased using a loan it provided. 
What happened
Miss D purchased furniture (a 2 and 3 seaters sofa set) in January 2021 for £999.98 using a 
fixed sum loan provided by Klarna. However, she says the furniture is not of the quality she 
expected and would like it to be replaced or get a full refund. In summary, she says:
some places on the 2-seater are showing marks and holes; and
this damage cant be repaired as the sofa is not real leather  the supplier sold her a 
leather sofa, so this is mis-selling.
Miss D contacted the supplier about it in August 2022, but it wasnt able to resolve things  
so she contacted Klarna to raise a claim. However, Klarna did not agree to refund or 
facilitate replacement of the furniture either. 
The complaint about the way Klarna handled matters came to this service to consider. Our 
investigator considered how Klarna had acted in light of its responsibilities under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). However, he did not uphold the complaint 
and concluded, in summary, that he did not have persuasive information to show that the 
damage to the sofa was due to a manufacturing fault. He also did not consider there to be 
persuasive evidence of a misrepresentation by the supplier either. 
Miss D wants the matter considered by an ombudsman. In summary, she says the purchase 
was £1,000 and it has started to show damage after 18 months  no one would agree this is 
fair or reasonable  she expected it would last many years especially with light use.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 allows Miss D to make a like claim against Klarna for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the furniture. There are certain technical requirements 
that must be in place for a Section 75 claim to be valid and I am satisfied those are met here. 
So I move on to consider whether or not there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
The quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and
durability can also be aspects of the quality of goods.
In considering whether there has been a breach of contract here I have taken into account 
what Miss D has said about both the price of the furniture and the expectations she has 
around durability. However, it is important to note that just because an item is damaged or 
not working as intended this will not always mean the supplier has breached its contract in 
respect of the quality of the goods. I think the key question here is about the cause of the 
damage which Miss D has complained about and has photographed. In regard to this I dont 
think there is persuasive information to show that the cause of the damage is likely due to a 
fault with the materials/lack of sufficient durability.
I have limited information to go on here. I have fully considered what Miss D has said and 
the photos she has provided. However, considering the nature of the localised damage 
shown in the photos I think the rips and holes could be explained by reasons other than an 
inherent defect (such as accidental/care related damage). Considering this along with the 
time that has elapsed from point of supply to when it was first raised by Miss D (around 18 
months) and the lack of persuasive evidence clarifying the cause of the damage (such as an 
expert report) I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to conclude there is a breach 
of contract by the supplier which Klarna needs to remedy here. I also note that while the 
supplier did offer Miss D some compensation  it appears to be a goodwill gesture to resolve 
the matter rather than an admission that the goods it sold were not of satisfactory quality.
I know Miss D says that before she approached the supplier she had someone come out to 
do repairs and they said they couldnt do this because the sofa is not real leather. Miss D 
has indicated the sofa was therefore mis-sold to her. However, I dont think there is 
persuasive evidence this is the case. From what I have seen about the description of the 
sofa it was advertised as bonded leather, while Miss D has not provided persuasive 
evidence to the contrary. 
Although I am sorry to hear Miss D has had issues with the sofa  I dont think there is 
persuasive evidence here of either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
As a result, and with Section 75 in mind I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Klarna should refund her or facilitate a replacement.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman