DRN-2876703
The complaint
Mr L has complained about advice he received from TenetConnect Services Limited in 1994.
He was advised to start a free standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan to
supplement his pension. He says that advice was not right for him.
Mr L is represented by a CMC.
What happened
Mr L took advice in 1994. He set up an FSAVC in September 1994. He took further advice
from TenetConnect in 1997 and he accepted a recommendation to increase his FSAVC
contributions.
Mr L complained in 2019. He said that the FSAVC was missold and he should have been
advised to purchase added years in his occupational pension scheme.
TenetConnect said the complaint had been made too late. An ombudsman made a decision
confirming the complaint was made in time and so this service could consider the merits.
TenetConnect then made an offer to compensate Mr L based on a comparison between the
FSAVC and the employers additional voluntary contribution (AVC) up to 2012 when Mr L
took further advice.
Mr L disagreed. He restated that he would have purchased added years, and not the AVC.
The investigator considered the complaint and decided that it should be upheld. She noted
that there was no dispute that the FSAVC was mis-sold. The issue was what would Mr L
have done instead. She decided that he would have purchased added years.
The investigator concluded that:
Our service would have expected TenetConnect to have mentioned AVCs and
added years to Mr L at the time of the sale in 1994. But there was no evidence that
these were discussed.
Mr L was in his mid-twenties, he could have purchased three added years, and given
his profession would probably have remained in the scheme to retirement.
An added year would have cost 0.6 per cent of salary and this was affordable for Mr 
L. He contributed a higher amount to the FSAVC and then increased this 
substantially in 1997.
Although added years were referred to in the 1997 sale, the lower cost of in-house
AVCs wasnt identified.
The investigator decided that the complaint should be upheld and set out how redress
should be calculated.
TenetConnect disagreed. It said, in summary:
Mr Ls age, profession and career options mean that he would have been a potential 
early leaver.
FSAVC offered greater flexibility. Mr L had other aims besides his retirement 
provision at the time, buying a house and getting married. Mr L did use the available 
flexibility, redirecting money to a PEP in 1997 and ceasing contributions in 2011. 
Added years would have been more rigid.
Although Mr L recalls that his attitude to risk was low, it was recorded as balanced in 
1994 and in 1997. Mr L understood the FSAVC was invested and returns werent 
guaranteed. This was only a small portion of his retirement planning.
With the benefit of hindsight, the added years option may now be viewed as a more 
attractive option, however, an assessment must be based on what was known at the 
time.
Taking into consideration each of the factors above, if presented with all the details of 
the options available, Mr L would have been most likely to have opted for NHS 
Money Purchase AVCs for this additional part of his retirement provision.
Mr L ceased his FSAVC contribution in 2011 due to concerns about his LTA. Its 
therefore likely that he would have stopped any AVC contribution then for the same 
reasons.
TenetConnect restated an offer to redress Mr L based on a comparison between his FSAVC
plan and the position he would be in with an in-house AVC.
Mr L declined this offer and the investigator didnt change her view. As no agreement has
been reached the case was referred to me for a final decision.
I made a provisional decision. I explained why I felt the offer made was fair.
I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional view is that the offer TenetConnect has made is a fair offer. Therefore, Ive
made this provisional decision to explain why thats my current view and explain why I
disagree with the investigator.
Mr L is complaining about advice he was given in 1994. Thats over 25 years ago, I think the
passage of time must be factored into any findings which are based on Mr Ls recollection
and recall. There is some documentation from the 1994 sale, but more extensive
documentation from a further sale in 1997. Where there is any conflicting evidence, I think
the contemporaneous documentation should have greater weight.
Having considered all of the available evidence, Im not satisfied that I can safely conclude,
on the balance of probability, that Mr L would have selected added years if he had been fully
informed of his options in 1994 (or in 1997).
I think there is a significant doubt that he would, enough doubt to mean that I shouldnt reach
that conclusion. I think its most likely that if Mr L had been fully informed, he would have
selected in-house added years instead of the FSAVC.
My findings are as follows:
Attitude to risk (ATR). Mr L recalls his ATR was low. I acknowledge his recollection,
  but Ive considered the documents from the sales in 1994 and 1997. On both
occasions his ATR was recorded as balanced. That doesnt seem implausible tome. In 1994 he was young, about to marry, and with no dependents. He was starting
out in a professional career with the prospect of salary increases and with many
years ahead of him to retirement. I dont think a balanced ATR is inconsistent with
his circumstances and so I think Mr L was probably someone who was in a position
to take the degree of investment risk which would typically be associated with the
FSAVC/AVC options. I dont think he would have been considered to be risk averse
and insistent upon the lower risk and guaranteed approach associated with added
years.
FSAVC contribution. Mr L paid more into his FSAVC from 1994 than he could have
paid into added years. He could only buy a maximum of 3 added years. He then
increased this FSAVC contribution in 1997. The limit on the amount Mr L could pay
towards added years may have favored his choosing the FSAVC/AVC option where
he was free to pay higher contributions from the outset.
The 1997 sale. Although the 1994 sale doesnt set out the option of added years, the
documents for the 1997 sale suggest this option was discussed. Costings appear to
have been provided and Mr L was told about the guaranteed nature of added years.
But Mr L elected to increase his FSAVC contribution at that time, a time when he
appears to have had a degree of awareness about the option of added years.
I cant use hindsight. We know now that added years may have been a better choice
for Mr L, but that is largely because investment performance over the last 20 years or
so hasnt been as strong as was anticipated at the time of sale. In either 1994 or
1997, expectation of future investment growth would have meant that the
FSAVC/AVC options would probably have had higher projected returns than added
years.
Age. Mr L was relatively young, in his mid-twenties. He had only just joined the
employer pension scheme. There were over 35 years to his normal retirement age. I
understand that he has remained in the scheme, but I think there must be some
acknowledgment at least of the possibility for him to have been considered as a
potential leaver at the time of the advice. This factor would favour the choice of
FSAVC/AVC.
Flexibility. Added years would have involved a committed cost from the outset, again,
at his age I think there must be some doubt that Mr L would have wished to make a
fixed commitment for over 35 years into the future.
LTA. Given Mr L ceased contribution to the FSAVC in 2011 due to his concerns over
his LTA, I think its reasonable to conclude that he would have ceased contribution to
an AVC at the same time and for the same reasons.
Whilst none of these factors would, in isolation, have necessarily had a decisive influence on
the choices Mr L made in 1994 (or 1997), I think that the combined effect is to cast serious
doubt on Mr L choosing added years even if he had received suitable advice and was fully
informed.
Equally, I dont think there is much doubt that Mr L would have selected in-house AVCs over
the FSAVC if he had been fully informed, including information about the lower cost.
Therefore, my current view is that this complaint should be upheld, but TenetConnects offer
is fair and so I dont intend to make any further award.
Mr L accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that Mr L has accepted the provisional decision endorsing the offer from 
TenetConnect, I see no reason to change my reasoning and conclusions. I confirm them 
here.
Putting things right
TenetConnect Services Limited must calculate and pay redress in line with the offer it has 
made based on a comparison of the FSAVC/AVC position.
It should provide a copy of its calculation to Mr L.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about TenetConnect Services Limited.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman