DRN-3963904
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with 118 118 Money, who is a trading name of Madison CF UK Limited. 
Mr B complains that 118 118 Money lent to him irresponsibly when it agreed a loan which he 
says was unaffordable for his circumstances. Mr B has complained with the help of a claims 
management company.
For the purposes of this decision, I have referred to Madison CF throughout as it is 
accountable for the actions of 118 118 Money.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr B applied for, and was given a loan for £3,000, which was repayable 
over a period of 36 months. The repayments were around £141 a month, and in total Mr B 
agreed to pay back about £5,060 over the three years, once interest was added. Mr B repaid 
the loan early after five months, which meant he only paid £624 in interest after receiving a 
rebate.
 
Mr B says Madison CF shouldnt have given him the loan because it wasnt affordable. 
Madison CF says it did check whether the loan was affordable, and based on those checks, 
Mr B had enough disposable income to make the loan repayments.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed, so this 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint. Having thought 
about all of that, I have reached the same conclusions as those reached by our investigator 
for broadly the same reasons.
Madison CF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr B 
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr B would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. There is no set list of what 
reasonable and proportionate checks should look like, rather greater thoroughness might be 
reasonably expected where a person on a lower level of income may be borrowing a high 
sum, or taking out borrowing over a longer period which could potentially cost more in the 
longer term.
Madison CF did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. It asked Mr B for 
details of his income and expenditure and it reviewed his credit file to understand his credit 
history and existing commitments. From these checks combined Madison CF concluded that 
Mr B had enough monthly disposable income to afford the loan and he did not display any 
sign of financial difficulty.
Mr B declared he earnt £1,761 a month, he had no dependants, and he was a council tenant 
living at the same address for over 19 years paying £504 a month rent. Ive not seen how 
Madison CF validated this information but I dont think this is critical to the outcome of Mr Bs 
complaint. I say this because he has submitted copies of his bank statements from around 
the time of his application. These show Mr B receiving a regular income over the amount he 
had declared and that his rent payments were broadly as stated.
Madison CFs search of Mr Bs credit file did not reveal any poor repayment history or 
defaulted agreements. It showed Mr B had an existing loan with a balance of £617 and four 
repayments of £154 remaining and so it is reasonable for Madison CF to assume Mr Bs 
disposable income would increase quite soon into the term of the loan he was applying for, 
over and above the proposed repayment. So, as Mr B had been repaying his existing loan 
without signs of difficulty, Madison CF in effect only needed to be satisfied he could afford 
the increased commitment for the first four months of the proposed loan term.
Mr Bs credit file recorded that he owed a modest £3,286 across eight active credit accounts 
and he was using less than 45% of his available revolving credit limits. I accept it shows 
Mr B had taken some cash advances on his credit cards, but equally, it shows Mr B only 
once paid the minimum contractual repayment in the previous three years, paying more than 
the minimum the rest of the time. Allowing for 5% of his outstanding balance as a monthly 
repayment towards his credit cards, Mr B would pay less than a quarter of his monthly 
income towards his current and proposed credit commitments.
I dont think this information ought reasonably to have prevented Madison CF from lending to 
Mr B or prompted further checks, given the size of the loan and repayment amounts 
involved. As far as I can see from his bank statements Mr B was left with a sufficient surplus 
after his rent and non-discretionary spending. And as there were no obvious signs of 
financial distress, I think Madison CF acted fairly before agreeing to lend to Mr B. 
In summary, Im unable to say Madison CF was wrong to lend to Mr B based on the 
submissions and evidence available to me.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and I do not make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman