DRN-4120066
The complaint
Mr A complains about a vehicle hire agreement he had with Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc  
trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions (Novuna). He sought an amendment to the agreement 
in respect of the permitted mileage allowance and is unhappy with the new monthly rental 
amount he was quoted.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr A entered into a vehicle rental agreement. The agreement was over 48 
months and Mr A was required to pay an initial rental of £815.51 and then 47 rentals of 
£271.84. In return, Mr A was allowed to use the vehicle over this period and was subject to 
the terms and conditions of the agreement. One of those terms related to the amount of 
miles Mr A was allowed to drive over the contract term. 
Some way through the agreement term Mr A asked to amend the agreement as his 
expected mileage had reduced from when the contract started. The permitted mileage was 
reduced, to 12,000 miles per year, and the monthly rentals also reduced, to £174.71, after 
being recalculated by Novuna. Around six or seven months before the agreement ended Mr 
A again contacted Novuna and asked about increasing the permitted mileage. 
Mr A was quoted a new monthly rental of £263.95 that would be payable over the remaining 
months of the agreement for a new annual mileage limit of 17,000. After some discussion, 
the contract amendment did not take place and the monthly rentals continued unchanged, as 
did the 12,000 miles annual mileage limit. 
A number of discussions took place around this time as Mr A questioned the proposed new 
monthly rental of £263.95. He considered this to be too high and referred to where Novuna 
had explained that this new price had been calculated using the anticipated excess mileage 
costs over the remaining months rentals. Mr A has referred to the agreement terms and 
conditions and that excess mileage charges can only be applied once the agreement has 
ended. He is unhappy about the way that Novuna has calculated the revised monthly rental 
and believes a lower amount should be charged. 
As the agreement amendment did not proceed, the agreement ran to the end of the original 
48 month term with the remaining rentals at the amount that had been charged from when 
Mr A had previously amended the agreement. The annual mileage limit remained at 12,000 
and as the mileage exceeded the permitted mileage (based on the 12,000 and not what Mr 
A had sought to increase it to) Mr A was charged an excess mileage charge.
After not being able to resolve matters with Novuna Mr A referred his complaint to our 
service. It was considered by an investigator but ultimately the investigator did not consider 
that Novuna had acted unreasonably or unfairly. Mr A remained unhappy with the 
investigators conclusions and the complaint has now been referred to me for final 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe I will disappoint Mr A further as I have come to broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator for what are essentially the same reasons. 
Mr A is unhappy about the revised monthly rental price he was quoted by Novuna and 
believes this is too high as it includes a charge for excess mileage. Mr A has referred to the 
agreement terms and conditions and highlights the clause referring to excess mileage only 
permits excess mileage to be charged when the agreement ends. 
I have considered the terms of the hire agreement between Mr A and Novuna and it appears 
silent on whether the agreement can be amended or not. But as the agreement was 
previously amended and I assume both parties were happy with that amendment, the 
absence of a specific amendment clause is not in my view significant. Novuna appears to 
have been happy to amend the original agreement, as was Mr A the first time it was 
amended, and Novuna was willing to accept a further amendment, subject to Mr A accepting 
the revised monthly rentals. 
Where the terms of the agreement are silent on amending the contract it is ultimately down 
to the parties to negotiate and agree terms they are happy with and willing to proceed on. Mr 
A is correct in his reference to the agreement terms and conditions on excess mileage and 
that this can only be charged contractually when the agreement ends. Term 9 of the 
agreement refers to excess mileage in detail and applies to if the agreement ends early or 
runs its full term. 
However, where Novuna has referred to anticipated excess mileage when explaining how 
the proposed new monthly rental has been calculated I do not consider it is seeking to apply 
this term of the contract into its calculation. The cost associated with increasing the milage 
over the remaining months of the agreement is related to the additional and higher amount 
of miles the car would travel. Reference to anticipated excess mileage is in my view likely to 
refer to the mileage that is expected over the contractually permitted mileage before the 
contract is amended. It is referred to anticipated mileage as it is not yet known at that time, 
but it is reasonable to assume as an increase is being requested, that the mileage will 
exceed the contractual mileage (before the amendment) when the contract ends. And it is 
referred to at this stage as excess mileage as it is simply referring to the expected mileage 
over the contractual mileage limit, again before the amendment is made. 
It is clear from the exchanges between Mr A and Novuna at the time they were discussing 
the proposed amendment that there was some misunderstanding but I do not consider 
Novuna has caused this. Novuna has not sought, nor has it suggested it has, to apply clause 
9 to the pricing of the amendment. It is of course unfortunate that the parties were unable to 
resolve any confusion but I again do not consider Novuna is at fault here. 
I note Mr A proposed a lower monthly rental amount that he considered would be reasonable 
to charge but I dont consider Novuna was under any obligation to accept this. The 
contractual amendment did not actually take place and Mr A was then charged excess mile 
costs as he had exceeded the contractually permitted annual mileage allowance when the 
agreement came to an end. It was at this stage that Novuna sought to relay upon the excess 
mileage clause within the contract terms and a pence per mile charge was applied to the 
mileage that exceeded the permitted mileage. 
I do not consider Novuna has acted unreasonably or unfairly by applying the charge, as the proposed amendment never actually went through. I note Mr A says that Novuna failed to 
respond to him when they were discussing the proposed amendment but from the evidence 
presented Im satisfied Novuna did try and explain how the proposed rentals had been 
calculated. And even if further discussion took place, I consider it unlikely that Mr A and 
Novuna would have come to a mutually acceptable position.  
Mr A has also referred to what he considers to be harassment from Novuna around settling 
the amount it considers to be outstanding. I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude 
Novuna has been harassing Mr A. 
As this final decision is the last stage in our process it will now be for the parties to move 
forward and for Mr A to settle the excess mileage charge that has been applied. Should Mr A 
not accept this decision and decide to continue his dispute with Novuna he will need to do so 
through an alternative route, such as through the courts. 
My final decision
I again appreciate that Mr A will be unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. But for the 
reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint against 
Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc  trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman