Complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out with a secured loan. Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold this 
policy to him. 
Background
Mr A took out a 10-year secured loan for £9,500 in 2004. At the same time he bought a PPI 
policy to protect his loan repayments in the event of becoming unable to work or losing his 
job. He says he wasnt told anything about the PPI and it was added without his consent.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld but Mr A disagreed with 
this and its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Weve spoken at length to Halifax about these types of loans and, as a consequence, we 
know quite a bit about how they were generally sold. We know, for example, that consumers 
normally met with a branch advisor to discuss their requirements. And we know that as a 
result of that discussion, a credit agreement was produced with all the relevant details on it. 
The consumer was then invited to check and sign the agreement to complete the process.
Halifax has sent me a copy of the credit agreement for this loan. Its the type of agreement 
Ive seen many times and theres a section on it about PPI. There were two boxes available 
on the form to either say yes or no to having a PPI with the loan. I can see the yes box 
was ticked and the other one was left blank. Because Mr A did this and signed the form, I 
think this shows he agreed to have the PPI and would have known he had a choice.
I also know Halifaxs sales processes usually meant that these types of sales were advised 
sales. This means the PPI was recommended to him and so Halifax had a duty to make 
sure the PPI was suitable for Mr As needs. Mr A said the PPI wasnt suitable but Im afraid I 
think it was.
I think this because this was a long-term loan secured against his home. So the 
consequences of not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. I accept that 
Mr A says he already had some protection from sickness at work. But in my view, this 
doesnt make the policy unsuitable.
DRN-1153200This is because the unemployment and sickness protection in the policy lasted much longer 
than what Mr A had in place with his job, and at around £11 per month I dont think this 
would have been unaffordable. In the event of a successful claim, the policy could have 
covered the loan repayments for 1 year for unemployment  and for 5 years in the event of 
sickness. This was in addition to any other means he had in place. So I think the policy was 
suitable.
I cant say Mr A would have been told everything he should have been. But I note the costs 
of both the loan and PPI were shown on the agreement and on a letter explaining the policy 
he was sent. I therefore think he knew the costs and who was covered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. And I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman