DRN-1426722
The complaint
Mr H complains about certain aspects of his storm damage claim consideration by U K 
Insurance Limited (UKI). He is unhappy that the loss adjuster gave an opinion on the 
ongoing legal dispute with his neighbour; UKI asked the loss adjuster to give his legal 
opinion on the dispute; a call handler assumed a reason for the ingress of water and the loss 
adjuster didn't record any asbestos concerns on the claim report, despite a discussion about 
this. 
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his home insurance policy after rain started entering his home on 8 
May 2019. UKI sent out a loss adjuster who concluded that no storm conditions had been 
present and so there was no claim under the policy. When he arrived at the property he 
parked outside Mr H's home but was told by a neighbour no-one could park there and so he 
moved his vehicle. 
Following Mr H's claim being declined by the loss adjuster, he spoke with UKI about the 
claim and wasn't happy that he couldn't be given an exact cause for the water entering his 
home. He also obtained a copy of the claim report and noted it didn't record any 
asbestos concerns. He complained to UKI about the loss adjuster's interaction with his 
neighbour and that a legal opinion has been given; that the call handler used the term 
'assumed' when discussing the water ingress; and that asbestos hasn't been recorded on 
the claim form when it was discussed. 
UKI didn't uphold the complaint as it wasn't persuaded it had done anything wrong. And 
our investigator concluded it hadn't done anything wrong either. She found the loss adjuster 
hadn't been asked to, nor had he, provided a legal opinion on Mr H's ongoing dispute with 
his neighbour; the call handler hadn't used the term 'assumed' but had referred to a probable 
cause; and asbestos concerns hadn't been recorded as that would only be relevant if the 
claim had been accepted. 
Mr H indicated his disagreement with the outcome but because of his personal 
circumstances wanted the complaint held in abeyance. It isn't appropriate or fair for us to 
leave a complaint open indefinitely, and we are required under the Financial Service and 
Markets Act 2000 to resolve cases quickly and informally. I'm satisfied it's now appropriate to 
move this complaint to the final stage of our process. Mr H was notified we were progressing 
to this stage in advance of us doing it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H is unhappy that the loss adjuster has given a legal opinion on the dispute with his 
neighbour and he doesn't understand why UKI would ask him to do that. From the 
information I've seen, there is no persuasive evidence that UKI asked its loss adjuster for a 
legal opinion on Mr H's dispute with his neighbour. UKI has simply asked the loss adjuster 
for a statement on what happened, as this formed part of Mr H's complaint to it. Mr H is also unhappy that the call handler used the term 'assume' when discussing the 
cause of the water ingress. As the investigator found, this isn't correct, they referred to there 
probably being a build up in the lead valley. But even if the call handler had, I wouldn't 
necessarily find this to be wrong. As I concluded in Mr H's complaint about the declined 
claim, the loss adjuster was there to establish whether there was a valid claim under the 
policy; not what the exact cause was, if there wasn't a valid claim. Given there was more 
than one possible cause for water ingress - a build up of debris in the lead valley, the 
cracked and worn mortar, or the moss on the roof tiles indicating they are porous - making 
reasonable assumptions isn't unfair or wrong. Whilst Mr H may strongly disagree with that, 
I'm satisfied UKI didn't do anything wrong. 
Finally, Mr H has argued the loss adjuster didn't record there were any asbestos concerns 
when he spent some time discussing this during the visit. But I'm unsure of the relevance of 
this given the claim was declined. If the claim had been agreed and repairs arranged then I 
think this is information UKI would want to know; particularly as it would have been a safety 
concern for any works carried out both for its contractors and Mr H. But as the claim was 
declined, and so no work was going to be carried out on the roof or the interior, I don't place 
as a great an importance on this as Mr H does. 
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, I don't find UKI has done anything wrong 
and so I don't uphold this complaint or make any award against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman