DRN-4187703
The complaint
Miss L, helped by a representative, complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to 
agree that she had paid in £2,500 into a cash machine. Barclays said that the amount she 
deposited was £1,510.
What happened
On 20 January 2023, Miss L went to a Barclays branch to pay in cash. She said she had put 
in some of the money, when the machine stopped working. So she went to a member of 
staff, said shed been depositing £1,500, and told them about the machine problem. Miss L 
asked about staying until the machine was checked and money credited, but the clerk told 
her she didnt need to stay, so she left. 
Miss L went back later in the day, and said shed made a mistake and the amount she was 
depositing had been £2,500 in £20 notes, not £1,500 as shed previously said.
Miss L looked on her mobile banking the same day, but no credit showed on her account. 
She contacted the branch, and was told shed be phoned back, but it didnt happen. She 
rang Barclays helpline. The helpline initially said it would ask the branch manager to ring her 
back, but Miss L was distressed and the helpline adviser recorded a complaint. Miss L also 
went to the branch several more times.
On 23 January her bank balance showed a new credit, but it was for £1,510, £990 less than 
£2,500. 
On 6 February, Barclays sent Miss L its final response to her complaint. It said that the 
amount deposited was £1,510 in £10 notes, and it couldnt evidence that shed paid £2,500 
into her account. It said its technical team had checked the machine, which had had £10 
over, so it had credited this to Miss Ls account. The machine hadnt had a £1,000 cash 
surplus. Barclays said that CCTV didnt show what notes which Miss L had paid into the 
machine.
But Barclays agreed it had made an error with the delay in the funds crediting Miss Ls 
account. So it upheld her complaint in relation to that, and credited her account with £75 
compensation. 
Miss L wasnt satisfied, and helped by a representative, she contacted this service. Miss Ls 
representative spoke to Miss L on multiple occasions, and set out what Miss L had told her. 
She also explained that the loss of the money had put Miss L into serious financial difficulty. 
What Miss L said in her complaint form to us was different from what shed complained 
about to Barclays. In her complaint to us, Miss L said that after shed put some of the money 
in the machine which had then jammed, shed taken remaining money to the cashier to 
deposit. 
Our investigator asked Miss Ls representative whether Miss L had any evidence to show 
that shed had £2,500 to pay in  for example if it had been money from the sale of a car. But 
Miss L didnt have any evidence to show how much money shed had to pay in. She said it 
had been the repayment of a loan by a friend.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint. He said that Miss L hadnt been able to 
provide any receipts, notes, or any written evidence to show shed had or deposited £2,500. 
Shed also been inconsistent about how much she had deposited, and Miss L and Barclays 
had agreed that when the machine fault happened, Miss L had initially filled in Barclays form 
and told staff that shed deposited £1,500. 
The investigator also explained that Barclays had said that CCTV was no longer available, 
but the pictures seen at the time showed Miss L at the machine, but not how much shed 
deposited. The investigator said that the technical evidence showed that the machine had 
£1,510 which it had credited to Miss L. He thought Barclays £75 compensation for the delay 
in crediting the account was fair.
Miss L didnt agree. Helped by her representative, she said that:
- she understood that if there was £1,500 left in the machine, that was most likely to 
have been hers, but she wanted to know what happened to the £990 which she said 
the clerk had taken to the counter. She hadnt been able to follow him because hed 
gone into an area not for the public;
- the reason she hadnt waited for a receipt was because shed been told she didnt 
need to;
- she wanted to know why it had taken until the Monday for any money to credit her 
account;
- she questioned why there was no CCTV after three months. She said that if there 
had been a bank raid, this would mean the police would only have had 28 days or 
three months to investigate;
- she wanted to know whether the records showed two separate transactions on the 
account, one from the machine and one from the counter.
Miss L asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Barclays for more information.
Cash which Miss L said she handed to the clerk
In Miss Ls complaint form to us, which wed copied to Barclays, Miss L had said that after 
the machine jammed as she was putting in her money, the clerk took the remaining money 
to the desk to deposit. But Barclays documents to us were solely about the machine. So I 
asked Barclays whether Miss L had at any point complained that shed handed more money 
to the clerk. Barclays sent us the call recording when Miss L raised her complaint. Ive 
listened to this, and in that call Miss L didnt mention handing money to the branch clerk.  
The complaint was about the machine, and the time it had taken for Barclays to credit Miss 
Ls account with the machine money. Ive also looked at Barclays contact notes, which are 
completed by various employees as a complaint investigation continues. Again, theres no 
record on those that Miss L ever mentioned to Barclays that shed also handed over money 
to the clerk.
Technically, the rules governing this service mean that we can only consider matters which a 
customer has already raised with their bank. So this means we cant consider the element which Miss L first raised with us, but hadnt raised with Barclays, about handing money to 
the clerk. But in practice, the fact that she didnt at any point mention this element to 
Barclays, and only added it when she complained to this service over a month later, means 
that there has to be considerable doubt about whether Miss L has accurately remembered 
what happened. I consider its much more likely than not that, if shed handed extra money 
to the clerk which hadnt been credited, shed have complained straightaway to Barclays, not 
waited a month till she contacted us.
How much money was paid into the machine?
Ive looked at the computer records for the machine. When theres a problem with notes  for 
example if they are worn or crumpled  the notes go into a container within the machine 
called a purge bin, until the machine is checked by a technician.
Ive seen the records for Miss Ls £1,500 dispute. These show that staff checked the purge 
bin of the machine which Miss L used at 10.45am on 20 January. Barclays records show 
that it found £1,510 in the machine, and that this was the only purge that day for that 
machine. So this was the amount they credited to Miss Ls account.
Another key factor here is that both Miss L and Barclays say that Miss L initially told Barclays 
that the amount shed deposited was £1,500 in £10 notes. She left the branch, and returned 
later to say that shed made a mistake and had actually paid in £2,500 in £20 notes. So Miss 
L was inconsistent here, which doesnt help her case. I also note that £1,500 in £10 notes 
would have meant 150 notes, and £2,500 in £20 notes would have meant 125 notes. It 
wasnt that shed just mistaken the note value.
Miss L and her representative have asked for CCTV, and are disappointed and concerned 
that its no longer available. But its standard for CCTV to be kept for a relatively short time 
before being recorded over, and to answer Miss Ls representatives point about any criminal 
activity in a branch, its likely that if that happened, the recordings would be handed to police 
immediately. In any case, CCTV rarely shows as much as a customer would like it to. To be 
useful evidence, it would have to show clearly both the person paying in; and a close-up of 
the exact amount of every one of the notes; the account details which were keyed into the 
keypad, etc. This is almost never practical in real terms. CCTV is often for general security 
purposes in a branch. Its not to try to show exact details of what was paid in or taken out, 
and by whom. So even if it were still available, its unlikely it would have helped me to 
determine what Miss L paid in that day.
Taking the machine evidence, and Miss Ls initial statement about how much she was 
depositing, into account, I consider its more likely than not that the amount Miss L paid into 
the machine was £1,500.
Delay in crediting money from the machine to Miss Ls account
The £1,510 which was in the purge bin of the cash machine was credited to Miss Ls account 
as a single credit, labelled Failed cash on 23 January. I also asked Barclays why it had 
taken from Friday 20 January to Monday 23 January for any of the money to credit Miss Ls 
account. Barclays replied that the purge check was done on Friday 20th, following which its 
machines are serviced and checked the next working day, which would have been Monday 
23rd. 
I recognise that the delay in crediting her account with any money at all would have been 
distressing for Miss L. Its clear from the phone call recording that she was understandably 
upset, and worried about the loss of her money. So I find that its fair and reasonable for 
Barclays to pay Miss L compensation for the upset and distress which this caused her. I find 
that £75 is fair and reasonable for this, and Barclays has already paid this to Miss L.  So, having taken into account all the evidence, I think its more likely than not that the 
amount Miss L paid in on 20 January was £1,500 not £2,500. I consider Barclays should 
have credited this more quickly than it did, but I find that the compensation which Barclays 
has already paid for this distress and inconvenience was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman