DRN-3796939
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his motor insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) because when it 
repaired his car after an accident, it was returned to him with more issues than it had when it 
went for repair.
What happened
Mr As car was knocked into by a neighbour, damaging the body work at the front of the car, 
on the offside. UKI took it for repair. When the car was returned to Mr A he complained to 
the garage that there was a smell of oil  that oil had been split, either during the accident or 
repairs. The garage took the car back and replaced the rear seats and carpet. Mr A still felt 
the car smelt of oil  he also reported a noise in the engine, an issue with the stop-start 
function and a broken driveshaft. UKI reviewed matters and referred to its engineer who 
visited Mr A to assess the car.
The engineer reported that he couldnt detect any smell in the car or noise from the engine, 
and the car seemed to be driving fine. He said the damage and repairs would not have 
caused any of the mechanical issues reported by Mr A. Mr A sent an estimate from the car 
manufacturer for replacement seats, to evidence this was required  and the manufacturer 
garage told UKI all it had done was produce an estimate as requested by Mr A. A video from 
the manufacturer was also provided to UKI, along with details of diagnostic work it had 
carried out. UKI, with reference to its engineer, was still not convinced it was liable for any of 
the issues Mr A had complained about. It told him so, and Mr A complained to us.
Our Investigator felt UKI hadnt done anything wrong. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A felt the complaint should be upheld. So he asked for an Ombudsmans review and his 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr A, I dont think 
UKI has done anything wrong. And, as our Investigator explained, it is only if it is shown that 
an insurer has failed a policyholder, that a complaint can be upheld.
Mr A feels that UKI has failed to properly repair his car, in fact that it has caused further 
damage to his car. So it is for Mr A to show that is most likely the case. Mr A presented an 
estimate from the manufacturer garage  but this does not show that UKI caused damage, 
or even that this is work that is needed. Not in light of the conversation UKI has reported 
having with the garage, where the garage confirmed the estimate was just that  an estimate 
for work, rather than an expert recommendation that the work detailed was needed. Similarly 
the video from the garage doesnt evidence that UKI caused a problem either.
Furthermore, UKIs engineer has provided his expert opinion on the issues Mr A has drawn 
to UKIs attention. The engineer has said that he couldnt smell oil in the car and confirmed 
that the seats and carpets were replaced. Hes said that neither the accident or UKIs repairs 
would have caused issues with the stop/start function, the engine or the driveshaft. 
So Mr A hasnt presented evidence which makes me think UKI did anything wrong. And UKI 
has presented expert evidence that reasonably defends the arguments Mr A has raised. 
Therefore, I think its fair to say its most likely here that UKI hasnt done anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman