DRN-3347614
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are a partnership who trade as F. They have complained about the indemnity 
period start date QIC Europe Ltd (QEL) applied to their business interruption insurance claim 
and also about the amount of time QEL took to settle their claim.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs W held business interruption insurance with QEL. They claimed on their policy 
after their business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. 
 
QEL initially turned down Mr and Mrs Ws claim as it didnt think the policy provided cover for 
the circumstances of their claim. However, following the Supreme Court judgment in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case it accepted 
that the policy provided cover and asked for further details to validate Mr and Mrs Ws claim. 
QEL let Mr and Mrs W know that, on the basis of the information provided, they thought the 
start date for the three month indemnity period under the policy was 2 March 2020. 
 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs W complained to our service. They said their business was 
seasonal and was not due to start trading until 3 April 2020. They didnt think it was fair for 
the indemnity period to start before that date as they hadnt incurred any losses between      
2 March and 3 April. Mr and Mrs W also complained that QEL hadnt settled their claim 
earlier. They asked for interest to compensate them for being without the money they should 
have had.  
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and recommended it be upheld. He 
thought the indemnity period should start on 12 March 2020 and recommended that QEL 
add interest to the claim settlement.  
QEL disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It didnt think 12 March was the 
correct start date and said that the investigators recommendation for the interest payable 
was presumed to be based on an assumption that QEL had breached Section 13A of the 
Insurance Act 2015. QEL said it was entitled to wait for the Supreme Court judgment in the 
FCA test case before deciding on the outcome of the claim and didnt think Mr and Mrs W 
were entitled to damages for any late payment.  
I contacted Mr and Mrs W and QEL through our investigator to set out my thoughts before I 
reached a final decision. With regard to the start date, I liaised with both parties and 
ultimately recommended that the indemnity period start on 5 March 2020. QEL amended its 
position to accept that it would pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim from 5 March 2020. Mr and Mrs W 
accepted this indemnity start date in an effort to resolve their complaint. 
 
Turning to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about the time it took for QEL to accept their claim, in 
an email dated 25 July 2022 I said: 
When deciding whether its fair and reasonable to award interest, Ive thought about what 
QEL should have done in relation to Mr and Mrs Ws claim. While its difficult to know 
exactly how long it would have taken QEL to deal with Mr and Mrs Ws claim, I think its fair 
and reasonable to conclude that when dealing with the claim in 2020 they should have found 
that Mr and Mrs Ws policy provided cover from [5] March 2020. 
 
Ive noted QELs point that it needed to wait until [the] outcome [of] the test case and 
ultimately it was the Supreme Court that found that Mr and Mrs Ws policy provided cover. 
However, I think it was always open for QEL to make that decision and ultimately the 
Supreme Court found that QELs decision not to provide cover was incorrect. 
 
QEL have referred to the Insurance Act 2015 but while I consider the law, Im also required 
to make a decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. I 
acknowledge that this might mean I make a decision which is different to one the courts 
reach but in this case I think its fair and reasonable to do so. In reaching a decision on what 
is fair and reasonable Ive taken account of the fact that QEL has had the benefit of money it 
should have paid to Mr and Mrs W and Mr and Mrs W have been without that money. 
 
I think its fair and reasonable to say that QEL should have made interim payments on a 
monthly basis. Therefore [I] think that the start date for the interest on the settlement amount 
for the first month from one month after the claim was made, the second months amount 
from two months after the claim was made and so on to October 2020. I say this because Mr 
and Mrs W took out a Bounce Back loan [BBL] in October 2020, which is 0% for the first year 
and 2.5% interest thereafter. As part of this loan formed the money they should have 
received from QEL I dont think they were without the money for this period. So I dont think 
there would be any interest payable during this time. 
 
QEL said they offered a settlement to Mr and Mrs W in their letters of 2 March and 18 
March. However, I dont agree that these letters were clear to Mr and Mrs W that they could 
accept an interim payment. Having said that, our investigator let Mr and Mrs W know that 
they could request an interim payment on 15 June 2021 whilst continuing to complain about 
the outstanding areas in dispute. Mr and Mrs W refused this so Im not persuaded they 
would have accepted QELs offer in March 2021 if it had been clearer. 
 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs W said they might have accepted if this offer had come from 
QEL rather than our investigator, but I havent seen anything to persuade me of that. 
 
Therefore, I dont think QEL needs to pay interest on the original amount it offered from 
October 2020 as they could have accepted this amount from QEL and settled this portion of 
the loan by the time it needed repaying. 
 
I do think that QEL should pay interest on the additional amount as they have never had the 
option to accept that payment. This should be calculated for the first month from one month 
after the claim was made, the second months amount from two months after the claim was 
made and so on to October 2020 and so on at 8% simple per year. Due to the BBL no 
interest needs to be added between October 2020 and October 2021. From October 2021 
interest on the additional amount should be paid at 2.5% until the date QEL makes 
payment. 
 
I have also considered, that if Mr and Mrs W didnt accept an interim payment in June 2021 
then they might not have accepted an interim payment in April 2020. However, its 
impossible to know now what Mr and W would have done at that time if QEL had offered a 
fair settlement and even if they hadnt accepted, they could then have complained to us 
about the indemnity period at that point, rather than in July 2021 and they might have 
resolved things more quickly.  
So I still think its fair and reasonable to award interest for that period. 
In summary, I said that I intended to require QEL to: 
Add interest to the whole settlement amount for the first month from one month after 
the claim was made, the second months amount from two months after the claim 
was made and so on to October 2020 at 8% simple per annum. 
Add interest on the additional amount (i.e. the amount Mr and Mrs W are due as a 
result of the indemnity period changing to 5 March) from October 2021 until the date 
QEL makes payment, at a rate of 2.5% per annum. 
In response, QEL didnt think it should be required to make any interest payment prior to the 
Supreme Court judgment given that it said the FCA had given insurers permission to await 
the outcome of the test case before deciding liability and settling any claims. QEL said it 
moved swiftly to settle the claim following the Supreme Court judgment.  
QEL said that it had offered Mr and Mrs W an interim payment but hadnt been able to make 
a payment due to their lack of cooperation in providing the required information. It said it 
would have provided a settlement on the agreed amount before any interest on the BBL was 
payable if Mr and Mrs W had cooperated. 
 
Mr and Mrs W said QEL had rejected their claim outright in 2020 and hadnt given any 
indication that the outcome of their claim was being put on hold pending the outcome of the 
test case. They said QEL had never offered them an interim payment and they thought QEL 
should be required to compensate them for the time theyd been without the money.  
Mr and Mrs W also let us know that they had received the funds for their BBL on                 
18 September 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As all parties have accepted that the indemnity period start date is 5 March 2020, Im not 
going to comment on that any further in this decision. Therefore, the remaining issue is 
whether QEL should pay interest on the settlement amount to compensate them for being 
without money. I think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome for QEL to pay 
interest on the settlement it pays Mr and Mrs W. Ill explain why, and how much, below. 
 
Ive considered QELs point that it shouldnt pay interest because it was entitled to wait until 
the Supreme Court judgment. However, I am not persuaded by this argument.  
I can see from a letter issued by Mr and Mrs Ws broker in June 2020 that QEL declined their 
claim because it didnt think the policy provided cover.  
Whilst I appreciate the difficulties insurers faced with claims of this nature, the clarity 
provided by the courts in the test case does not alter the fact that Mr and Mrs W had a valid 
claim and that QELs decision to decline this in June 2020 and was incorrect. When QEL 
then agreed to pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim, it did so using the incorrect indemnity start date. 
QEL has referred to Section 13A of the Insurance Act 2015 which provides a remedy when 
an insurer doesnt pay any sums due within a reasonable time. I understand that, under this 
provision, QEL doesnt think it should pay any damages to Mr and Mrs W.  However, as set out in my email to both parties, while I take account of the law, my role is to 
make a decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My 
role is to consider what a business might or might not have done wrong and to decide on fair 
compensation if things didnt happen as they should have. 
In this case, while Ive considered what QEL has said about Section 13 A of the Insurance 
Act 2015, the DISP Rules allow me to make, amongst other things, a money and interest 
award for what I consider to be fair compensation if a complaint is determined in the favour 
of the complainant. In this case, my decision is based on what I think is fair compensation to 
put Mr and Mrs W back in the position they would have been in if QEL hadnt made an error 
in turning down their claim and in using the incorrect indemnity start date. I acknowledge that 
my decision might be different to one which a court might make. But in this case I think its 
fair and reasonable to do so. 
As an incorrect decision was made on the claim, I think it is reasonable to say that this 
should not have happened, and that Mr and Mrs Ws claim should instead have been met at 
the time it was made using an indemnity start date of 5 March 2020. Because this did not 
happen, Mr and Mrs W have been left without funds that they otherwise would have had, 
and as they have been without this money, I believe that it is fair and reasonable to add 
interest to the settlement to compensate them for this loss.  
Ive noted QELs point regarding the FCA guidance, but I am unaware of any guidance from 
the FCA that indicates that interest should not be added to the settlement of a valid claim in 
circumstances such as this. 
The period of interest 
In relation to an ongoing claim of this nature, it is reasonable that an insurer waits for losses 
to accrue before making settlement. However, it is not necessarily reasonable that an insurer 
wait for the end of an indemnity period before making settlement. Generally speaking, I 
would expect regular monthly payments to be made. 
It is also reasonable that an insurer will need some time to assess any claim and make a 
settlement. I consider a reasonable time to do this on a claim of this nature would be around 
a month from when Mr and Mrs W made their claim on 15 April 2020. I dont consider the 
existence of the FCA test case alters this in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I remain satisfied that its fair and reasonable for QEL to add 8% simple interest per annum 
to the whole settlement, including the additional three days indemnity, for the first months 
loss from one month after the claim was made, the second months loss from two months 
after the claim was made, and so on, until the date Mr and Mrs W received the funds for their 
BBL. They have now confirmed this was on 18 September 2020 which is why this date is 
different to the date within my provisional findings. 
I dont think QEL need pay interest on the whole amount beyond 18 September 2020 as Mr 
and Mrs W took out a BBL for more than the total of their claim, at 0% interest for the first 
year. So for one year from the point when these funds were received, they werent 
experiencing a loss due to QELs error. 
I understand that interest became payable on the BBL at 2.5% from 18 September 2021. 
However, I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome for QEL to pay 
interest on the whole settlement from that date as it was clearly available to Mr and Mrs W to 
accept an interim payment prior to 18 September 2021 that would have allowed them to pay 
off the balance of the loan before interest was due.  Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ws point that they dont believe they were offered an interim payment 
by QEL. While I can see that QEL did offer to start to progress their claim in March 2021, I 
dont think it was clear to Mr and Mrs W that they could accept an interim settlement at this 
stage. However, as I set out in my email to both parties, I dont think QELs lack of clarity 
around this makes a difference because Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs W would most 
likely have accepted an interim settlement if it had been offered. This is because our 
investigator let Mr and Mrs W know this could be arranged but Mr and Mrs W still refused as 
they wanted to wait until their complaint had been resolved.  
However, given QEL has only recently confirmed its acceptance of an indemnity start date of 
5 March, I dont think Mr and Mrs W have at any point had the option of an interim settlement 
for the additional amount they are due as a result of this later start to the indemnity period. I 
think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome for QEL to pay interest at 2.5% on the 
additional three days indemnity from the date they started to accrue interest on their BBL 
which would be 18 September 2021 to the date QEL makes payment. I think this rate is fair 
and reasonable as thats the amount of interest Mr and Mrs W will be paying on their BBL.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my email dated 25 July 2022, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim on the basis that the indemnity start date is 5 March 2020.
Add interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum on the whole settlement amount for 
the first months amount from one month after the claim was made, the second 
months amount from two months after the claim was made and so on until the date 
Mr and Mrs W received their funds through a BBL on 18 September 2020. 
Add interest at a rate of 2.5% per annum on the additional settlement amount (i.e. 
any difference in amount due to the start date changing to 5 March 2020) from the 
date interest became payable on their BBL on 18 September 2021 until the date QEL 
makes payment. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman