DRN-2691157
The complaint
Mr B complains that, when he applied online for an account with Santander UK Plc, the 
account was opened but later blocked. He received notice from Santander to say it was 
withdrawing its banking facilities and the account was closed.
Mr B says he wants the account reinstated and compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused.
What happened
Mr B applied for an account online. The account was opened and he credited it with £100.
Around a week later, the account was blocked and he received 30 days notice that the 
account would be closed. Santander told him it made its decision having reviewed some 
additional information. It told him how to withdraw his money and how to find out what 
information was recorded about him with the credit reference agencies and the UKs fraud 
prevention agencies.
Mr B complained to Santander and told it that hed discovered the CIFAS markers that had 
been recorded against his name by a third-party bank had been recorded wrongly, and that 
he was seeking to get these removed.
Santander said it would review its decision to close his account if the markers were 
removed. And it paid Mr B £50 for the inconvenience of having to go to a branch to withdraw 
his money.
Our investigator couldnt conclude that Santander had acted unfairly.
Mr B didnt agree. He said, in summary, that he shouldnt be discriminated against for having 
a CIFAS marker recorded against his name.
After our investigator had communicated her conclusions, we were made aware that the 
third-party bank had agreed to remove the two CIFAS markers it had recorded against Mr 
Bs name. We passed this information onto Santander and asked it to review its decision to 
close Mr Bs account, as it had previously offered it would. Santander told us it would not 
change its decision. It said its decision had not been made solely due to the CIFAS markers.
My provisional decision
I thought Santander had done something wrong, but that the compensation it had already 
paid was fair. I set out the reasons why Id reached that conclusion. I said:
In coming to my decision, Ive considered whether Santander has treated Mr B fairly 
taking into account the relevant law, regulations and guidance. Ive considered in 
particular the account terms and conditions and guidance from CIFAS.
The account terms and conditions say that Santander can close an account at any 
time, without giving a reason. But that, if it decides to close an account, well give 
you at least two months notice. In Mr Bs case, Santander gave him one months 
notice  although in practice he wasnt given any notice as Santander placed an 
immediate block on his account.
The account terms do allow for accounts to be closed with immediate notice in 
certain circumstances. The terms say that it is a condition that the account holder 
does not:
a) act abusively, offensively or violently towards our staff; or
b) become bankrupt; or
c) misuse your account; or
d) act dishonestly with us; or
e) act in any way to give rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal 
activities.
Santander told us that, after the account had been opened, it carried out further 
checks. It didnt specifically tell Mr B what term it was relying on when it closed his 
account without notice. But, from what it did say, it seems that it closed the account 
because it suspected fraud.
I wouldnt expect Santander to close Mr Bs account simply because of a CIFAS 
marker. CIFAS guidance says:
Before providing services, goods or finance or when employing a new staff member, 
CIFAS
members can undertake checks against the database. If a CIFAS record is returned 
as a
result of these checks a member must not simply reject an application or close a 
facility and
they are required to carry out further investigation to confirm that the personal data 
provided
on the application is correct.
Ive not seen evidence from Santander to satisfy me that it did carry out an 
investigation. It seems to have undertaken some further electronic checks, which I 
accept did give it some further cause for concern. But Ive not seen evidence that it 
asked Mr B any questions about the CIFAS loadings, or that it made any enquires 
with the bank that had recorded them.
I dont think Santander did enough to evidence that Mr B might be a risk to Santander 
or that he breached the terms and conditions of the account. The account wasnt 
open long enough for Mr B to carry out any transactions that might give rise to a 
suspicion of fraud. And Ive not seen evidence to show that there is a link between 
the CIFAS markers and the other checks Santander carried out after Mr B had 
opened the account. Im not persuaded that Santander has done enough to 
demonstrate that Mr B has breached the account holder conditions listed above.
But, as noted earlier, Santander could have closed the account without giving Mr B 
any reason provided it gave him two months notice. I think this what should have 
fairly happened here.
Because the account was closed without notice, Mr B had to visit a branch with 
identification to withdraw his money. Santander acknowledged that this was inconvenient for Mr B and paid him £50 compensation. Ive considered carefully 
whether this is a fair amount of compensation in the circumstances.
Mr B had to go to the trouble of visiting a Santander branch with identification to 
withdraw his money, and I think £50 fairly compensates him for that inconvenience. 
Its clear Santanders decision to close Mr Bs account was deeply upsetting for him. 
But, even if Santander hadnt made a mistake, Mr B would most likely still be in the 
same position. The only difference would have been that he would have received 
more notice about the closure. And Im satisfied hes already been fairly 
compensated for that. In reaching this conclusion Ive also taken into account that Mr 
B had only just opened the account. The closure of an account is likely to be more 
troubling and upsetting where it is a long-standing account.
Santander was limited in what it was able to tell Mr B about the investigation it had 
carried out, and I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr B. But I think Santander gave Mr 
B enough information to allow him to find out what information the various agencies 
had recorded about him.
I understand Mr B's strength of feeling on this matter. But I dont think its appropriate 
for me to order Santander to reinstate his account. And I think he has been fairly 
compensated for the inconvenience he was caused.
Neither party agreed with my provisional decision.
Santander said, in summary, that:
It didnt reject Mr Bs application without carrying out a full investigation and it didnt base 
its decision on the CIFAS markers alone.
The immediate closure of the account was in line with its terms and conditions  and it 
quoted 17.2 and 17.3.
Mr B said, in summary, that:
The evidence from the third-party bank  which removed the CIFAS markers recorded 
against him  has not been considered.
Santander closed his account based on the CIFAS markers alone, so it hasnt followed 
the proper process.
He wants this service to send Santander the letter from the third-party bank and to order 
Santander to reinstate his account.
Santander has discriminated against him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what both parties have said in response to my provisional decision. 
But it hasnt changed my conclusion.
Santander says it carried out a full investigation. Id already addressed this in my provisional decision. I said I hadnt seen evidence from Santander to satisfy me that it did carry out an 
investigation  other than some further electronic checks. And it hasnt provided any 
additional evidence now. For that reason, I remain unpersuaded that Santander did enough 
to demonstrate that it acted correctly, and fairly, when it closed Mr Bs account without giving 
him two months notice.
I explained in my provisional decision why I thought Santander had done enough to 
compensate Mr B. I agree with him that it didnt treat him fairly when it closed his account 
without giving him the required notice. But it could reasonably still have closed his account if 
it had given him two months notice. So I cant order it to reinstate his account now.
This service had already told Santander that the third-party bank had removed the CIFAS 
markers. But I dont find Santander is obliged to take any action as a result of the third-party 
banks decision. 
I think Mr B has been treated unfairly by Santander to the extent set out above. But I havent 
seen anything directly to suggest that this was a result of his background. Im satisfied what 
happened was purely linked to the data that Santander found and not anything else.
I understand Mr B would like his account reinstated. But I dont think thats appropriate. 
Theres nothing to suggest that Santander has recorded something against him which might 
be preventing him from getting new facilities elsewhere. So, it follows that Im not going to 
ask Santander to do more  the compensation that its already paid for Mr B having to go to 
a branch to withdraw his money is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
require Santander UK Plc to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman