DRN-3880557
The complaint
Mrs A complains about delays and service issues when trying to withdraw her money from 
Santander UK Plc.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mrs A had a bank account with Santander. Late last year, a third party (Mr W) contacted 
Santander on Mrs As behalf to ask for her funds to be transferred. Mrs A now lives abroad.
Santander says Mrs As account was blocked for Know Your Customer (KYC) purposes and 
needed updated identification before funds could be withdrawn. Santander received Mr Ws 
correspondence but responded to Mrs A. Santander went on to receive various pieces of 
identification and spoke with Mrs A. The account block was removed and funds sent to Mrs 
A by cheque.
Mr Ws told us the cheque took several weeks to arrive and Mrs A then had to pay for it to be 
cleared by collection.
Santander issued a final response but didnt agree it had made mistakes or treated Mrs A 
unfairly. An investigator at this service looked at Mrs As complaint.
The investigator asked Santander to pay Mrs A £40 to cover the fee for depositing the 
cheque but didnt award further compensation. On Mrs As behalf, Mr W asked to appeal. As 
a result, Mrs As complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Ive taken the step of issuing a provisional decision as whilst I agree with the overall outcome 
the investigator reached, Ive come to my decision for different reasons. As a result, I need 
to give both parties a chance to respond before I make my final decision. Mr Ws told us he 
feels Santanders failure to communicate with him directly as well as the failure to act on his 
instructions, on behalf of Mrs A, forms part of the complaint. And I agree thats the case. 
Mr W made these points in the complaint form on Mrs As behalf which has been forwarded 
to Santander. And Santander has specifically commented concerning whether it could act on 
Mr Ws instructions within its submissions. I agree these issues form part of Mrs As 
complaint.
I understand Mr W feels Santander placed an unreasonable number of obstacles in their 
way when trying to withdraw funds on Mrs As behalf. But when Mr W initially contacted 
Santander with a view of arranging a transfer, there was an account block in place. 
Santanders told us Mrs As account was blocked as it didnt have up to date identification on 
file for KYC purposes. And Santanders also explained it couldnt remove the account block 
until it had up to date and acceptable identification for Mrs A.
I know Mr W was working on Mrs As behalf. But Santanders confirmed that it didnt have 
third party authority from Mrs A to confirm that. As a result, whilst Santander was able to 
correspond with Mrs A on receipt of correspondence from Mr W, it wasnt able to respond 
directly to him or release private information. Nor was Santander able to arrange for the 
funds to be sent to Mrs A before speaking with her directly. 
Mr Ws told us that Mrs A is elderly and requires assistance for banking matters. I dont 
doubt that to be the case, but without either an active Power of Attorney arrangement 
registered within the UK or completion of the third party authority process, Santander was 
unable to correspond directly with Mr W or accept his instructions on Mrs As behalf.
The process of adding a third party with authority to give instructions, including withdrawals 
and instructions to close, is set out on Santanders website. A customer wishing to give a 
third party authority to carry out banking activities on their behalf has to fill out the relevant 
form and appoint a qualifying individual. Whilst I can see Mr W was corresponding with 
Santander, the third party authority process wasnt completed. So Santander had no 
authority to discuss Mrs As account directly with Mr W or act on his instructions.
I can see Mr W was seeking to arrange transfer of Mrs As funds for several months, but Im 
satisfied Santander didnt have third party authority recorded so wasnt able to act on his 
instructions or correspond with him. Whilst I note Mr Ws complaint that Santander failed to 
effectively communicate with him, Im satisfied it didnt have authority to do so.
In mid 2021 Santander applied a block to Mrs As account for KYC purposes as it didnt have 
up to date identification on file. Santander went on to receive an expired passport along with 
identification from the country Mrs A now resides in. Santander had to obtain a translation 
and, once on file, removed the account block. I know Mr W feels the steps were longwinded 
and inconvenient. But I think that reflects the fact the account instructions were being 
received from Mr W and Santander then had to correspond with Mrs A. I havent found that 
the process was unreasonably delayed.
Mr Ws explained Mrs A wanted a transfer, not cheque, and that depositing the cheque for 
collection led to fees and losses. Weve asked Santander why it sent the cheque in place of 
a transfer. Santander says that after speaking with Mrs A if felt the most secure approach to 
ensure she received the funds was to send a cheque. There was a delay, but the cheque 
was successfully received and deposited for collection. So whilst I accept things took longer 
than normal, I think that reflects that Mrs As account was blocked, her location in another 
country and the fact Santander was receiving instructions from Mr W who wasnt an 
authorised third party to the account.
Our investigator said Santander should pay Mrs A £40 to cover the fee for depositing the 
cheque by collection. I think thats a reasonable way to resolve Mrs As complaint given it 
was Santanders choice to use a cheque and Mrs A had to pay a fee. So I intend to award 
£40 in line with the investigators view.I invited both parties to respond with any further comments they wanted me to consider. In 
summary, Mr W highlighted information from Santander that said it would consider a 
complaint brought by a third party on behalf of a customer and said he had no intention to 
give instructions to the bank. Mr W said they shouldve let him know if he was acting without 
sufficient authority. Mr W said the length of time taken to issue the refund after receiving 
identification was unacceptable. Mr W also reiterated his view Santanders decision to send 
the funds via cheque in the post was unreasonable and lacked security. 
Santander responded to confirm it accepts the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr W for the level of detail hes given when responding on Mrs As behalf. In 
his response, Mr W said he wasnt seeking to give instructions to Santander but was trying 
to communicate with it to help assist with Mrs As instructions. But Ive looked over the 
emails and contact with Santander and remain of the view there was no authority on file for it 
to communicate with him about the detail of Mrs As banking arrangements or deal with Mr 
W as a third party acting on her behalf. In short, there was nothing on file from Santanders 
perspective from Mrs A that showed Mr W was communicating with it on her behalf. And, as 
I noted in my provisional decision, theres a standard process for appointing a third party to 
communicate and act on a customers behalf.
I can see that emails from Mr W did lead to contact being made with Mrs A at various times. 
I appreciate it mayve felt that Santander were being difficult in terms of the level of 
communication with Mr W. But for the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional 
decision Im satisfied it acted fairly. 
Mr Ws highlighted that Santander will deal with a complaint via a third party on a customers 
behalf. But that would be subject to the necessary third party authority being provided by the 
customer. 
I understand Mr Ws view that sending a cheque lacked the necessary security. But the 
cheque was received by Mrs A and successfully deposited. And Santanders contact notes 
show that when it spoke with Mrs A she agreed for a cheque to be sent in place of a transfer. 
So whilst I note Mr Ws comments and view, I havent been persuaded Santander acted 
unreasonably. 
Identification was sent to Santander at the end of March 2022 and the funds were 
transferred around three and a half months later. But I think its reasonable to say the 
identification submitted as an expired passport and identification card. Translation was 
required before the identification could be processed and withdrawal approved. I agree that 
took a reasonable length of time, but Im satisfied that reflects the account block and 
requirement to process Mrs As identification. I havent seen evidence that shows the time 
taken led to a financial loss for Mrs A or an unreasonable level of inconvenience. 
I remain of the view that the fairest way to resolve Mrs As complaint is for Santander to pay 
her £40 to cover the fee she incurred when depositing the cheque. As a result, Im going to 
proceed on that basis.  My final decision
My decision is that Santander should pay Mrs A £40. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman