DRN-3601729
The complaint
Mrs P has complained Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect her when she fell victim to a 
romance scam.
What happened
Mrs P fell victim to a cruel scam, in which she was tricked into sending money to an 
individual she believed she was in a relationship with, on the understanding it would later be 
repaid to her. 
In January 2020 Mrs P made a connection on an online dating app with a person Ill refer to 
as A. Mrs P explained that over the coming months, they developed what she believed to be 
a close relationship. They communicated daily by telephone, video message and other 
means. Mrs P says they had started planning a future together. 
Mrs P explained that A first asked her for money in February 2020, as hed exhausted his 
funds while away on business. She initially transferred him approximately £1,400. Mrs P 
explained she transferred him various amounts from other bank accounts over the following 
months and that A had always promised to pay her back.   
In June 2020 Mrs P opened an account with Revolut. Between July 2020 and April 2021, on 
As instruction, Mrs P made 18 bank transfers totalling £95,060 to four payees. Mrs P 
explained that she understood the money was supporting A in various business deals and to 
cover additional expenses that had been incurred because of the global pandemic. 
On 13 December 2021 Mrs P contacted Revolut and told it shed been the victim of a 
romance scam. She explained shed realised shed been scammed following intervention 
from her family. Shed told them that A had continued to ask her for more money and had 
started enquiring about the value of her home and pensions. She asked for Revoluts help to 
recover the funds shed lost. 
Revolut investigated the matter. It issued final responses in January and February 2022, 
concluding it had no obligation to reimburse Mrs P for her loss. It said it had given Mrs P 
standard fraud and scam warnings when she set up new payees. It had asked her to confirm 
she trusted the new beneficiaries and informed her she could potentially be a victim of fraud. 
It said it had also declined the last transaction Mrs P had tried to make on 29 April 2021, a 
transfer of £10,500 to a new payee. But having been warned it could be a scam, Mrs P 
reinstructed the transfer. Revolut confirmed it wouldnt refund the money Mrs P lost as shed 
authorised the transactions and it had processed them correctly.
Mrs P complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service as she thought shed been treated 
unfairly. She noted that other banks had refunded her for other transactions shed made 
from other accounts. She said Revolut should have intervened and stopped her from making 
large regular transactions that she could not sustain on her income. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. She explained that while she thought 
Revolut should have contacted Mrs P before following her payment instructions  as it had 
identified at least one transaction as unusual or suspicious  she didnt think this would 
ultimately have made a difference. She noted A had built Mrs Ps trust over a number of 
months and Mrs P didnt believe she was being scammed. Our Investigator also noted that 
when Revolut later asked Mrs P about the nature of the transactions she wasnt honest 
about their purpose, saying the transfers were for family. Our Investigator concluded that no 
intervention from Revolut could have stopped the scam from taking place, so Revolut was 
not ultimately responsible for Mrs Ps loss. 
Mrs P disagreed and asked for her case to be considered by an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. She said had Revolut intervened she would not have continued with the 
transactions and would not have suffered the loss she has. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. I know this will be upsetting news for Mrs P. 
Im extremely sorry to learn about what happened to Mrs P. Its clear she has been the 
innocent victim of a cruel and calculated scam that caused her to lose a very large sum of 
money. In the circumstances, I can appreciate why she would want to do all she can to 
recover the money she lost. But I need to decide whether Revolut can fairly and reasonably 
be held responsible for Mrs Ps loss. For the reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont think it can 
and overall, I cant say Mrs P has been treated unfairly.
I understand that Mrs P has received refunds from other banks she holds accounts with, in 
relation to this scam. But I should explain that banks and electronic money institutes (EMIs), 
such as Revolut, are bound by different rules and codes of practice. So, while Mrs P may 
have been reimbursed by one bank, it doesnt necessarily follow that Revolut should do the 
same. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Its accepted that Mrs P authorised each of the transactions, that together totalled £95,060, 
from her Revolut account. While its turned out these transactions were part of a scam, 
under the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of her account, shes 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Revolut to take additional 
steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
An example of this would be payment instructions which are sufficiently unusual, suspicious, 
or uncharacteristic for the usual use of the account. In such circumstances Id expect 
Revolut to intervene and ask more questions about the intended transaction before 
processing it. Id also expect it to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help its 
customers make an informed decision about whether they want to continue with the 
payment. There might also be cases where it would be appropriate for Revolut to refuse to 
follow a valid payment instruction if there are good grounds to believe it is being made 
because of a fraud or scam.Did Revolut do enough to identify the risk of financial harm from fraud?
Revolut has explained that the first 17 transactions didnt flag on its system as unusual, 
suspicious, or uncharacteristic, such that it needed to intervene beyond providing very 
generic scam advice when Mrs P set up new payees. Im inclined to agree. 
At the time Mrs P instructed the first transfer on 10 July 2020, the account had been open for 
less than 30 days. So, Revolut had very limited historical account activity to say this 
transaction was particularly unusual or uncharacteristic. While the transaction was relatively 
large, £4,300, I wouldnt consider this alone would make the transaction appear particularly 
suspicious. Similarly, while setting up a new payee might in some circumstances be an 
indicator of increased risk associated with a payment, this wouldnt have been unexpected 
with a new account as there will be no existing payees already linked to the account.  
Once the initial transfer had been completed, the later transactions appeared to be in 
keeping with the usual account usage. While there were a series of transactions, these were 
over a nine month period, and so I dont think Revolut should reasonably have spotted a 
pattern of unusual behaviour - unlike if multiple payments had been made in a single day or 
much shorter space of time. So, I cant reasonably conclude Revolut should have intervened 
in the first 17 transactions.  
Revolut has demonstrated that it did intervene in the last transfer Mrs P instructed on 
29 April 2021. It presented her with a generic warning through her banking app that the 
transaction had been identified as highly suspicious. It advised her not to make the 
transaction again, but that if she did, she may lose her money and never get it back. 
I agree with our Investigator that Revoluts intervention here wasnt sufficient. It should have 
asked Mrs P about her intended transaction and given her tailored scam warnings. So, Ive 
gone on to consider whether an appropriate intervention by Revolut would have made a 
difference or prevented Mrs Ps loss. 
Would appropriate intervention have prevented Mrs Ps loss?
Mrs P says that if Revolut had challenged her about the payments and made her aware of 
the risks it would have uncovered what was happening and prevented her loss. But Im not 
persuaded that appropriate intervention from Revolut would necessarily have uncovered the 
scam. 
From time to time banks and EMIs may contact their customers about transactions. Revolut 
did contact Mrs P about her transactions in June and December 2021, but not due to 
concerns that she might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. She advised it that the 
payments were for family purposes; loaned for extended family purposes use and loan to 
family/friends due to pandemic. I have no reason to think Mrs P would have given different 
answers had Revolut asked her about the transactions when she first made the payment 
instructions. As Mrs P advised Revolut she was paying friends and family I dont think it 
would necessarily have identified a potential scam risk. But even if it had, I dont think its 
likely it would have persuaded Mrs P to have done anything differently. 
Mrs P has explained that she had been in contact with A since January 2020, six months 
before she instructed the first transfer with Revolut. Shes explained she spoke to him daily 
and he took an active interest in her life, health, and family. He also shared photos of him 
and his family. Its evident this was a very calculated and convincing scam and Mrs P clearly 
trusted A implicitly. Even when she was complaining to Revolut Mrs P revealed that she still held out hope that she would get her money back from A, suggesting that she still had some 
faith in what hed told her. 
In these circumstances I think its highly unlikely, even if presented with clear and tailored 
scam warnings, Mrs P would have recognised she was being scammed. 
I think its also significant that by the time Mrs P started using her Revolut account, shed 
already been using other bank accounts to transfer money to A. So, the first transfer she 
made through her Revolut account did not represent the start of the scam. While it may be 
easier to break the spell of this type of a scam soon after its inception, I think this would 
have become increasingly less likely as Mrs P became more invested, romantically and 
financially, in the relationship.
Did Revolut do enough to attempt to recover the lost funds? 
Revolut has said that once notified of the fraud it contacted the beneficiary banks to see if 
any funds remained in the scammers account that could be returned to Mrs P. 
Unfortunately, no funds remained by the time the scam was notified. I dont find this 
surprising, as the transactions had taken place at least six months before the scam was 
notified and in most cases, money is moved on from the receiving accounts soon after the 
funds are received. 
Revolut is only required to attempt recovery on a best endeavours basis. As such, Im 
satisfied it did all it was required to do, and I cant ask it to do anything further in respect of 
the lost funds. 
  
Having considered everything, I dont think Revolut treated Mrs P unfairly when it refused to 
reimburse her for her losses. While I naturally sympathise with Mrs P in all thats happened, I 
must recognise that the principal cause of her loss was A, the scammer who deceived her. 
While I realise that the scam has had a devastating impact on Mrs P, I cannot see any basis 
on which I can fairly instruct Revolut to bear the responsibility for the loss. 
I am very sorry to have to deliver this news to Mrs P. I know this isnt the answer she is
hoping for. I cant even begin to imagine how upsetting the last few years have been for her.
It is clear that she has been through so much and to reach this point has been a difficult
struggle.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman