DRN-2236785
The complaint
Miss R complains that PSA Finance UK Limited delayed in dealing with the voluntary 
termination of her finance agreement with them and, as result, she incurred additional costs 
and payments. Shed like these costs and charges to be waived as well as compensation for 
the upset and inconvenience shes had.
What happened
On 25 June 2016 Miss R acquired a new car with the benefit of a hire purchase agreement 
with PSA. In 2018 Miss R decided to exercise her right to end the agreement early by 
Voluntary Termination (VT). She arranged to have some minor issues repaired at the local 
main dealership and for the car to be collected from there. The car was handed back to the 
dealership on 15 December 2018.
Miss R understood the dealership would contact PSA about the VT but when this didnt 
happen, she contacted it on 10 January 2020. She explained that she was overseas and the 
forms would need to be signed by her grandmother or emailed to her. 
PSA said Ms R needed to sign them but on 13 January, it posted the VT forms to Miss R at 
her home address. She wasnt there so on 31 January they were emailed to Miss R, who 
signed and returned them to PSA on 2 February.
This was followed on 19 February by an email from PSA to Miss R asking her to pay the £79 
collection fee but Miss R said shed already paid this. PSA also notified Miss R that she was 
liable to pay the balance on the two insurance policies taken out by her when she acquired 
the car. The total due for these was £464.02.
Following the collection of the car, an inspection was carried out on 20 February 2019 which 
advised that there were 2 missing services, which would be charged at £200 each, plus a 
further £48 for a dent in the righthand door. 
Miss R complained about the way this had been dealt with. She says she had to request the 
VT documents three times before they were sent and then the documents were sent by post 
and not emailed as shed asked for. She says the delay in sending the documents meant 
shed had to pay two additional monthly payments which shed like PSA to refund these as 
well as compensation for her upset and inconvenience.
 
In its response PSA said it had contacted the dealership, who confirmed the services had 
been carried out. Although the service book hadnt been stamped, PSA agreed to remove 
the £400 charge for this as a gesture of goodwill. It also agreed to remove the £48 for the 
dent in the rear door although it said there was evidence of this damage.
PSA said Miss R was liable to pay the monthly instalments up to the 2 February 2019, the 
date shed signed and returned the VT forms. However, it offered to deduct Januarys 
payment of £253.24 from the balance of £464.02. This left an outstanding balance of 
£210.78 which PSA offered to reduce further by £79 (equivalent to the vehicle return fee) 
leaving a final balance due of £131.78.  If this was paid in full it would be reduced by 
another 20% leaving a balance due of £105.42. Miss R paid this on 3 May.
A Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He noted the reductions PSA had made 
which had reduced the initial balance from £912.02 to £105.42. However, he felt thered 
been an unreasonable delay in sending the VT documents to Miss R. As she was travelling 
overseas with limited access to wifi or printers to deal with the forms, this had caused her 
undue stress. Hed seen Miss R had told PSA shed be away travelling before she arranged 
to hand back the car so PSA was aware of this and should have taken it into account. He 
recommended PSA pay Miss R £200 compensation for this in addition to the reductions 
already made.
PSA didnt agree. It said it had already made significant reductions and didnt feel that a 
further £200 compensation was reasonable. It offered £100 which it considered to be more 
appropriate.
On 28 August 2020 a second view was issued. The investigator looked first at the charges 
applied- and then waived- by PSA. She agreed PSA had been entitled to charge for the 
damage to the rear door but not for the missing service history as the garage had later 
confirmed the services had been done. Taking this into account the reduction had been £48 
(not £448) plus the £79 for the vehicle return fee, making a total of £127. She also 
acknowledged that PSA had offset Januarys payment of £250 against the balances due on 
the insurance policies. 
She acknowledged Miss R had had to chase PSA for the VT documents and this had been 
particularly stressful due to her being out of the UK at the time but it was also clear that 
some of the delay had been caused by the dealership for which PSA wasnt responsible. 
Taking that into account, along with the reductions already made, she considered that the 
£100 offered by PSA was fair and, for that reason, she wouldnt be asking it to pay anything 
more.
Miss R disagreed and felt £100 wasnt sufficient for the impact of what had happened. She 
asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I consider that the offer of £100 compensation by PSA is fair as Ill now 
explain.
The background to this complaint has been set out above but in brief, Miss R had taken out 
a hire purchase agreement with PSA in 2016. Realising that shed be away travelling for a 
significant time at the end of 2018 and beginning of 2019 she decided to end the agreement 
early and return the car. Having spoken to PSA about a voluntary termination in September 
2018, she told it she planned to return the car in December.  
On 16 December Miss R took the car to the local main dealership to have some minor 
repairs carried out prior to its return. She understood the car would be collected from there 
that the dealership would request the relevant VT forms from PSA. Ive seen a number of 
emails between Miss R and the dealership about this but it seems that PSA wasnt aware the car was to be collected until Miss R contacted it herself on 10 January.  For that reason, 
Im looking only at what PSA did after 10 January with regard to this matter.
Ive seen Miss R told PSA in this call that shed be out of the UK for 6 months. At that point 
Id have expected PSA to have considered how it could facilitate the VT process, not least as 
Miss R had by this point made the car available for collection and was clearly keen to finalise 
the arrangement as soon as possible. However, despite this call, PSA didnt tell Miss R 
immediately what she needed to do to receive the VT documents by email and instead 
posted them to her at her UK address. It wasnt until 31 January, and after more calls from 
Miss R, that the documents were emailed by PSA for Miss R to complete.
Miss R made it clear she was concerned about the delay, and the fact she was still having to 
make payments for the car shed already returned.  Thats understandable, as was her 
frustration at being asked to pay the vehicle return fee when this had already been paid. In 
the circumstances I dont consider PSA dealt with his as well as it could. 
PSA has already acknowledged this to a degree. It offset the January payment against the 
outstanding balance on the insurance policies. Its also waived the vehicle return fee and the 
other fees identified in the inspection report.  
Ive seen there some dispute as to the actual value of the reductions already made. PSA 
says they amount to £448 plus the £79 vehicle return fee. Miss R says its less as the £400 
charge for the missing service stamps wasnt reasonable as the car had been serviced as 
required and this was later confirmed by the dealership. Under the BVRLA guidelines the car 
is required to have a complete service history so I cant agree PSA were wrong to charge for 
this. 
Putting things right
In this case Im satisfied that the delay in resolving this matter- and the uncertainty- did have 
a significant impact on Miss R and affected her enjoyment of her holiday. At the time this 
was happening, Miss R was travelling overseas and had limited access to wifi or other 
facilities. This inevitably this made communication more difficult and the situation more 
stressful than it might otherwise have been and Im satisfied PSA was aware of this.
I note Miss R says that the way this was dealt with affected not only her but also on her 
grandmother and this needs to be taken into account. I appreciate this was a difficult time for 
Miss R and her family but under the rule of this service I can only ask PSA to compensate 
Miss R for the inconvenience shes had and not for anyone else. 
Having said that, I dont consider that the reductions already made are sufficient to reflect 
the impact of what happened on Miss R and for that reason, Ive decided it would be 
reasonable for PSA to also pay Miss R compensation. I note PSA has offered to pay a 
further £100 and, taking the other reductions into account, I consider that this is fair 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint in part and direct PSA Finance UK 
Limited to pay Miss R a further £100 compensation for her upset and inconvenience caused 
by its delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2020. 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman