DRN-3234609
The complaint
Mrs L complained that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as AEGON (Aegon) declined her 
claim on a joint life assurance policy, following the death of her husband. 
What happened
Mrs L and her late husband, Mr S, took out a joint, decreasing term life assurance policy on 
19 November 2019. The policy term was 22 years and the initial sum assured was £350,000. 
The policy also included reducing critical illness protection and total permanent disability 
benefit, with an initial sum assured of £45,000. The policy was taken out through an 
Independent Financial Advisor (IFA). 
Sadly, Mr S took his own life on 10 November 2020. When Mrs L submitted a claim to 
Aegon, she was told the claim would not be considered. Aegon said this was because the 
policy contained a suicide exclusion clause that meant a claim would not be paid for any 
death by suicide that happened within the first twelve months of the policy.  
Mrs L told Aegon it didnt have enough information at that point to determine whether the 
exclusion applied. She said the interim death certificate didnt state that her husbands death 
was a suicide. And, in any event, Aegon hadnt asked her for a copy of the interim certificate. 
Mrs L said Aegons reason for including the exclusion clause in the policy was to prevent a 
suicide being planned in advance of taking out a policy. But she said she and her husband 
already had a life policy for some time prior to taking out a new policy with Aegon and that 
the new policy was taken out when they bought a new home. So this, alongside her late 
husbands death being unexpected, meant its clear the policy was not taken out because of 
any intention on her late husbands part to end his life. 
Mrs L contacted Aegon in December 2020 to enquire about what steps she would need to 
take to ensure she continued to have life and critical illness cover. She raised a complaint 
about how the call handler dealt with her query; about receiving reminder letters telling her to 
pay policy premiums; not receiving promised call backs and being sent text messages and 
calls chasing premiums. 
Aegon responded and said the call handler could have dealt with Mrs Ls query better, if its 
systems had more accurately reflected the position. So it apologised and sent Mrs L a 
hamper. However, it said the calls and text messages about premiums appear to have been 
sent by the IFA who originally set up the policy for Mrs L. It said it also seemed to have been 
the IFA who failed to call Mrs L back as promised. Aegon said that since it agreed to set up a 
claim only one premium reminder letter had been sent out and then further reminder letters 
were automatically stopped. Aegon said the IFA was independent from Aegon, but it agreed 
to write to them and raise a complaint on Mrs Ls behalf, which it did in February 2021. 
Aegon contacted Mrs L in June 2021 to say it was aware the Coroners Inquest had recently 
ruled Mr Ss death as suicide. It consulted with its reinsurer and legal team and considered 
the terms of the policy, and decided to apply the suicide exclusion. So the claim was turned 
down. Aegon said it had great sympathy for Mrs L and her family, but felt its position was 
correct and was fair to other customers who may have found themselves in similar 
circumstances.  
Mrs L appealed, but Aegon did not change its decision. It said it had to base its decision on 
evidence from the Coroner, and this confirmed a verdict of suicide, which it specifically 
excluded during the first twelve months of the policy. It looked at Mrs Ls point about having 
paid the full twelve months of premiums. But said premiums are paid in advance and 
payment of the twelfth premium does not mean the suicide exclusion does not apply. 
Mrs L remained unhappy and so complained to this service. She said Aegon had steadfastly 
maintained its position, with no explanation as to why it must do so, when in the same 
circumstances it would have paid the claim one week later. Mrs L said it failed to look at the 
individual merits of her claim. Mrs L also complained about the handling of the claim by 
Aegon including that it refused to allow a claim in the first week, provided contradictory 
advice, chased her about continuing to make payments for single life cover and told her it 
could look at offering premium refunds if the claim was unsuccessful. Mrs L said she met the 
terms of the life insurance policy by paying twelve premiums, so a years cover. She said her 
husband had not intended to commit suicide at the time he took out the policy. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. He said he could see the policy had a 
suicide exclusion that was applied in line with the policy terms and conditions, and so Aegon 
hadnt done anything wrong in declining the claim. Our investigator also said Aegon didnt 
need to take further action in relation to the complaint about the service it provided. 
Mrs L disagreed with what our investigator said. She said her husbands death occurred 
without any warning or indication. She felt this situation was unique in its timing and so a 
different approach should be applied. As Mrs L didnt agree with what our investigator said, 
this complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
First of all I want to offer my condolences to Mrs L and her family. I appreciate this must be a 
very difficult and upsetting time for them. But although I have a great deal of sympathy for 
them and the situation they find themselves in, I am not upholding Mrs Ls complaint. I know 
this will be very disappointing to Mrs L, but Ill explain my reasons.
Ive seen the policy documents, and the term relied on by Aegon to decline the claim says:
We will not pay the benefit amount, for any claim based on the death of the insured 
person where the insured person committed suicide (whether or not at the time of such 
action they were sane): a. within 12 months of the benefit start date of the benefit which the 
claim relates to 
Ive also seen the verdict from the Coroners Inquest, which records Mr Ss cause of death 
as suicide. Mr S died within the first twelve months of the policy start date and so, given the 
cause and date of Mr Ss death, the above exclusion can be applied by Aegon and the claim 
can be fairly declined. I think its also important to add that exclusions of this type are 
commonplace within life assurance policies. 
But what Mrs L is asking for here is for Aegon to take her individual circumstances into 
consideration, and not take a blanket approach to applying the exclusion. The individual 
circumstances that Mrs L feels should make a difference to how the claim is assessed are; the short number of days left before the policy would have been in place for a year; and that 
this exclusion clause is in place for particular reasons, but she feels those reasons dont 
apply to her situation. 
Ive thought about this, but I dont think Aegon needed to deal with Mrs Ls claim in a 
different way. The exclusion is part of the insurance contract entered into by Aegon and 
Mrs L and Mr S. All parties agreed it at the outset. Aegon made the point that it needs to 
ensure its being fair to all customers, which means applying the same approach to all 
customers who find themselves in similar circumstances. Im satisfied this is a fair and 
reasonable way for Aegon to apply the policy exclusion. 
Ive also looked at what Mrs L said about having paid a full twelve months worth of 
premiums by the time her husband passed away. Mrs L felt that by doing so, she had 
essentially met the 12 month term. However, I think the wording of the exclusion is clear that 
when it refers to within 12 months of the benefit start date, this relates to calendar 
months and is unrelated to how premiums are paid. 
Mrs L also complained about Aegons refusal to set up a claim when she first contacted it. 
Ive listened to the phone calls Mrs L made to Aegon and I can see that Aegon was provided 
with enough information to be able to say at that point that the exclusion applied. I realise the 
Coroners Inquest hadnt been held at that stage, but Mrs L would have been able to come 
back to Aegon and submit another claim if the Coroners verdict had been different. So she 
wasnt placed at any disadvantage by Aegons refusal to initially set up a claim. 
Mrs L was also upset that she received premium payment reminders by text message and 
phone, and didnt receive a call back from an advisor when promised. Aegon said it sent out 
one automated premium reminder letter, which was posted before it agreed to look into 
Mrs Ls claim. It then stopped all subsequent reminders. Aegon concluded that all other 
contact by text message and phone, including the failure to return Mrs Ls call, must have 
come from the IFA who originally set up the policy for Mrs L. It said this because it doesnt 
have the facility to send text messages to policyholders. It also said the IFA contacted it 
several times around the end of November 2020 asking about premiums, and Mrs L said she 
had been in contact with the IFA at around the same time. So Im satisfied its likely it was 
the IFA who tried to contact Mrs L about premiums. I can see that Aegon wrote to the IFA in 
February 2021 and raised a complaint on Mrs Ls behalf. As my decision is about Aegon and 
not the IFA, I am not making any findings here about the IFAs actions. 
But Aegon did agree that it provided poor service when Mrs L contacted it in mid-December 
2020 to discuss what steps she needed to take to ensure the life and critical illness cover 
continued for her. Ive listened to the various call recordings provided by Aegon and its 
certainly the case that the adviser Mrs L spoke to was uncertain where to direct the call and 
initially provided incorrect information. But, ultimately, the adviser decided to seek advice 
and called Mrs L back. So while I have no doubt this caused stress and frustration for Mrs L, 
the matter was escalated and the correct information was provided a couple of days later. 
Aegon has apologised for these service issues and I am not asking it to take any further 
action.  
Mrs L said she was told she might get the policy premiums refunded if the claim wasnt paid, 
but Aegon decided not to do this and I think it acted fairly. I say this because although this 
particular claim was turned down, the policy was still a valid one and provided full life and 
critical illness cover, as outlined in the terms and conditions. Its because both policyholders 
had the full benefit of the cover that Aegon dont need to return premiums. I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs L, but I could only ask Aegon 
to take a different course of action here if I thought it had acted unfairly or outside of the 
terms of the policy, and Im satisfied it hasnt.  
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman