DRN-3739655
The complaint
Mr G complains that he incurred call costs when reporting a potential fraud to  Barclays Bank 
UK PLC (Barclays) via the Barclays Mobile Banking App (BMBA). He would like his costs 
refunded, and Barclays to change its system so make calls made from abroad free.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Gs point that, when faced with potential fraud, he felt it was important 
to contact Barclays as soon as possible rather than using other means such as a live 
chat which wouldnt have incurred costs. I have seen a screen shot on the BMBA 
which  shows a message that flags up when choosing the  talk to us by phone 
option. This states that making this call would take the person calling out of the app 
and call charges may apply. So, whilst I appreciate Mr Gs points about the urgency 
of contact, he would have known when he called that he might incur charges from his 
network provider.
I dont think I can reasonably ask Barclays to reimburse Mr Gs call costs. Mr G was 
aware of these costs when he chose the option to call Barclays, but he still went 
ahead and made the call. Also, the charges are applied by the network provider, not 
Barclays, so Barclays has no control over these charges.
Barclays has explained that if customers use the telephone numbers on the back of 
their bank cards, call charges tend to be cheaper when calling from abroad. So, Mr G 
might like to bear that in mind for the future.
Finally, I have noted Mr Gs comments that he would like Barclays to change its 
systems to make calls from abroad free. This is a commercial decision for Barclays to 
take and not one we can interfere with.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman