DRN-4149058
The complaint
Mr W complains that Covea Life Limited unfairly declined a claim he made on a life 
insurance policy. He also complains about delay in dealing with his claim and feels hes 
been treated poorly. 
 
What happened
To summarise, in July 2022, Mr W bought a life insurance policy online. The policy was to 
run for ten years and would pay £350,000 in the event of Mr Ws death. It also included a 
near-death benefit which would pay half the life benefit up front, if Mr W was diagnosed with 
one of the policys defined critical illnesses. 
Very unfortunately, in August 2022, Mr W was diagnosed with cancer. He made a claim on 
his policy. But Covea declined the claim. It said Mr W hadnt given honest answers to 
questions asked during the application process about his health - specifically, about PTSD 
and symptoms of a continuous cough, fever or shortness of breath. It considered this to be a 
deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to decline the claim and 
avoid his policy. 
Mr W brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator initially 
upheld the complaint as shed not received full information from Covea. However, after 
receiving full information, she changed her mind. She agreed thered been a qualifying 
misrepresentation. She also agreed it was deliberate or reckless and that Covea was entitled 
to avoid the policy. 
Mr W didnt accept the investigators view. He disagreed with the interpretation of the 
medical evidence and said there were inconsistencies. He said his symptoms related to a 
sore rib and long Covid. And he said the online policy application form didnt allow him to 
enter PTSD. He asked for an ombudsmans decision, so his complaint has been passed to 
me. 
For clarification, Ill set out the scope of my decision. Mr W has talked about difficulties he 
experienced with the online platform when applying for the policy. But the policy was sold by 
another company, so thats not something for which Covea is responsible, as our 
investigators already explained. The scope of my decision is limited to Mr Ws complaints 
about his claim being declined and the time taken to reach a claims decision  matters 
addressed in Coveas final response letter, dated 29 November 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be extremely unwelcome 
news for Mr W and Im very sorry about that. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on the points 
and evidence I consider material to my decision. So, if I dont refer to a particular point or 
piece of evidence, its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it 
changes the outcome of the complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea says Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
gave no answers to the following questions:
Has there been anything wrong with you in the last couple of years? 
Have you currently got any of these symptoms?
Continuous cough
Fever
Shortness of breath
Ill focus initially on the question relating to whether Mr W had had anything wrong with him 
in the last couple of years. Having reviewed the medical evidence, Ive noted Mr W was 
signed of work because of PTSD between February and June 2021. He was referred for and 
completed a course of therapy sessions. 
Mr W has sent us screenshots showing that PTSD wasnt a recognised category on the 
sellers online form, so he was unable to disclose. But I cant hold Covea responsible for any 
difficulties Mr W experienced when taking out the policy. It was his responsibility to take 
reasonable care to ensure the information he gave was accurate. And I note he was sent 
confirmation of his answers and couldve questioned anything that wasnt right. Covea, like 
any insurer, makes a decision to offer cover based on the health and lifestyle answers 
provided by the customer. When assessing the claim, Covea was entitled to rely on the 
information recorded during the sale. 
Covea says it wont pay out where a customer hasnt given honest answers. I can see this is 
detailed in the policy information from Covea. But I have to consider whether Covea acted in 
line with CIDRA. And for the misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, Covea would need to 
show that accurate disclosure wouldve led to it doing something different. 
However, Ive not seen evidence of any specific underwriting criteria in relation to 
PTSD/mental health conditions. Ive decided not to request this information again from 
Covea, as it doesnt make a difference to the outcome of the complaint  for reasons Ill go 
on to explain. But in the absence of underwriting evidence, I cant say what wouldve 
happened if Mr W had disclosed fully at the time of application, and therefore whether the 
non-disclosure made a difference. So Im not satisfied this was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. However, Covea says Mr W also failed to disclose symptoms of a continuous cough and 
shortness of breath. This is the far more significant issue in this complaint. 
The medical records show that on 11 June 2022, Mr W sought out of hours medical advice. 
Under presenting complaint, patients reported condition, it notes:
not alone thought rib injury about 4 weeks ago still in pain, crunches when sitting 
down cough since December pain moving into back.
And on 8 July 2022, Mr W had a telephone appointment with a nurse at his GP surgery. The 
notes record:
pain to abdomen, SOB, continuous [sic] cough, lethargy, had covid at Christmas, lost 
his sense of smell or taste has never really lost the cough, pain to lower rib cage
As a result of this appointment, Mr W was referred to gastroenterology for further tests. His 
investigations with gastroenterology identified anomalies which led to an urgent further 
referral under the lung 2 week wait procedure, ultimately resulting in his positive diagnosis of 
cancer. 
Mr W has sent us an extract from his medical records which he argues contradicts the 
medical evidence cited above. I can see the extract relates to a record of his urgent referral 
under the lung 2 week wait procedure. I note that both unexplained or persistent (>3 weeks) 
cough and breathlessness are marked no.  
Ive not seen any explanation for this discrepancy. But on balance I place more weight on 
the two entries from 11 June and 8 July 2022, which provide contemporaneous notes of 
what Mr W told the medical professionals when he was seeking help. These notes indicate 
Mr Ws symptoms had not resolved over time and were longstanding.
Mr W says he thought his discomfort was related to long Covid. But the cause of his 
discomfort is not the issue. The insurers question required him to report symptoms, 
regardless of their perceived cause. Relying on the medical records and recorded duration of 
the symptoms reported in June and July, on balance Im satisfied the symptoms likely 
persisted, and Mr W ought reasonably to have disclosed that he was currently experiencing 
a continuous cough and shortness of breath when he applied for the policy. These were 
symptoms Covea wanted to know about. 
So in respect of Coveas second question, I think Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when applying for his policy. I now need to consider whether the 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA, that is, would Covea have come to a 
different decision about cover had it been given correct information. 
Covea has provided evidence from its underwriting guidance. This shows that if Mr W had 
declared his persistent cough/shortness of breath, cover wouldve been declined. That is, 
Covea would not have offered a policy at all. So Im satisfied Mr Ws misrepresentation was 
a qualifying one.Covea has treated the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. Under CIDRA this means 
the customer knew or didnt care whether the information given was untrue or misleading; 
and knew it was relevant to the insurer or didnt care whether or not it was. Given the 
duration of symptoms and likelihood that those symptoms were current at application, I think 
it was reasonable for Covea to treat the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. 
CIDRA sets out the actions an insurer can take where a qualifying misrepresentation is 
deliberate or reckless. In declining Mr Ws claim and avoiding his policy, Im satisfied Covea 
has acted in line with CIDRA. Mr W also said he received a refund of the money hed paid to 
the online seller, something that isnt required under CIDRA. 
Finally, in respect of Mr Ws complaint about the time taken to give him a decision about his 
claim,  Ive looked at the timeline between when the claim was first registered with Covea - 
on 25 August 2022  and when the decline decision was issued to Mr W  on 10 November 
2022. The claim form was posted to Mr W on 30 August 2022 and received back on 15 
September 2022. Covea sought medical records on 21 September 2022 and these were 
received on 19 October 2022. Covea then referred the claim to its reinsurer and received a 
response on 10 November 2022. Its decline decision was issued the same day. I appreciate 
Mr W has found his dealings with Covea stressful. But overall, I think Covea provided its 
decision within a reasonable timeframe. 
So in all the circumstances, I think Covea has acted fairly. Im therefore not going to ask it to 
do anything more in respect of this complaint.
Once again, Im sorry to send what I appreciate will be difficult and disappointing news for Mr 
W. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman