DRN-3534267
The complaint
Mr B complains that Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited failed in its regulatory duties to 
carry out sufficient due diligence checks when accepting his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) application. 
Mr B says Rowanmoor should have had concerns about the business that introduced his 
application (CIB Life & Pensions Limited) and should now compensate him for the loss hes 
suffered as a result of allowing him to invest into The Resort Group via that SIPP.
Background
The parties
Rowanmoor Personal Pensions Limited (Rowanmoor)
Rowanmoor is a regulated pension provider and administrator. Its authorised to arrange 
deals in investments, arrange safeguarding and administration of assets, deal in 
investments as principal, establish, operate or wind up a pension scheme and to make 
arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
CIB (Life & Pensions) Limited (CIB)
At the time of the events in this complaint, CIB were authorised by the regulator - the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later became the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) - to advise on regulated products and services including giving investment advice 
and arranging deals in investments such as pensions.
In May 2015, CIB went into liquidation, and has since been dissolved.
Real SIPP LLP (RealSIPP)
RealSIPP were an appointed representative of CIB from April 2010 to June 2015. 
Rowanmoor was told by CIB in May 2010 that CIB had developed RealSIPP to 
be:
 a packager and administrator of SIPPs for all networked developments and is 
set-up as an appointed representative of CIB (Life & Pensions) Ltd. However, 
RealSIPP will not be issuing suitability letters a recommendations as this is done 
directly by CIB (Life & Pensions) Ltd.
Consumer Money Matters (CMM)
CMM was a claims management company that acted as an introducer of business to CIB.  
CMM dissolved on 8 July 2019.
The Resort Group (TRG)
The Resort Group was founded in 2007. TRG owns a series of luxury resorts in Cape 
Verde. TRG sold luxury hotel rooms to UK consumers, either as whole entities or as 
fractional shares ownership in a company. TRG was not regulated by the financial services 
regulator.
This case involves an investment into TRGs Dunas Beach Resort.
What happened?
Mr B told us that he had dealings with CMM in relation to a PPI matter. After that was 
resolved, CMM contacted him again and introduced him to CIB to conduct a pension review. 
Mr B has explained that his pension was producing an annual return of around 0.1% at that 
time, but says he was promised returns of 7% if he invested in TRG. 
Mr B says he was risk adverse, but that he was assured this was a safe and suitable 
investment. Mr B queried warnings on the paperwork he was asked to sign but was told they 
were just industry standard warnings and didnt really apply to this investment.
In early 2012 Mr B switched his personal pension funds of around £125,000 into the 
Rowanmoor SIPP and invested a significant proportion of those funds to make his 
investment in TRG.
TRG hasnt performed as Mr B was led to believe and hes suffered a considerable loss.  
The development was completed and is operating, but it doesnt generate the returns set out 
to Mr B incurs considerable fees. So, the investment is illiquid and essentially Mr B has lost 
his pension provision.
Mr Bs complaint
Mr B complained to Rowanmoor in March 2016 setting out a number of points. But in 
summary he said:
Rowanmoor failed to meet its regulatory duties and permitted him (as a retail client) 
to transfer to an unsuitable pension which facilitated the purchase of an unsuitable, 
high risk, illiquid investment.
He had a low risk profile with little or no investment experience to demonstrate the 
suitability of the purchase.
The investment was inappropriate for his pension as its impossible to get his 
investment back.
Rowanmoor has failed to answer a discrepancy about why there is a difference 
between the cost of the TRG property and actual price paid from his SIPP.
Had Rowanmoor had proper controls in place it would have identified and raised 
concerns about the introduction from CIB.
Rowanmoors positionRowanmoor said it had fulfilled its regulatory duties by warning Mr B to seek financial 
advice from a regulated adviser before proceeding and that the investment had risks. 
Rowanmoor also said that it had carried out due diligence on TRG.
Mr B remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to our Service.
Our investigators assessment
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and reviewed everything.  He noted 
Rowanmoor had monitored the business it received from CIB, but he concluded that by the 
time it received Mr Bs application it should have been aware that there was a high risk of 
consumer detriment.  So, he said Rowanmoor should not have accepted Mr Bs application 
and should now compensate him for the resulting losses.
Mr B responded accepting the investigators view.
Rowanmoor has not responded or provided any comments in relation to the investigators 
assessment.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
I'd like to assure both parties that I've looked at all of their submissions with care. In 
reviewing the complaint Ive considered everything specifically in relation to Mr Bs 
circumstances, but in this decision Ive concentrated on the key arguments and evidence 
that are material to my determination of the complaint.
What are the relevant considerations?
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principle 2, 3 
and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systemsPrinciple 6  Clients interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its clients
and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of 
the FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority 
[2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific 
rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but 
specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not 
treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 162 
set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely 
to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles 
and good industry practice and the relevant time as relevant considerations that were 
required to be taken into account.
Ive considered whether Adams v Options means that the Principles should not be taken in
account in deciding this case. And, I find that it doesnt. In Adams v Options, the judge didnot consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the pleadings 
submitted by Mr Adams.  So, Adams v Options says nothing about the application of the
FCAs Principles to the ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account 
when deciding this complaint.
I know that Rowanmoor says that the application of COBS in Adams v Options serves as 
guide to the application of Principle 6. But its not possible to say that conduct that does not 
amount to a breach of COBS automatically means that the Principles have been satisfied 
or that the conduct amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard 
to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to 
ensure the fair treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a 
pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 
6 includes clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the 
individual risks to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them 
to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management 
information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and 
consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then be 
addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to confirm the 
position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, 
while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a reputational risk to SIPP 
operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor 
advice and/orpotential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, 
we may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their 
clients interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for 
Business (a firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and 
clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP 
business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can 
be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to 
seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and 
analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons 
for this.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors 
have received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit 
worthy etc).
The later publicationsIn the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 
and treat clients fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP 
operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer 
outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved 
persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear 
disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings 
for un- authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify 
the responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the 
firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the 
levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments 
they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that 
they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may 
be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example 
from the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights 
and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as 
a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it 
administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic 
and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder moneyhaving clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships 
and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such 
as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers.
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of 
the introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing 
the processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks 
to the members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
ensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
undertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies 
House records, identifying connected parties and visiting 
introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has 
been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, 
or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the 
firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept 
investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach 
HMRC tax- relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not 
been approved by the firmThe July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations 
in relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point 
of purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc).
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports 
and Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance 
should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication for the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is 
treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators 
should be doing also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice at the time, and I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate, to take them into 
account.
Like the ombudsman in the Berkeley Burke case, I dont think the fact that the publications, 
(other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that are the subject of 
this complaint mean that the examples of good industry practice they provide were not 
good practice at the time of the events. The later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, 
as did the obligation to act in accordance with those Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, (and the Dear CEO letter 
published in 2014), that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business already. So, 
whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how 
the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear 
the standards themselves had not changed.
It is also important to bear in mind that the reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions given 
were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
Another relevant consideration in this complaint is the regulators alert about advisers 
giving advice to consumers on SIPPs without consideration of the underlying investment to 
be held in the SIPP. The regulator issued an alert in 2013 (Advising on pension transfers 
with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated products through a SIPP) setting 
out that this type of restricted advice did not meet regulatory requirements. It said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing 
the advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the 
new pension. In particular, we have seen financial advisers moving customers 
retirement savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or 
primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments (some which may 
be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that 
this process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as 
part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the 
suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is 
given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall 
proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in 
unregulated schemes.
The alert post-dates the events in this complaint  but, again, it didnt set new standards. It 
set out the regulators concerns about industry practices at the time. Ill explain the impact 
of this on Mr Bs complaint in my findings.
Its important to keep in mind the judge in Adams v Options did not consider the regulatory 
publications in the context of considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the 
regulators rules) or good industry practice.
Overall, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Rowanmoor complied 
with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr B), to treat 
them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to 
the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Rowanmoor 
could have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Rowanmoors contractual obligations
Rowanmoor says that, consistent with the decision in Adams v Options, the nature of its 
obligations must be looked at through the prism of the contractual documents between Mr 
B and Rowanmoor. I dont think the considerations in the Adams v Options case are 
analogous to the circumstances in this complaint, in which Im considering the Principles.
But, notwithstanding that, I have taken into account the contractual documents that 
Rowanmoor refers to and I agree they are relevant in clarifying some aspects of the relationship between Rowanmoor and Mr B. I accept that Rowanmoor made it clear to Mr 
B that it was not giving, nor able to give, advice to him and that it played an execution-only 
role in his SIPP investments.
The indemnity Mr B signed sought to confirm that he was aware the investment was high 
risk, had been given advice, and would not hold Rowanmoor responsible for any liability 
resulting from the investment.
The FSAs 2009 report said that SIPP operators should, as an example of good practice, be:
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for investment decisions and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
With this in mind, I think Rowanmoor ought to have been cautious about accepting Mr Bs 
application even though he had signed an indemnity. I think there was an imbalance of 
knowledge and Rowanmoor should have taken very little comfort from the indemnity. It had 
already shown concern that CIB was not giving full regulated advice to consumers.
But unlike the situation in the case of Adams v Options where the SIPP provider relied 
upon the indemnity that was signed by the consumer, the circumstances here are different.  
Rowanmoor has confirmed its process was to only accept applications on the basis that 
regulated advice had been provided on the underlying investment. This was specifically 
agreed as a requirement by Rowanmoors board and is recorded as such in its board 
minutes and internal email communications from 2009.
In its submissions to this Service, Rowanmoor confirmed:
Of particular note, a member of Rowanmoors risk and compliance team met with a 
representative of CIB in June 2009 to discuss CIBs business and its responsibilities 
(including the need for CIB to provide advice to clients) Rowanmoor accepted 
introductions of investments in TRG on the express understanding that CIB was 
providing advice to the clients concerned.
So, although it says that acceptance of Mr Bs SIPP was on an execution-only basis, its 
own policy was that acceptance of business was conditional upon him having received 
advice.
In this case the contractual documents assume that Mr B (and most likely all investors in 
TRG that had been introduced by CIB) had received financial advice. Rowanmoors failure 
to check that financial advice had in fact been received by Mr B is a due diligence issue 
and inconsistent with its own policy.
In the Adams v Carey case, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight said (at para. 32):
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive
But in this case Mr B has confirmed that he was not given any incentive or welcome 
bonus. He had already been sold on the idea of the TRG investment and so I think he 
signed the indemnity without a full understanding of what high risk meant, assured by what 
he was told. This is why Rowanmoor should have been wary of dealing with CIB  as it had 
already introduced business without providing full advice  contrary to what Rowanmoor 
had stipulated.My view is supported by the fact that many other consumers were not fully advised by 
CIB and accepted risks they say they did not understand. Rowanmoor did not check with 
Mr B whether he had in fact been fully advised.
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly.
The contractual documents dont absolve, nor do they attempt to absolve, Rowanmoor of its 
regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly when deciding whether to accept or reject
business.
Rowanmoor had to act in a way that was consistent with the regulatory obligations Ive set 
out in this decision. In my view, asking Mr B to sign an indemnity absolving Rowanmoor of 
all responsibility, and relying on such an indemnity, when it ought to have known Mr Bs 
dealings with CIB were putting him at significant risk was not the fair and reasonable thing 
to do.
Adams v Options and the Principles
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474.
I note that the Principles for Businesses did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment.  The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. I remain of the view that neither of these 
judgments say anything about the Principles  or how they apply to an ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint. 
To be clear, I do not say this means Adams v Options is not a relevant consideration at all. 
As noted above, I have taken account of both judgments where relevant when making this 
decision on Mr Bs case.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I must determine this complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, Im required to take into account 
relevant considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of difference between Mr Bs complaint and the judgments in Adams v Options. That was a legal claim 
which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.  
I disagree with Rowanmoors understanding of its obligations.  The Principles, COBS 
2.1.1R and the whole regulatory framework provide an ongoing set of responsibilities 
with which a business must comply.
Rowanmoor's role
I accept that Rowanmoor did not and could not give advice to Mr B. I have conducted my 
assessment on the understanding that Rowanmoor could not have assessed the suitability 
of a course of action its customers wished to take.
Instead, I am assessing whether Rowanmoor acted fairly and reasonably in relation to 
its distinct obligations to Mr B as a client or potential client, using the Principles, 
regulation and regulatory publications that I have laid out above as a guide.
It is apparent to me from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, 2013 guidance and the 
"Dear CEO" letter in 2014 that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have 
incorporated the recommended good practices into their business models already. In 
addition, the regulator continued to express disappointment with SIPP operators' failure 
to have implemented such practices.
Taking everything into account, I'm satisfied Rowanmoor should have thought carefully 
about:
Whether accepting the business from CIB was treating Mr B fairly; 
taking reasonable care; and acting with due skill, care and diligence.
Whether accepting the investment into TRG's Dunas Beach Resort was 
treating its customer fairly; taking reasonable care; and acting with due skill, 
care and diligence.
To accept everything that came its way and ask Mr B to accept warnings absolving it of the 
consequences wasn't enough. Declining to accept business doesn't amount to advice and 
Rowanmoor could have declined to accept the SIPP application without giving investment 
advice. I therefore need to consider whether Rowanmoor gave enough thought to the 
nature of Mr B's referral to it and the investment that was being requested. 
Rowanmoor's due diligence on CIB
I understand Rowanmoor considers it did undertake sufficient due diligence on CIB and 
satisfied its obligations under regulatory guidance. I accept that at the outset of its 
relationship with CIB, Rowanmoor did carry out some checks  it says that, as it was dealing 
with another regulated business, it had no obligation to do more or later due diligence.  I 
disagree with this.
Rowanmoor monitored the business it was receiving from CIB, keeping information on each 
introduction from it, such as the plan commencement date and the introduced number. 
From this information they told us that:
It accepted its first business from CIB in June 2009 and last in October 2013.In total, Rowanmoor accepted 1,387 introductions from CIB from June 2009 to 
October 2013. This is 26.90% of all business received by Rowanmoor during this 
period.
341 schemes introduced by ClB involved 1 or more occupational transfers. Of the 
1,387 clients introduced, this is 24.59%.
Its clear from documentation made available Rowanmoor had concerns as early as July 
2009 that CIB was introducing significant volumes of execution-only business and wasnt 
operating under the business model it believed to be in place.
In contemporaneous minutes from a Rowanmoor board meeting, it was agreed that one of 
the directors would meet with CIB and investigate the concerns about the business model 
and whether consumers were being fully advised.  In the subsequent board meeting it was 
recorded the director had a telephone conversation with CIB and was given a verbal 
assurance that going forward, full advice would be given. But Rowanmoor seems to have 
accepted that assurance without checking to ensure advice was in fact being given.
By the time Rowanmoor received Mr B's application, I think it ought reasonably to have 
been aware there was a high risk of consumer detriment. Therefore, I don't think 
Rowanmoor should have accepted Mr B's application.
What, acting fairly and reasonably, should CIB have done?
I think Rowanmoor should have thought carefully about whether accepting Mr B's business 
from ClB was consistent with its regulatory obligations.
I'd expect Rowanmoor to have carried out some initial due diligence into CIB and then 
continually review what it knew. I've considered whether Rowanmoor carried out enough 
due diligence into CIB and what it knew, or ought to have known, at the point it received Mr 
Bs application - and I don't think it did  as Ill explain below.
Prior to accepting ClB's business, Rowanmoor had no agreement in place with CIB, so 
there was no formal understanding between the two businesses setting out each others 
obligations.
In the FSA's initial report of the findings of its 2009 thematic review of SIPP operators 
indicated concern that some operators did not gather and analyse management 
information tracking where the business of their introducer firms came from, together with 
indicators as to its suitability for clients. The FSA indicated an example of good practice 
included:
"Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. nature of the SIPP investment) and 
size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and introduce 
clients to the firm. so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified."
Rowanmoor provided our Service with a list which includes information about the number 
of introductions made by ClB, the investments made by each client, the date the SIPP 
accounts were opened, etc. Based on the information provided by Rowanmoor, I've 
assumed that such a system was in place before Mr Bs application to it  which I think is 
good practice. This would mean that management information was readily available.
But I don't think it was enough for Rowanmoor to simply record this information. It should 
also have been considering the information and acting on anything which ought to have 
caused concern.  Based on the referrals it received from CIB, Rowanmoor would have seen that CIB was referring a large number of clients to open a SIPP in order to invest 
into one esoteric investment TRG's Dunas Beach Resort.
Prior to Mr B's introduction in February 2012, it would appear that a significant number of 
introductions were made by CIB, all investing in a high-risk investment. I think Rowanmoor 
ought to have been concerned about how CIB were obtaining this number of customers 
when this type of investment is only suitable for a small proportion of people. I think the 
volume ought to have caused them concern and led Rowanmoor to ask questions long 
before Mr B's application. For example, the type of consumers it would be referring to it for 
this purpose, how they were being obtained and how there was enough time to give 
everyone suitable advice. I can't see Rowanmoor did that at any point before accepting Mr 
B's application.
Mr B transferred his pension and invested in this high-risk investment without receiving 
any regulated advice.  TRG's Dunas Beach Resort is a commercial property and high-
risk esoteric investment, and so in my view would only be suitable for a small number of 
investors.
Rowanmoor knew that not all consumers that had been referred to it were being fully 
advised from outset, and its board had specifically discussed that issue as recorded in its 
meeting minutes.  So it ought to have identified there was a possibility that CIB was not 
providing advice on the TRG investment to Mr B and that he was at risk of consumer 
detriment.  In order to meet its regulatory obligations, Rowanmoor reasonably ought to have 
undertaken further due diligence in relation to the introductions that CIB was making.
The FSA's September 2009 report explicitly indicated that requesting copies of suitability 
reports was an example of what it regarded as good practice. And that having this 
information "would enhance the firm's understanding of its client. Making the facilitation of 
unsuitable SIPPs less likely."
I think Rowanmoor should have requested examples of the literature CIB was sharing 
with its consumers and done this long before Mr Bs application.
I've reviewed a number of complaints against Rowanmoor involving CIB, I haven't seen that 
Rowanmoor asked to see ClB's suitability report for any of the introductions made to it. If 
Rowanmoor had taken these steps, it would have established CIB was not providing full 
advice to its customers and there was a risk of consumer detriment.  So, it was not in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good industry practice for Rowanmoor to 
proceed to accept business from CIB. 
Did Rowanmoor carry out sufficient due diligence into the investment?
I haven't gone on to consider whether or not sufficient due diligence was carried out by 
Rowanmoor into the TRG investment  as I dont consider it necessary.
As set out, had Rowanmoor acted fairly and reasonably they wouldn't have accepted this 
application from CIB. So Rowanmoor wouldnt have been in a position to either accept or 
reject
the investment application in any event.
Is it fair to ask Rowanmoor to pay Mr B compensation in the circumstances?Rowanmoor considers it unfair to hold it wholly responsible for Mr Bs losses. It says a 
consumer must be held liable for their own investment decisions and CIB was the regulated 
party at fault.  To ask Rowanmoor to bear the full loss to the exclusion of those parties is 
unfair.
But, I dont think that its fair and reasonable that Rowanmoor should have no responsibility 
for Mr Bs losses simply because he signed the documents he did. 
Rowanmoor failed to carry out appropriate due diligence on CIB and reach the right 
conclusions.  I understand that another regulated party (CIB) was involved here. But our 
Service cant look at a complaint against CIB as it was dissolved and no longer exists as a 
regulated business. 
To be clear, Im not making a finding that Rowanmoor should have assessed the suitability 
of the investment or the SIPP for Mr B. I accept that Rowanmoor had no obligation to give 
advice to Mr B or otherwise ensure the suitability of a pension product or investment for him. 
Im looking at Rowanmoors separate role and responsibilities  and for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think it failed in meeting those responsibilities.
CIBs business model was based upon submitting large volumes of business through 
Rowanmoor and had it refused to accept business from Rowanmoor, I think another SIPP 
operator wouldnt have processed Mr Bs transaction if it had carried out sufficient due 
diligence.  Further, if Rowanmoor had ensured Mr B was fully advised and understood the 
risks, I think he wouldve left his pension where it was. 
But for Rowanmoors failings, Mr Bs pension switch would not have occurred in the first 
place. So, Im not asking Rowanmoor to account for loss that goes beyond the 
consequences of its failings.
Mr B has already received some compensation from the FSCS for failings by CIB.  But 
under the terms of the reassignment between Mr B and the FSCS, Mr B is contractually 
bound to repay the FSCS from any compensation he receives from Rowanmoor.  
It was necessary for Mr B to accept the terms of the reassignment set by the FSCS in 
order for him to pursue the balance of his losses.  So, I dont think that was an 
unreasonable thing for him to do and, as he will be required to repay the compensation 
received from the FSCS from any compensation he receives from Rowanmoor, I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable for me to not take the reassignment into account.  I 
have set out my thinking on this when setting out fair compensation below
Fair compensation
My aim is to return Mr B to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Rowanmoors failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting his 
SIPP application from CIB.
Mr B has raised concerns regarding the value of the TRG investment that was purchased 
with his pension funds. He feels there was a discrepancy of around £12,000 between the 
purchase price of the property and its value in Euros. Based on what Ive seen, I dont 
believe theres a discrepancy in the value of the property and the price paid, as 
Rowanmoor paid the price for the property as stated in the contract. But as I intend to put 
Mr B into the position he would be in had Rowanmoor never accepted his business, any 
discrepancy in the sum paid for the investment is not an issue that needs further 
consideration in any event.In light of the above, Rowanmoor should calculate fair compensation by comparing the 
current position to the position Mr B would be in if he had not transferred from his 
existing pension. In summary, Rowanmoor should:
Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
Take ownership of the TRG investment if possible.
Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Bs pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr B direct. In either case the payment should take 
into account necessary adjustments set out below.
Pay £500 for the trouble and upset Mr B has experienced.
Ill explain how Rowanmoor should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in 
further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the transfer (the loss 
calculation)
Rowanmoor should calculate redress for Mr Bs pension in line with The FCAs pension 
review guidance in October 2017 (updated March 2021) 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised-guidance/fg17-9.pdf using the most recent 
financial assumptions published.
2. Take ownership of the TRG investment
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment 
needs to be removed from the SIPP. To do this, Rowanmoor should calculate an amount it 
is willing to accept as a commercial value for TRG and pay that sum into the SIPP and take 
ownership of the relevant investments. This amount should be taken into account for the 
loss calculation.
If Rowanmoor is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment the value of it should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation.
Provided Mr B is compensated in full, Rowanmoor may ask Mr B to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investment in the future. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
charges on the amount Mr B may receive from the investment and any eventual sums he 
would be able to access from any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
If Rowanmoor does not take ownership of the of the TRG investment, and it continues to be
held in Mr Bs SIPP there will be ongoing fees in relation to the administration of that SIPP.  
Mr B would not be responsible for those fees if Rowanmoor had not accepted the transfer of 
his pension into the SIPP. So, I think it is fair and reasonable for Rowanmoor to waive any 
SIPP fees until such time as Mr B can dispose of the TRG investment and close the SIPP.
3. Pay compensation to Mr B for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr B has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into his SIPP. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the 
compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for 
the income tax relief Mr B could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Bs marginal rate of tax in retirement.
On the other hand, it may not be able to pay the compensation into the SIPP. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr B direct. But had it been possible to pay 
the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, 
the compensation for the loss paid to Mr B should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr B is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction 
in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would have 
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of 
the total amount.
I appreciate that Mr B has been paid some compensation by the FSCS. But, as explained 
above, I dont think I can ignore the terms of the reassignment agreement he had to sign as 
part of his claim to the FSCS. To do so would mean that Mr B would not be compensated 
for Rowanmoors failings  which, as Ive said above, has caused his entire loss 
irrespective of the separate roles and obligations of other parties.
So, I will make no allowance for what has been paid by the FSCS and award Mr B 
compensation for the full loss he has suffered. Mr B is contractually bound by the terms of 
his reassignment from the FSCS to pay back any monies it awarded to him. Mr B has 
confirmed that he understands that he is contractually bound to repay those monies to the 
FSCS and that he will do so. I am satisfied that Mr B will act in accordance with his 
contractual obligations in good faith  and so I am satisfied that no real risk of double 
recovery arises. 
I understand that CIB is dissolved, but if Rowanmoor believes other parties to be wholly or 
partly responsible for the loss, it is free to pursue those other parties. So, compensation 
payable to Mr B should be contingent on the assignment by him to Rowanmoor of any 
rights of action he may have against other parties in relation to his transfer to the SIPP and 
the investments.
  
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr B has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension 
benefits. This is money that Mr B cannot afford to lose, and its loss has caused him to 
lose all confidence in pension providers. I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate 
to compensate for that upset.
interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr B or into his 
SIPP within 28 days of the date Rowanmoor receives notification of his acceptance of this 
final decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation 
is not paid within 28 days.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Rowanmoor 
Personal Pensions Limited.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest and or costs that I think are appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is more than £150,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
The full extent of Mr Bs losses have not yet been calculated (as set out above), but it is 
possible his loss may exceed the £150,000 award limit.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Rowanmoor should pay Mr B the amount 
produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000. It should also pay any interest 
accrued if the compensation is not paid within 28 days of acceptance of a final decision by 
Mr B.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £150,000, I recommend that Rowanmoor pays Mr B the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Rowanmoor doesnt have 
to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision and go to court for 
the balance. Mr B may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman