DRN-3733921
The complaint
Mrs and Mr A complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LVI) declined 
their claim after they identified damp affecting the walls of their home.
The buildings and contents policy is in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mrs A 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs A identified damp in her home and claimed under her buildings policy. Both she and LVI 
instructed specialists to identify the cause of the damp.
Based on the reports, LVI concluded that the damp problem was likely caused by a failure in 
the damp proof course (DPC) and it declined the claim.
Both specialists that Mrs A instructed to investigate concluded it wasnt a problem with the 
DPC.
In the absence of a clear diagnosis of the cause of the damp, LVI declined Mrs As claim. 
LVI said it would consider her claim further if she provided a detailed report explaining why 
the DPC was not the cause and identifying the cause of the leak resulting in the damp.
Our investigator didnt think LVI had treated Mrs A fairly. She said the reports LVI asked Mrs 
A to obtain showed that the DPC was not the issue and they identified two possible leaks 
which caused the damp. She thought Mrs A had done enough and our investigator 
recommended that LVI reconsider the claim, pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused, and reimburse Mrs A the cost of the reports for which shed paid.
LVI didnt agree. It said Mrs As two reports only concluded what was already known  that 
the property was damp - and proof of a leak causing it or an intact DPC was needed before it 
would consider the claim.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mrs As complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
While I understand this is not the outcome Mrs A hoped for, Ive provisionally decided not to 
uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres a lot of information relating to Mrs As complaint, and LVIs handling of her claim, yet 
the issue is relatively straightforward: has Mrs A shown that she has a valid claim and, if so, 
has LVI declined it fairly in line with the policy.
When making a claim, it is the policyholders responsibility to show that an insured event 
caused the damage. The insurer should then either accept the claim or show why the claim 
isnt covered under the policy.
Event
The event Mrs A reported was dampness affecting the walls of her home. Looking at the 
policy, it provides cover for:
Water or oil leaking from any fixed tank, domestic appliance or pipe.
The policy doesnt provide cover for:
Wear and tear
Your policy does not cover claims arising from wear and tear or gradual
deterioration. 
For LVI to accept the claim, Mrs A would need to have shown that the dampness affecting 
her home was caused by water escaping. The policy doesnt cover damp caused by 
deterioration, such as of the DPC.
Reports
Ive summarised or quoted the conclusions detailed in the expert reports obtained by both 
LVI and Mrs A.  
Company S, 4 August
the water damage to the lounge has likely occurred due to an escape of water 
relating a leak on the buried central heating pipe system
We would recommend Returning to site and continuing the investigation by 
carrying out tracer gas testing of the heating system
Company S, 25 August
we are of the opinion that the cause of the water damage to the ground floor has 
likely occurred due to an escape of water from the heating system pipework. 
We would recommend Returning to sitewith a senior engineer to carry out further 
investigation and excavation of the heating pipework. 
Company S, 8 September
we are of the opinion that the water damage to the affected areas has likely occurred 
due to an external source of dirty water, potentially a breach of ground water/an 
issue with the underground drainage. 
We would recommend the following: 
3. An approved drainage contractor should be appointed to carry out a CCTV survey 
of the underground drainage system and carry out any necessary corrective work. 
4. A PCA accredited damp proof specialist should be appointed to inspect the damp 
proofing and carry out any necessary corrective work. 
Company B, 18 SeptemberUsed camera to look [at] drains from man hole at rear, one goes to kitchen other 
goes to svp via buried man hole. Nothing seen to be a problem except small water 
build up could be caused by build up of grease in line damp which is on the other 
side of the house where the drain lines are so sure this cant be a cause.
Company E, 29 September
carry out a survey for rising and penetrating damp to the lounge area. I can confirm 
that at the time of our survey (with the aid of moisture testing equipment) medium to 
high moisture readings were obtained to all the walls to the lounge area and floor 
area. It is in our opinion this is being caused by a concealed plumbing leak to the 
floor area. Therefore, we advise you instruct a competent person to rectify same.
Company A, 6 October
Company A provided a more comprehensive report which detailed the tests it carried out, 
the results and why it concluded what it did. In summary, the tests didnt reveal any damage 
to the drainage or any leaks in the water supply. While a blockage was identified in the 
below-ground pipework, it was beyond the boundary of Mrs As home and therefore the 
responsibility of the local water authority.
Company A concluded that:
confirming the exact cause and source of any damp is a difficult process and only 
eliminating the various possibilities can the source be located. In most cases the 
problem is related to defective or insufficient DPC/DPM of the area of concern. If the 
area is protected by the DPC/DPM then this should prevent any damp from entering 
the property, even if there is damage to the underground drainage system.
Once damp is experienced at the property, we would always advise the customer to 
contact an adequately qualified damp specialist to further investigate the damp 
related issues at the property.
Company T, 27 October
In this report, Company T summarised the conclusions of the previous reports and stated:
We could not find any defects with the damp proof course. The existing damp proof 
course is of slate which is level with the top of the plinth.
Immediate measures required
Locate the cause of the water damage and carry out immediate repairs
Recommendations
It appears during our inspection there is a possible leak to the incoming 
watermain. You are advised to instruct your water authority or qualified 
plumber to investigate.
Having considered these reports, I cant fairly say that Mrs A has demonstrated that an 
insured event caused the dampness affecting her home. The reports include possible 
causes with recommendations for further investigation to prove or disprove the assumptions 
made. Company As report is the only [one] that provides a detailed explanation of the tests 
completed and the conclusions given. For that reason, I find it more persuasive. As 
Company A concluded that there was no evidence of an insured event, it was reasonable for 
LVI to decline Mrs As claim unless she could provide further evidence to show otherwise.LVI challenged our investigators view because Mrs A hadnt provided a comprehensive 
DPC report. While I see that the expert she instructed, Company T, didnt identify any 
defects with the slate DPC, I havent seen any explanation of why it reached that conclusion. 
Other reports said the DPC wasn't visible from the exterior, or that it was damaged. As the 
reports also recommended a damp survey, Id have expected to see something more 
thorough to support Mrs As claim.
Therefore, in the absence of a clear expert report explaining why the DPC is not the cause of 
the dampness affecting Mrs As home, I find that she hasnt met her responsibility under the 
policy to show that the damage was caused by an insured event. For that reason, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for LVI to decline the claim.
If Mrs A wishes to obtain a more comprehensive report which supports her claim, Id expect 
LVI to consider it and reimburse the cost if it decides to accept the claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
LVI had nothing further to add.
Mrs A didnt agree because the reports from both the damp companies she instructed said 
her DPC was fine. She also said the various companies instructed by both her and LVI 
couldnt agree on the cause, so she thought LVI only rejected the claim because of the cost 
of the work involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint for the same reasons set out 
in my provisional decision.
In light of Mrs As comments, I went back to each of the reports available to me for 
consideration. I completely understand her comments about the reports failing to reach a 
conclusion about where the leak was from. None of the reports offer a clear or confirmed 
view that there was a leak causing the dampness in Mrs As home, although there is plenty 
of reference to possible leaks.
But this only goes to show that Mrs A hasnt demonstrated that an insured peril caused the 
dampness. As I said in my provisional decision, its Mrs As responsibility to show that an 
insured event occurred, and I cant reasonably say that the reports she provided do that. 
Although the report issued by Company T says it didnt find any defects with the DPC, its 
not clear how it reached that conclusion. The report confirms that the quote was for repair 
work to be done and did not infer that full, in-depth inspections were undertaken; hence it 
may not fully reflect all work that is required. Our initial inspections are non-disruptive, 
therefore, it is not possible to fully expose items covered by plaster or floor coverings, until 
they are fully exposed at the time of our remedial work.
This evidence suggests that it wouldve been difficult to determine that the DPC was 
completely unaffected because limited inspection was carried out. I also note that Company 
T relied on other companies reports of possible leaks, none of which it appears to have confirmed for itself. Therefore, I cant fairly say Company Ts report was evidence of an 
insured peril.
So, having reconsidered the reports, I remain of the view that Company A provided the most 
comprehensive and persuasive findings  that there was no evidence of a leak causing the 
damp which would be covered under the policy.
I realise Mrs A will be disappointed by my decision. However, I should make it clear that LVI 
has left her with the option of making a claim if shes able to provide clear evidence that her 
DPC is not at fault, and that the dampness was caused by an insured event. Simply, Mrs A 
can claim if shes able to demonstrate that she suffered a loss insured under her policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr and 
Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman