DRN-4515087
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) hasnt reimbursed him after he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
On 26 February 2023 Mr S was contacted by someone on social media who told him they 
had indecent images and videos of him. They said unless he paid them £750 they were 
going to release these across his social media accounts and share them with family and 
friends.
They instructed him to set up an account with an international money transfer service which 
he did. Using this service, he sent four payments to them equalling £750 - £150, £150, £200 
and £250.
After sending the money Mr S contacted Lloyds the same day to report the scam. Whilst the 
person he spoke to did ask Mr S for full details of the situation they asked him to go to 
branch to verify his identity before Lloyds was able to take any further action. Mr S wasnt 
able to go into branch and do this until 3 March 2023. Lloyds considered Mr Ss 
circumstances but ultimately said as the payments were authorised by him it wasnt liable for 
them and didnt reimburse him for his loss.
Mr S was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service. He was also unhappy 
that Lloyds didnt help him as soon as he reported the incident or stop the payments that 
were still showing as pending. Our investigator considered the complaint. They said that 
they didnt think Lloyds missed an opportunity to prevent the money being sent, so it wasnt 
liable for Mr Ss loss.
Mr S didnt accept this. He said that hed never sent money to that international transfer 
service before and he made several payments to it within minutes of each other which ought 
to have prompted intervention from Lloyds. I issued my provisional decision on 29 November 
2023. Ive included an extract here:
Should Lloyds have stopped the payments?
Im really sorry to hear what has happened to Mr S, this situation mustve been really difficult 
for him. But I want to begin by explaining that Lloyds isnt automatically liable for his loss 
because he was the victim of a scam.
Mr S authorised the transactions in question. Whilst he did so because he was being 
scammed, under the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of 
his account with Lloyds, he is initially presumed liable for the loss, as they were payment 
requests he had made of his bank. 
However, we expect Lloyds to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have 
systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators that its customers were 
at risk of fraud; and in some situations, make additional checks before processing payments 
or declined them altogether, to protect customers from possible financial harm from fraud or  
scams.
In this case, overall, I dont think the payments Mr S made to the scammers were 
significantly unusual enough that Lloyds ought to have recognised them as such and 
intervened. I understand Mr S made several payments to the same recipient within a short 
space of time. But the recipient in question was an international transfer service. So I dont 
think its significantly unusual in itself that someone might make several payments to the 
same service if they were making several transfers from it. Lloyds didnt have oversight of 
where the money was going beyond payment to the service.
And whilst multiple payments to the same recipient can sometimes indicate something of 
concern, Ive considered this alongside the total amount sent in this case. I understand £750 
is a lot of money to Mr S and it is more than the general spending on his account day to day. 
But its not unusual that from time to time someone might spend more than usual on one off 
expenses. For example when paying for a holiday or buying a car.
I recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling around this point, but the reality is that Lloyds has to 
strike a balance between monitoring its accounts for risks and not impeding its customers 
general use of their accounts. Overall, I dont think Lloyds missed an opportunity to prevent 
the payments being made in this case.
Should Lloyds have done more to try and retrieve the payments?
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds didnt reclaim the payments after he contacted it about what 
happened. In particular hes pointed out that the payments were still pending when he 
reported that they were made under duress.
Because the payments Mr S made to scammers were debit card payments, the only 
potential avenue for recovery of payment wouldve been through the chargeback scheme. 
Lloyds made no attempt to recover his funds through the chargeback scheme but Im 
satisfied such a chargeback claim wouldve failed. 
This is because the payments Mr S made from his Lloyds debit card was to a legitimate third 
party transfer service (not directly to the scammers). This means the merchants here for 
chargeback purposes would be the transfer service and not the scammers. This transfer 
service has legitimately provided Mr S with the service intended it facilitated the transfer of 
his money onto a third party. Whilst I understand the third party was a scammer, this would 
not give rise to a valid claim under the chargeback scheme. So Im satisfied a chargeback 
claim wouldnt have been successful.
I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining to raise a claim on Mr Ss 
behalf that had no reasonable prospect of success.
Pending payments cannot be reversed or reclaimed in any other way than through the 
chargeback scheme Ive outlined above. Whilst they havent been fully processed by the 
merchant (in this case the money transfer service) they had left Mr Ss account. So I dont 
agree that Lloyds couldve done more to retrieve these payments.
Should Lloyds have helped Mr S sooner?
Part of Mr Ss complaint is that when he contacted Lloyds the day the scam happened, 
whilst it took the details of the scam over the phone, it explained it would need him to go into 
branch to verify his identity before it could look into the matter further.Its explained that Mr S doesnt have a history of using telephone banking and it was unable 
to verify his identity based on his voice alone. Because it had some security concerns and 
given that Mr S had been scammed, and scams can sometimes be multi-layered and 
scammers can be skilled at obtaining lots of different information from victims, it decided to 
take additional steps to ensure it was genuinely speaking to Mr S.
I understand this wouldve been frustrating for Mr S at an already very difficult time for him. 
But, it is ultimately up to Lloyds to decide what security measures it needs to put in place to 
keep its customers accounts safe. I dont think its unreasonable in this case that it did ask 
Mr S to verify his identity further. 
Id also add that in this case, for the reasons Ive explained, there isnt a way Lloyds 
wouldve been able to recall the payments that were made as part of the scam in this case. 
So even if it had been able to verify Mr S the day the scam happened the outcome wouldve 
been the same and this delay hasnt prevented the return of his money.
I said Id consider anything further Mr S and Lloyds sent in following the provisional decision, 
provided it was received by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr S or Lloyds provided any further information in response to my provisional 
decision. As there havent been any further submissions for me to consider I havent seen 
any reason to depart from the conclusions reached and outlined above.
Whilst I am sorry to hear Mr S has been the victim of a scam, I dont think Lloyds missed an 
opportunity to prevent the payments he made to scammers. I can understand it wouldve 
been stressful it was unable to help Mr S as soon as he contacted it about the scam but its 
reasonable that it needed to satisfy its security processes first. And, in any event, I dont 
think there is anything Lloyds couldve done to recall the funds Mr S lost in this case even if it 
had been able to help Mr S sooner.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman