DRN-3483668
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt act reasonably 
during a business review process and provided poor customer service.
What happened
C explains that its accounts were restricted on two occasions in 2021 as a result of the 
review. This has damaged its business.  It attempted to provide the information but didnt 
receive help. C doesnt think that the requirements are reasonable. And the director is 
dissatisfied with the service he received on the phone about this.
NatWest said that its review was to ensure that it had correct information about its customers 
and business activities. It said that was a regulatory requirement. It acknowledged that C 
had made attempts to provide the information before the account was first restricted on 24 
May 2021. And that due to various issues the process was delayed. It waived a charge for 
unpaid items of £60 and also paid £150 in compensation. It offered to refund any call costs. 
NatWest explained that the further complaint C had made about its account being restricted 
again was treated as a continuation. NatWest said that its letters had set out the requirement 
to provide information and the deadlines. And that it didnt think C had been co-operative 
with its process. There was still then information outstanding which C hadnt provided. And 
the account was again restricted  this time from 27 July 2021 to 5 August 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that NatWest do anything further. She said that we arent 
the regulator and so dont review the way businesses operate. NatWest had given C 
sufficient warning of the need to complete the review. And that if it didnt the account would 
be restricted. When C said it couldnt access an online portal to input information,  NatWest 
had booked a phone appointment which C missed. And then NatWest tried to call it back. C 
had wanted a hard copy of the questions sent out, but NatWest had explained that this 
wasnt part of the process and C needed to answer the questions over the phone. 
NatWest had provided its call notes and had documented that C hadnt always been co-
operative and had terminated calls. During a call on 26 May 2021 although NatWest was 
trying to assist C she did think that the member of staff had talked over C and raised their 
voice. And C had said on another occasion it hadnt been called back. So, she thought that 
the compensation for service issues was appropriate. And that on the first occasion the 
account was restricted it was reasonable to refund unpaid fees. But she didnt think that this 
would be fair on the second occasion as NatWest had made clear that there were 
outstanding requirements. The account had again been restricted and there was reasonable 
notice of this and that it would apply to all facilities. 
The requirements remained outstanding and she encouraged C to continue to contact 
NatWest about this. We wouldnt be looking at further events after November 2021 and C 
would need to raise any further complaint about those with NatWest first. There is also a 
separate complaint about its debit card which is being investigated. Here she said she 
wouldnt be asking NatWest to do anything more.
C didnt agree. The director said that C was still receiving letters from NatWest about the 
requirements despite him calling.  And he hadnt received confirmation that all the 
requirements had been met and Cs account was again at risk of being restricted - at that 
time from 17 June 2022. The director said that he didnt think that the questions from 
NatWest were relevant or sensible. And he thought it ridiculous that its process was that 
these needed to be answered over the phone.  He didnt think that this service was going to 
be able to help him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and as our investigator says we arent the 
regulator. We can look at complaints that have been referred to us and if there are new or 
continuing issues these would need to be part of a new complaint. While we can try and help 
with ongoing issues thats not always possible. And I can see that the current investigator 
has encouraged C to respond directly to NatWest about its latest letter and the outstanding 
requirements.
It is reasonably a matter for NatWest to establish its own processes. And how it will meet 
regulatory requirements. Its acknowledged in its letters that this may be inconvenient for 
customers especially where nothing has changed. I also think its up to NatWest to decide on 
the information it needs. C has referred to some questions as irrelevant and I understand its 
opinion about those. But I dont consider on what Ive seen that I have a basis to find that 
these were unreasonable and not ones NatWest oughtnt legitimately to have been able to 
ask. From what I can see providing some information had led to further questions being 
asked. It also seemed to be the case that if C was in active contact it would be allowed 
further time to provide all the information. So, removing the temporary restriction wasnt a 
signal that this couldnt happen again.
The other main issue C had was with the way in which the information was to be collected. 
This was primarily through an online portal and which could have been accessed even if as 
here C didnt use online banking. I know C experienced difficulties in trying to register and 
didnt think that the staff it dealt with understood the issue. And the director didnt feel he was 
being understood when he called. He wanted the questions to be written down so he had 
time to find the answers but thats something NatWest said it wouldnt do.
Ive also listened to a lengthy call the director had with a supervisor at NatWest on 26 May 
2021. I think that the member of staff had the intention of helping and explaining what 
needed to be done. I take into account that this call came just after Cs account had been 
restricted and then that had been removed. The call involved C explaining why it didnt agree 
with the requirements. But also, the difficulties it had been having. I think the issues 
overlapped and this hampered progress on both sides. And that NatWest was unable to turn 
this into a productive call despite its efforts. Having said that it did make clear what it would 
and wouldnt do which were messages C didnt want to hear. It offered to put C thought to 
complaints, but C didnt then want to do this. And when it came to asking C specific 
questions or helping it to log on online C didnt want to cooperate with this for its own 
reasons.
I think that NatWest was always clear about its process and timescales for providing 
information and the consequences if the information wasnt provided. It sent multiple letters 
and initially tried to call C as agreed. So, I dont think it acted unreasonably in restricting the 
account. But it recognised that its service to C could have been better and that there ought 
to have been a way of avoiding this. It is fairly down to C to provide the information that NatWest needs. And thats why our 
investigator said C should contact it about further letters. Thats not something we can 
reasonably do on its behalf. But as our investigator says C can raise a further complaint 
about further events if it wants to- and as it has for example about issues with the debit card.
my assessment 
I know that the director of C is going to be disappointed when I say that I wont be asking 
NatWest to do anything further. The compensation of £150 in my view reflects the service 
issues for C and I also think it was reasonable to refund fees that time. But as I say I dont 
think NatWest acted unreasonably in its requirements and when these werent met in 
restricting the account. So, I wont be compensating C for any further impact of that.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman