DRN-4270470
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited dealt with a claim she made on 
her home insurance policy for a drainage problem.
Reference to Fairmead includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise whats happened.
Mrs F got in touch with Fairmead about a problem with her drainage system. A pipe 
connecting her home to the septic tank was damaged and leaking into her garden.
Fairmead initially declined the claim because it said Mrs F wasnt insured with it when 
the problem arose. But after Mrs F provided further information, Fairmead agreed it 
had insured her for a number of years and accepted the claim.
It took a number of months for Fairmead to settle the claim. For much of that time, 
the leak continued and Mrs F put a lot of time into chasing Fairmead for progress and 
information. She complained about what had happened.
Fairmead conceded there had been unnecessary delays. It apologised and offered 
£150 compensation. Mrs F didnt think this went far enough to put things right.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld and Fairmead should pay an 
additional £350 compensation, making £500 in total.
Fairmead agreed to do this. Mrs F didnt. In summary, she said:
oShed spent a lot of time chasing the various parties appointed by Fairmead, 
including long waits on the telephone.
oThe leak continued from June to November, making her garden unusable 
during that time. The smell was unbearable and there were flies, so she had 
to keep the windows shut during a very hot summer.
oHer business, which requires customers to walk past her garden, was 
negatively impacted for the same reasons.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no question the claim is covered by the policy and has been settled in full. So 
I wont need to consider those points.
Its accepted Fairmead handled the claim poorly and caused avoidable delays. The 
complaint is about how much compensation it should pay to fairly reflect the distress 
and inconvenience this caused Mrs F.
As theres no dispute about what happened, I wont go over each and every detail of 
the claim and what went wrong  Ill focus on the key points.
Overall, Mrs F made the claim in July 2022 and it was settled in February 2023. It 
would always have taken some time to handle the claim, including initial checks, 
considering the cause of damage and quotes submitted. Also, Mrs Fs contractor 
requested a sizeable additional payment after work had begun, so that would 
reasonably have taken some more time for Fairmead to consider.
But I would expect a claim of this nature to have been dealt with much more promptly 
than Fairmead did. In particular, the initial delay of several months caused by it 
thinking Mrs F wasnt insured at the relevant time set the claim back significantly and 
was completely avoidable. Fairmead ought to know when it began insuring Mrs F and 
be able to clarify that within a matters of hours if needed  not require the input of 
other parties, including Mrs F, over the course of several months.
The delay has clearly had a considerable impact on Mrs F. Her and her family were 
unable to use their garden throughout the summer. And the continued leak from a 
waste pipe, during very warm months, created a very unpleasant environment, so the 
impact was felt even in the house, affecting the family for a prolonged period of time.
To compound matters, communication wasnt easy. In part this seems to be the 
result of Fairmead appointing various parties. But also because simple things, like 
answering and handling calls promptly, didnt always happen.
Putting things right
Im not satisfied Fairmeads offer of £150 fairly reflected the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Mrs F. Whilst Mrs F has suggested a much higher figure, 
that seems to be based on a proportion of the claim cost.
Thats not how this Service considers compensation. Regardless of the claim cost, 
we consider the experience that particular policyholder has had and what a 
reasonable level of compensation is to reflect that. I think a total of £500 is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
If Fairmead has already paid the £150 it offered, it need only pay the remaining £350.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay a total of £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
James NevilleOmbudsman