DRN-3146467
The complaint
Mrs F complains about AWP P&C SAs handling of her claim about rainwater entering 
through her roof, under her home emergency policy.
What happened
In October 2020 Mrs F contacted AWP to make a claim for damage to her home following a 
period of heavy rain. She says an appointment was arranged for someone to attend two 
days later between 12pm and 10pm. She says no-one turned up and she received no 
contact to explain why. The following day Mrs F received a phone call to say someone would 
attend that day. But later that afternoon was told they couldnt make it. 
Mrs F says that the next day, four days after she had made her claim, she received a visit 
from an engineer. She showed him the damage to her back bedroom. The engineer wanted 
access to the loft. Mrs F says this had been converted to a bedroom and was sealed off, so 
the damage couldnt be observed. She says the engineer looked at the roof and said he 
couldnt see anything that would cause the damage, there were just a few broken tiles. 
Mrs F subsequently asked a local roofer for an opinion on the condition of her roof, as the 
damage was getting worse. She was told she needed a new roof. Mrs F says this opinion 
was shared by another roofer who also provided a quote. Mrs F says she was hoping her 
insurer would patch repair the roof for the winter, so she had time to save up. She 
complained to AWP in October 2020 and received confirmation she could refer to our 
service in November, although it hadnt completed its investigation. 
AWP sent Mrs F its final response to her complaint in February 2021. It says the first 
engineer that was supposed to attend couldnt because another job took longer than 
expected. It acknowledges Mrs F wasnt told about this. AWP provided a similar explanation 
for the next missed appointment. When the engineer did attend it says there was no loft 
access so the source of the damage couldnt be identified. 
AWP says its unacceptable that Mrs F was left without any update for several days. It 
acknowledges that it should have monitored the situation more closely. Once its engineer left 
it says it shouldve updated Mrs F on the next best course of action. It says the company that 
supplies the engineers it uses was difficult to get hold of and didnt provide updates. It says 
feedback has been given and offered its apologies and £100 compensation to Mrs F.
Mrs F rejected AWPs offer, she thought it should contribute toward the cost of a new roof 
and asked for our service to consider her complaint. One of our investigators looked into the 
matter. She upheld Mrs Fs complaint. She says Mrs Fs policy is intended to provide an 
emergency response not to provide a permanent repair such as a new roof. She didnt agree 
that AWP should pay toward this. But she did think the standard of service had been poor as 
Mrs F was kept waiting for several days with no communication. 
Our investigator thought AWP had caused Mrs F distress as she was worried about being 
left with a damaged roof over the winter months. She was left unsure how best to proceed 
given AWPs poor communication. This meant she had to sort the problem out herself by 
contacting local roofing contractors to have the work carried out. 
Our investigator says AWP shouldve followed up on its engineers note that stated a quote 
for a new roof was needed. She thought Mrs F was left abandoned by AWP at a time of year 
where delays could result in further damage. She felt £300 was a fairer compensation 
payment.
AWP didnt respond, so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Let me explain. 
I have read the policy terms and conditions to understand what was expected from AWP in 
these circumstances. The policy is intended to provide rapid, expert help in the event that 
Mrs F experiences an emergency that arises from an incident covered by the policy.
An emergency is described as, A sudden and unforeseen domestic situation which, if not 
dealt with quickly, will: damage, or cause further damage to your home or its contents. 
And:
What is covered: Roofing:
Damage to the roof of your home making it no longer watertight.   
Mrs F reported water ingress through her roof following a period of heavy rain. Based on the 
policy terms, AWP was required to arrange for an approved tradesperson to visit her home 
and deal with the emergency. The terms dont state how long it should take for a 
tradesperson to attend. In this case it took around four days for a visit to take place.
I have thought about whether the time it took AWP to send a tradesperson was reasonable. I 
dont think it was. The terms say a rapid response will be provided where there is the 
potential for further damage to be caused. A leaking roof is something that needs urgent 
attention to prevent further damage. AWP took around four days to send its engineer, which 
is a long time in these circumstances and clearly caused Mrs F to worry. 
AWP provided its notes from the engineers visit. The notes say:
Got to site and the whole roof needs replacing, there was no access to the inside. Slates 
were old and a bit loose. This roof has already had quite a few repairs already. The 
customer said she would like a quote for a new roof.
I asked AWP if it could provide more information about its engineers visit. Specifically, 
around Mrs Fs view that a patch repair couldve been carried out so her roof could be made 
watertight prior to her arranging a full replacement. 
AWP didnt respond to this point. 
There is a limit to the cover provided by Mrs Fs policy  this is set at £1,000 for a call out, 
labour, material costs and any overnight accommodation needs. The policy is intended to 
resolve an emergency, which can be a temporary repair up to the cover limit stated. In 
considering this I dont think its unreasonable that AWP wouldnt pay for the cost of a new roof. Mrs F doesnt say what this cost. But I think its reasonable to expect this to be far in 
excess of the £1,000 policy limit.
That said, AWP hasnt clearly explained why it didnt carry out a temporary repair to deal 
with the immediate emergency. I have thought about the impact on Mrs F caused by the 
delay in sending an engineer, its poor communication, the absence of a temporary repair or 
an explanation why it didnt attempt this. 
Mrs F was worried that further damage could be caused by the ongoing leak. She felt let 
down and frustrated at the lack of communication, two failed appointments, no advice after 
its engineer left, and no attempt to resolve the leaking roof. In these circumstances I think its 
reasonable that AWP compensates Mrs F. I dont think its offer fairly acknowledges the 
distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
In considering all of this I dont think AWP treated Mrs F fairly. It shouldve responded far 
quicker to her emergency, communicated more clearly and in a timely manner, explained 
why no temporary repair was attempted, and advised her how best to proceed after its 
engineer attended. Because of this I think AWP should pay £300 compensation to Mrs F.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint. AWP P&C SA should:
pay Mrs F £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman