DRN-1346453
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Capital One (Europe) plc, mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. The PPI was sold to Mr P 
when he phoned Capital One to activate a replacement card.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr D disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mr Ds case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Capital One doesnt have a call recording of the sale. But that isnt particularly surprising 
given how long ago it took place. Businesses arent required to keep this type of record over 
this period of time. However, from what we know more generally about how PPI sales were 
made by Capital One on such calls, I think its more likely than not that it made it clear to 
Mr D that the PPI was optional and that he agreed to take it. And I havent seen enough 
evidence for me to think that, on this particular occasion, the telephone representative Mr D 
spoke to didnt follow this normal sales process. The PPI charges would also have been 
separately shown on Mr Ds credit card statements. And I think Mr D would have been likely 
to question these charges if he hadnt agreed to take the PPI.
So, on the information available to me, I think that Mr D would have known at the time that 
he had a choice about buying the policy and actively decided to do so. But the sale 
happened a long time ago, so I can understand why he may not recall this now.
I dont think Capital One recommended the policy to Mr D, so it didnt need to make sure that 
it was suitable for him. But it did still need to give him enough information for him to decide if 
he wanted to take it out. I think its likely that the information Capital One gave Mr D could 
have been better than it was. But from what I know about his circumstances at the time, I 
dont think better information would have changed his mind about taking it. I say this 
because:
 
Mr D appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations. 
Mr D says he would have received generous sick pay from his employer at the time 
of the sale. But this policy would have paid in addition to this and for up to twelve 
months if he wasnt able to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
This is longer than he would have been paid full sick pay. And he chose to take the 
cover, so it looks like he valued the sort of protection the PPI gave him. So I still think 
Mr D would have thought the extra security the policy gave him was worth paying for.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Mr D. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs. 
 
So I dont think Mr D has lost out by anything Capital One may have done wrong when it 
sold him this PPI policy.
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because:
 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mr D, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. 
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman