DRN-2963673
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) have held her responsible for 
several transactions that she didnt recognise on her credit card.
What happened
Mrs T took an extended trip overseas to visit family in February 2020. When she returned 
home in August 2020, she saw that her credit card statements had numerous transactions 
on it that she didnt recognise. Mrs T called Capital One to dispute them and Capital One 
removed the transactions from her account whilst they investigated the matter.
Capital One later put all the disputed payments back on to her account, holding Mrs T 
responsible for them. Capital One said all the payments were made with the genuine card 
and the correct Personal Identification Number (PIN) was used every time to complete each 
transaction. Mrs T thought that her card could have been cloned but Capital One didnt 
accept this.
Mrs T said that she hadnt used her card for some years and couldnt remember the PIN 
herself. She said she kept the card in her purse, but it was no longer in the pocket she 
usually kept it in and she no longer had it in her possession. Mrs T said she hadnt written 
the PIN down or told anyone else about it.
Mrs T said that when she returned to the UK, a credit card with the same number was 
waiting for her and she questioned how the transactions could have been made abroad if the 
card was unused and still attached to a letter from Capital One?
Unhappy with how Capital One had dealt with her claim for a refund, Mrs T brought her 
complaint to our service for an independent review. It was looked at by one of our 
investigators who couldnt find evidence that it was anyone else whod likely carried out the 
transactions. He also thought the payments wouldnt have triggered any anti-fraud response 
from Capital One and he didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Mrs T disagreed with the outcome. She sent in photographs of an unused credit card 
bearing the same number as the one used to make the disputed transactions. Mrs T 
repeated her assertion that the card couldnt have been used abroad if it was still in the UK. 
Mrs T asked for her complaint to be looked at again and its been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law concerning authorisation of a payment is contained in the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017 and, because a credit card was used, the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The basic position is that business can hold Mrs T liable for the disputed payments if the
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Mrs T has highlighted the new card that was waiting for her when she returned to the UK, 
and that this is evidence that this card couldnt have been used abroad. So, Id like to deal 
with this part of the complaint up first. 
I asked Capital One how they operated their normal renewal process and they confirmed 
that once a card is issued, it keeps the unique number and PIN unless it needs to be 
changed, for example because it was lost or stolen. The records show that Mrs T had a card 
that was first issued in 2017 and it expired at the end of May 2020. There are no records of 
the original PIN being changed.
Capital One sent out a replacement card bearing the same number to Mrs T before the 
original card expired in May 2020. This is the card that Mrs T referred to in her submissions 
to our service. So, the card that was responsible for all the disputed transactions was the 
original card issued to Mrs T in 2017. The replacement card was sent to ensure Mrs T had a 
valid credit card when her current one expired. 
I realise that Mrs T feels strongly that the fact this card was at home while she was abroad 
means that it couldnt have been used abroad. But, Mrs T told us she normally kept the card 
in her purse. So, I think its likely that the card was in her purse when she travelled from the 
UK. Im satisfied that here, the card that was used for the transactions was the existing card 
Mrs T had since 2017.
Once Mrs T notified Capital One about the disputed transactions, they cancelled this card 
and issued one with a different number, but this was after all the disputed transactions had 
taken place.
Mrs T thought that a cloned card might be responsible for the transactions. Whilst its 
possible to clone the magnetic strip on a card, there havent been any instances of the chip 
being cloned on a card. The data supplied by Capital One showed the genuine chip was 
read by the card machine at the time of the transactions. So, I dont think that a cloned card 
was responsible for these transactions.
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
Capital One have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN were used to 
make the transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions 
were authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Capital One and Mrs T agreed to use the card for 
transactions. For example, when using the card and PIN together, Capital One agree to 
accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another 
approved user and make the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used the 
genuine card and the correct PIN, so Im satisfied that consent was given and the disputed 
transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for 
Capital One to hold Mrs T responsible, for example if the card was used without her 
permission.
So, the sequence of disputed transactions only started once Mrs T arrived on her visit and 
they stopped at the end of May, which is when the expiry date on her current card was 
reached. All the payments were made using the genuine card and PIN, although Mrs T told 
us that she didnt know the PIN herself as she hadnt used the card for several years.Ive thought about the likelihood that it was an unknown thief that took the card and used it. 
In order to do this, they would need both the card and the PIN. Its possible that a thief took 
the card because Mrs T no longer has it, but they would also need the PIN to be able to 
make all the transactions. Although its possible for someone to guess a four-digit PIN, the 
chances of doing that on the first attempt are extremely slim. And the evidence here shows 
that the PIN was used correctly, on the first attempt for each transaction, so I dont think its 
likely that this is the answer to what happened.
As Ive discounted the likelihood of an unknown thief responsible for the transactions, the 
remaining options are that Mrs T was responsible herself, or she allowed someone else to 
use her card, or someone who had access to the card took it without her authority. I cant 
think of a plausible version of events where its likely that someone with access to the card, 
took it without the permission of Mrs T because they wouldnt know the PIN.
Mrs T said she couldnt remember her PIN because she hadnt used her card for several 
years. Capital Ones records back up Mrs Ts limited usage on the account, although it had 
been holding a balance over £1,000 for some time. But the fact remains the genuine card 
was used with the correct PIN. Its highly unlikely that this could have happened without the 
cardholder, Mrs T providing it, as no- one else would have any knowledge of what the PIN 
was. So, I dont think its likely someone known or unknown to Mrs T took the card without 
her knowledge, because they couldnt have used the card without the correct PIN.
Ive also thought about how the card was used, which doesnt suggest that it was used by an 
opportunistic thief. A thief wouldnt know how long the card could be used for, until its 
reported lost or stolen and then cancelled. The way a stolen card is often used is to get as 
much from it in as short a time as possible. The usage on this card isnt like that. It was used 
to make low value transactions over the course of a month or so until it expired.
Taking all the above factors into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for Capital One to 
hold Mrs T responsible for the transactions shes disputing. I say that because they didnt 
start until Mrs T arrived in the country, they were made with her genuine card and used the 
correct PIN. Also, the transactions didnt follow any usual pattern of unauthorised usage. 
Because of this, I think Mrs T was more than likely responsible for the transactions.
Mrs T made the point that Capital One didnt notify her of these transactions and she could 
have prevented further loss. Banks and credit card companies do monitor transactions for 
fraudulent or suspicious activity, but the payments taken from the card here are for relatively 
small amounts and I wouldnt expect them to arouse suspicion with Capital One.  But, 
because Ive found that it was more than likely it was Mrs T who was responsible, it follows 
that any notice by Capital One about the transactions wouldnt have given Mrs T any further 
information than she already had about them.
I realise Mrs T will disagree with me, but its what all the evidence Ive considered leads me 
to conclude and so I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
David PerryOmbudsman