DRN-1083369
 
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) has 
invoiced her for fees when she'd cancelled the agreement they had.
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs P asked FTR to make a "free PPI" check on her behalf. She signed a 
Letter of Authority (LoA), and this included the terms of the agreement.
In January 2019, FTR wrote to Mrs P telling her that the results showed she'd paid PPI. 
And to apply for a refund she had to follow the link to a PPI questionnaire. It told her that she 
wouldn't be able to claim a PPI refund unless she completed the PPI questionnaire. On 18 
January 2019 she completed and submitted the questionnaire. She said that later that day 
she received a message from FTR's cancellation team telling her it was unable to confirm if 
she had PPI, and asked her to provide any documentary evidence. It said it would not be 
able to progress the claim without additional information.
Mrs P said that because she didn't have any information she could provide, she assumed 
her claims were cancelled. 
On 21 January 2019, FTR had made the PPI refund claim on her behalf to her lender. It had 
sent the PPI questionnaire, the LoA, and a complaint letter to the lender.
Mrs P said that the lender contacted her directly in February 2019 to ask her for 
information about her PPI claim. She said that at this point she sent a cancellation request to 
FTR "to cover myself". She heard nothing more until FTR contacted her for payment of its 
fee.
FTR said that Mrs P gave her authority for it to proceed with her claims when she completed 
and returned the PPI questionnaires. So it sent the claims to the lender. And it said her 
attempt to cancel was too late because it had already made the successful claim.
Mrs P was unhappy with FTR's handling of her complaint. She says it didn't address all of 
her points. She says it told her it would not contact her for payment whilst it was investigating 
he complaint. But she says she received many phone calls, texts and letters asking for 
payment. FTR said that she had been told that the collection process would be put on hold 
whilst her complaint was investigated. It said a commercial decision was made to change 
this approach and Mrs P was told this in correspondence sent on 13th June 2019.
Our investigator felt that FTR should have explained to Mrs P that it wasn't able to proceed 
with one of her claims, but it was progressing the others. She also felt that it didn't handle 
her complaint well. She upheld these parts of Mrs P's complaint and awarded £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused.Mrs P disagreed. She said because of the way FTR handled her case she wasnt able to 
consider whether or not she wanted them to represent her after the free PPI check, and she 
wasn't able to exercise her rights to cancel. She feels the full fee should be waived.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Whilst I'm upholding this complaint, I'm 
not instructing FTR to waive the fee. I'll explain why.
Mrs P says she believed the contract was cancelled. And I can see why she says she 
was confused. She filled in the questionnaires and was told shortly after by FTR that 
it couldn't progress her claim. A few days later it sent the complaint to her lender but didn't 
tell her it had done so.
The next contact she had was from her lender in February 2019, and this prompted her to 
tell FTR she wanted to cancel.
FTR says that Mrs P gave it authority to proceed when she completed the PPI questionnaire. 
And this is what Mrs P agreed to when she signed up to the free PPI check service in 
November 2018. The terms and conditions document attached to the LoA states: 
"Your instruction can be given at any point including once PPI has been located. You 
can provide your instruction in one of two ways; either by returning the Lender 
Questionnaire to FTR or by completing the Lender Questionnaire over the telephone 
with FTR. An instruction includes returning a Lender Questionnaire in any manner 
including online, email, post or a verbal affirmation to proceed with the claim."
So I'm satisfied that by returning the PPI questionnaire, Mrs P did authorise FTR to act on 
her behalf.
Mrs P says she was not given the option to cancel. I've looked at the terms. These confirm 
that the agreement takes effect from the date the PPI questionnaire is returned. In this case, 
Mrs P returned the questionnaire on 18 January 2019. The agreement gave Mrs P 14 days 
from the date she signed the agreement to cancel. That period ended on 12 December 
2018. But even if I were to consider the cancellation period started on the date the 
agreement took effect, the 14 day cooling off period would have ended on 1 February 2019.
But Mrs P didn't attempt to cancel until 13 February 2019, after she was contacted by the 
lender. So her cancellation was made outside of the 14 day cooling off period. More 
significantly, she tried to cancel after FTR had submitted her complaint to the lender. And the 
complaint was successful. The terms explain clearly that a claim is successful if FTR sends 
the letter of complaint to the lender and an offer is made. And that is what happened here.
I agree with our investigator that there's nothing to indicate that Mrs P attempted to make a 
claim herself after she believed that the agreement was cancelled. FTR submitted the claim 
on Mrs P's behalf, and it was its actions that led to the PPI refund. So I think it's reasonable 
for FTR to charge Mrs P the success fee as set out in their agreement.
I can see that Mrs P was unhappy with FTR's handling of her complaint. She initially 
complained to FTR on 7 March 2019 but FTR didn't address all the points she'd raised. She 
complained again, and she was told collection action would be held until it had completed 
the investigation. It issued its final response to Mrs P on 20 July 2019.I can see that FTR chased Mrs P for payment before this date. And I can understand why 
she was upset. But it's reasonable for a business to change its approach, and whilst we'd 
expect a business to stop the collection process whist it investigates a complaint, it doesn't 
have to.
But I agree with our investigator that the overall delay would have been upsetting for Mrs P 
so I uphold this part of the complaint.  
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that FTR should've made it clear to Mrs P what claims it was 
submitting, and those it was not. It's that lack of communication that has confused Mrs P, 
and I can see why she's upset that she's being asked to pay the fee. I also agree that 
FTR didn't communicate with Mrs P in a timely manner after she complained, and this also 
caused Mrs P upset. She had to chase them for a full response, and in the meantime it 
started to chase her for payments.
I agree that FTR should pay Mrs P £100 to compensate for the trouble and upset it caused 
her. I don't agree that it needs to waive the fee.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Quickly Finance Limited 
trading as Fast Track Reclaim to pay Mrs P £100 for the upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2019.
 
 
 
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman