DRN-1622291
 
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that Amigo Loans Ltd (Amigo) did not carry out proper checks before 
granting her an unaffordable loan. Mrs J would like her loan to be written off.
What happened
Mrs J took out a loan with Amigo in October 2018, borrowing £10,000, to be repaid over 60 
months with monthly repayments of around £400. This type of loan was guaranteed by 
another person, Mr A, so if Mrs J wasnt able to make her repayments, Amigo could ask Mr 
A to pay them instead.
In September 2019, Mrs J asked Amigo for a further advance, but Amigo turned down the 
application. Mrs J said her circumstances hadnt changed that much between October 2018 
and September 2019, so Amigo shouldnt have granted her the earlier loan. Mrs J also 
explained to Amigo that she had various health conditions and was finding it hard to make 
her loan repayments. Amigo agreed to accept a lower monthly repayment of £250.
Mrs J complained that the loan had been made without Amigo doing the right checks to 
make sure she could repay it. Amigo accepted it could have asked more before the loan was 
paid out and upheld Mrs Js complaint. It offered to remove the interest that had accrued on 
the loan, remove any negative traces that appeared on Mrs Js credit file and also remove 
Mr As liability to pay anything toward the loan. In October 2019, Amigo reduced Mrs Js loan 
balance by £4,277.46.
Mrs J didnt think Amigos offer went far enough and didnt reflect the impact the loan had 
made on her health. She thought it was fairer for Amigo to write off the loan.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought Amigo had acted fairly. He 
thought Amigo had offered to put Mrs J in the position she would have been in had she not 
taken out the loan. But as she had benefitted from the funds paid, he thought it wasnt fair to 
ask Amigo to waive the outstanding balance. He also thought Amigo had acted appropriately 
when Mrs J explained her health problems and financial difficulties.
Mrs J disagreed and asked for the complaint to be considered again by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amigo has accepted that it didnt do the right kind of checks to make sure Mrs Js loan 
repayments were affordable, so I dont need to consider that further. In these circumstances, 
Id expect Amigo to do the following:
Remove any interest and charges applied to her account from when it was opened;
Use any payments made as a reduction in the principle amount;
Make a suitable repayment plan so that Mrs J can pay off the remaining amount;
Remove any adverse information on Mrs Js credit file in relation to this loan.
Amigo has already reduced Mrs Js loan to take off the interest charged, put all the 
payments to the loan and agreed to amend Mrs Js credit file, so it has done what I would 
have expected it to. It has also agreed to remove Mr A from any liability under the loan. But 
after it did this, there was an outstanding balance left to pay by Mrs J. Amigo agreed to 
accept £250 a month toward this, but Mrs J thinks this should be written off so there is 
nothing left to pay.
I dont think it would be fair to expect Amigo to write off the loan. Although Amigo has 
accepted it shouldnt have lent Mrs J the money, I also have to consider that Mrs J 
approached it for a loan, expecting to have to pay it back. If I were to direct Amigo to write off 
the loan, that would put Mrs J in the position where she had the benefit of the loan without 
having to pay anything back, which wouldnt be fair. I think Amigos offer has put Mrs J, so 
far as is possible, in the position she would have been in if Amigo hadnt lent her the money 
and I think the offer is fair.
I understand why Mrs J says it is difficult for her to repay the loan due to her medical 
conditions and financial circumstances, but Amigo has said it is prepared to discuss with her 
a further reduced repayment plan. Ive also seen an email where Amigo asked sensible 
questions about how best to communicate with Mrs J after shed made it aware of her health 
conditions in September 2019. From what Ive seen, I think Amigo has acted fairly and 
sympathetically toward Mrs J.
Mrs J has also asked me to consider two decisions issued by other ombudsmen, where they 
told Amigo not to ask someone to repay anything on a loan. But those decisions were about 
complaints brought by the guarantors of the loans, not the borrowers. The people bringing 
those complaints shouldnt have been accepted as guarantors and didnt have anything to 
repay. For the reasons set out above, I think Mrs Js circumstances are different and I dont 
think Amigo needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint against Amigo Loans Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman