DRN-3769806
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) declined to refund him 
for his rent of holiday accommodation.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr A booked holiday accommodation for 32 people in October of that year. 
He paid by making two payments, in March and August, with his Virgin Money credit card.
In September, Mr A asked to reschedule that booking because of covid regulations, as 
gatherings of more than six people were prohibited, unless they were all from the same 
household (the rule of six). Mr A said this would prevent the booking from going ahead, as 
he had booked for 32 guests. The accommodation provider (the merchant) did not agree to 
reschedule the booking, and so Mr A cancelled it, but the merchant refused to refund him, as 
its terms and conditions said the booking fee was non-refundable. Mr A then asked Virgin 
Money to refund him. He claimed that his contract had been frustrated, and so he was 
entitled to a full refund under the Law Reform (Frustrated Contracts) Act 1943; alternatively, 
the merchant was in breach of contract, and had misrepresented to him that the 
accommodation would be available to him when it wasnt.
Virgin Money raised a chargeback claim, but this was unsuccessful because the merchant 
defended it, saying that the covid rules had not actually prevented the booking from going 
ahead. Next, Virgin Money considered its liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974, but it decided it did not have to pay Mr A anything. It said that section 75 does not 
apply to frustration of contract, only to breach of contract and misrepresentation. And it said 
that the merchant had not breached its contract, as it had still been able and willing to 
honour the booking.
Mr A brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator did not uphold it. She said 
that Virgin Money had taken the chargeback as far as it could. She noted that the merchants 
terms and conditions said that in the event of cancellation for any reason, no refund would 
be given, and it was the customers responsibility to obtain travel insurance. She agreed with 
Virgin Money that section 75 does not apply to claims for frustration of contract, and that 
there was no evidence of a breach of contract by the merchant, because the merchant had 
not cancelled the booking or said that the accommodation would no longer be available. She 
said it had still been possible for the booking to go ahead without contravening covid 
regulations, as several properties had been booked and so each could have taken one 
household. Consequently, she agreed that Virgin Money had not been obliged to offer a 
refund under section 75.
Mr A did not accept that opinion. He insisted that there had been a breach of contract, 
because the rule of six would have prevented a group of 32 from going on holiday together. 
He said that the merchants website contains a clause which says:
If legislation is introduced due to COVID that requires us to be closed we will 
provide a full credit, either as a refund or preferably a booking transfer to another 
date.
Mr A said this undertaking applied to his booking, as it would have been illegal for he or the 
merchant to proceed with it. He argued that the merchant had admitted that it was 
impossible for the original booking to go ahead, because in an email it had advised him to 
reduce the number of guests. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Section 75 makes Virgin Money jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the merchant, but not for frustration of a contract. Virgin Money was therefore not 
responsible for paying Mr A any refund to which he might have been entitled if his contract 
was frustrated.
However, it is still necessary for me to decide whether the contract was frustrated, because if 
it was, then there can have been no breach of contract by the merchant.
A contract can be frustrated by a change in the law, if the change makes the contract 
impossible (not merely inconvenient or challenging) to perform. I will come back later to 
whether the covid regulations did that; for present purposes I will assume that they did. 
Chitty on Contracts (34th edition, paragraph 26-003) says:
where express provision has been made in the contract itself for the event which 
has actually occurred, then the contract is not frustrated.
The merchants terms and conditions include these clauses:
A reservation, once confirmed in writing, renders the person booking liable for the 
full payment of the quoted price.
Payments are non-refundable so it is recommended that appropriate travel 
insurance is taken out to cover recovery of all non-refundable costs
It is the responsibility of the individual(s) or business(es) letting the property to 
ensure they and all guests and visitors during their short term tenancy have suitable 
and adequate insurances in place, including  travel
Tenant and Guest insurance cover is expected to include, but is not limited to: [a list 
then follows, which includes this entry:]
- Restrictions to travel imposed by government or any authority
[The merchant] will not be held liable for any guest or tenant cancellations due to 
adverse weather conditions, illness, any change in personal circumstance or health, 
travel complications or any other reason whatsoever, including those listed above, 
expected to be covered by your own insurance. [Emphasis added.]
Since the terms and conditions make express provision for a booking being cancelled due to 
any reason whatsoever, then I think the doctrine of frustration does not apply here. I am 
reinforced in that opinion by paragraph 26-123 of Chitty on Contracts, which says:
a clause which provides that one contracting party is under an obligation to 
maintain insurance against the consequences of the frustrating event would appear 
to be effective to exclude the operation of the Act so that the party upon whom the 
obligation to insure is imposed cannot bring a claim under the Act.It follows that if the merchant had not allowed the booking to go ahead (instead of Mr A 
cancelling it), then that would have been a breach of contract, rather than frustration, and so 
section 75 would apply. (But I dont think it would be proof of a misrepresentation having 
been made, because misrepresentation means a statement which was untrue when it was 
made, not one which becomes untrue later on, which is what Mr A alleges.)
However, it appears that the merchant was still prepared to let the booking go ahead. The 
email Mr A referred to in his response to the investigators opinion only says that the 
merchant was offering discounts to customers who reduced a large booking to 25 guests or 
fewer. It did not say that 32 guests could not stay:
As it stands, with current rules, its workable, although were very much encouraging 
lower occupancy across the whole site by offering discounts for having 25 guests or 
less. If this suits please do let me know.  Unless were in full lockdown and 
legislation requires us to close again, well remain open
The same email went on to say:
In the event of a full lockdown well look to transfer a booking or reimburse but for 
anything else that may prevent the tenant or their guests from travelling to or staying 
at the property, the risk remains theirs protected by their own insurance (if they have 
it)
So for anything less than a full lockdown, Mr As sole remedy under the contract was his 
travel insurance. (He has told us that his travel insurance had lapsed in June 2020.)
Mr A has not suggested that there was a full lockdown at the time of the booking, which was 
in late October 2020. Rather, his argument is that the rule of six operated to prevent 32 
people from sharing accommodation. The merchant never accepted that, either during its 
correspondence with Mr A in the weeks leading up to the booking, or when it defended the 
chargeback afterwards. This defence was accepted by the credit card scheme operator 
when the chargeback claim was raised.
The covid rules changed frequently. They are summarised on the website of the House of 
Commons Library at https://commonslibrary.parliament.uk/research-briefings/cbp-9068/. The 
rule of six was imposed nationally on 14 September, and then continued until the second 
national lockdown on 4 November; this period encompasses Mr As booking.1
It is not clear from the evidence before me how many buildings had been booked, except 
that it was at least three; nor do I know how many households the guests all came from 
(Mr A told the merchant it was over 1 and up to 5 different families); nor is it clear precisely 
how many people would have attended if the booking had gone ahead, because in an email 
dated 2 August 2020 Mr A told the merchant that one family had dropped out but didnt say 
how many people that was. However, if I assume that 28 people would still have attended, 
from four different households, occupying three buildings, then it would certainly not have 
been possible for everyone to comply with the rule of six (unless more people dropped out, 
which Mr A was adamant would make the entire holiday pointless). So I accept that the 
booking could not have gone ahead precisely as envisaged at the time the booking was 
made, or as re-envisaged on 2 August.
Nevertheless, I think it would still have been possible for the booking to have gone ahead in 
some form, with some changes, in such a way that the covid restrictions in force at the time 
could have been complied with. For that reason, I am not persuaded that the merchants 
offer to pay a full refund in the event that covid legislation required the venue to be closed 
1 See also https://researchbriefings.files.parliament.uk/documents/CBP-9068/CBP-9068.pdfwas applicable; it was still open. And it was Mr As choice, not the merchants, to cancel the 
whole booking in light of the implications of the rule of six.
I am reinforced in that view by the merchants email dated 30 September 2022, in which it 
said:
We are open and weve been operating very well since 4th July, with stricter 
guidance before now. We have ten separate properties across the site and so in 
your case, it would simply be a case of re-booking with ten separate bookings and 
making sure you follow our protocol in communal spaces  to ensure you remain 
within the law.
That would have solved the legal problem, although I appreciate that it would have involved 
the guests having to adapt somewhat, in following the rules. But it would not have required 
anyone else to drop out.
Mr A cancelled the booking the next day. I can understand his reasons for doing so, because 
if the holiday had gone ahead it would have required some undesirable restrictions, but I do 
not think that this situation amounts to a breach of contract by the merchant. It was just the 
unavoidable result of the covid laws, which inconvenienced everybody to some degree at the 
time.
For these reasons, I am satisfied that Virgin Money was not obliged to refund Mr A under 
section 75, nor was it obliged to appeal against the chargeback decision declining his claim. 
I think that pursuing the chargeback claim further would not have met with success.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman