DRN-3637024
Complaint summary and background
Mr S complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) has unfairly declined a claim he 
made under a buildings warranty policy. 
NHBC claims an exclusion applies as Mr S had previously reported the matter of 
efflorescence from the bricks and missing mortar, to the builder of the property within the first 
two years of the policy. It has therefore said it is not required to consider the matter further 
under the warranty policy. 
Ms S disagrees and asserts the matters are separate as he was unaware of the severity of 
the issue originally. 
Our Investigator looked at the complaint and let Mr S know she felt NHBC had fairly applied 
the policy exclusion. Mr S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The policy contains an exclusion which means that anything previously reported to 
the builder within the first two years of the policy (the builders liability period) would 
not be covered by the warranty policy. 
The efflorescence reported by Mr S to the builder is a symptom/sign of a deeper 
issue. However, I appreciate at the time Mr S reported this to the builder he thought 
that it was simply a cosmetic issue.
While further investigations, some years later, have now exposed the fact the mortar 
used in the building of the property may be insufficient, I have to consider whether 
this issue is separate to that which was previously reported.
Having considered everything, I think the matters are sufficiently linked which means 
it would not be considered a new issue. Simply because Mr S wasnt aware of the full 
extent of the problems with the mortar, which was a cause of the efflorescence, when 
he reported the matter to the builder, doesnt automatically mean this is an issue that 
should now be covered under the warranty policy.
All insurers will decide what cover they wish to provide under a policy and will 
exclude circumstances where they specifically do not wish to provide cover. This isnt 
unusual. 
Having considered the exclusion NHBC have highlighted, and the circumstances of 
the claim Mr S wishes to make. I dont think NHBC have applied the exclusion 
unfairly. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against National House-Building 
Council.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman