DRN-3016328
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Inter Partner Assistance SA dealt with her claim against her
travel insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Miss B had an annual travel insurance policy with IPA. She planned 
a winter sports trip, travelling by a long coach journey and then by plane. Miss Bs departure 
and return dates were 4 April 2019 and 15 April 2019 respectively.
Miss B arrived at her destination on 6 April 2019. On 7 April 2019 - the first day of 
snowboarding - Miss B was injured. She sought medical assistance and contacted IPA.  
Miss Bs injuries were to her knee, which was put in a splint, and she had stitches to a 
laceration in her glutes. She also had bruising.
On 10 April 2019, Miss B told IPA that her injuries were such that she couldnt return, as 
planned, by coach. IPA said that it needed a new medical report. On 13 April 2019,     
Miss B told IPA that the treating hospital said that there was no need for a new medical 
report and IPA confirmed cover. 
On 15 April 2019, IPA told Miss B that it would arrange a direct flight home for her. By 
then, Miss B says that she had completed part of her pre-arranged return journey by 
coach and was about to board her planned flight back to the UK. IPA says that Miss B 
didnt take the coach on her return trip but, instead, purchased a new direct flight. 
My provisional decision
On 27 July 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
intended to uphold Miss Bs complaint and to direct IPA to pay Miss B compensation of 
£600 and deal with Miss Bs claim under the curtailment provisions of the policy. I said:
Its common ground that IPA delayed in telling Miss B that it agreed to repatriate 
her. It appears from IPAs notes that it received a medical report on 8 April 2019. On 
10 April 2019, Miss B told IPA that she couldnt travel home as planned and IPA 
asked for a further medical report. A further medical report doesnt appear to have 
been necessary, as when Miss B reported to IPA that the hospital said that there 
was no need for one, IPA confirmed cover without it. IPAs request for a further 
medical report caused delay.
IPAs notes show that it reviewed the information it had and agreed to repatriate    
Miss B on 14 April 2019. But it didnt communicate that to Miss B until 15 April 2019, 
by which time she had completed the long return coach journey of her original return 
trip. Its clear and quite understandable, that Miss B considered that she had no 
choice but to return as planned, as it appeared that no repatriation assistance was 
available from IPA. That caused Miss B distress and inconvenience as she couldnt 
sit down and was in pain. Miss B says that she spent the 24-hour coach journey 
upset, lying face down and on strong pain medication.
Considering everything, I think that compensation of £600 in relation to Miss Bs 
distress and inconvenience arising from IPAs delay in repatriation assistance is fair 
and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the matter. Miss Bs policy covers curtailment of a trip. It 
says that IPA will pay up to £1,500 for Miss Bs proportion of any irrecoverable, 
unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges if the trip is 
curtailed before completion. The policy defines curtailed as a) abandoning or 
cutting short the trip by direct early return home or b) being an in-patient in hospital 
or being confined to accommodation on the orders of a medical practitioner, in either 
case, for more than 48 hours.
Whilst what happened here doesnt fit the policy definition of curtailed, I think that 
Miss Bs trip was effectively curtailed from the date she was injured. And I think its 
fair and reasonable for IPA to deal with Miss Bs claim under the curtailment 
provisions of the policy. Ill explain why.
The dominant purpose of Miss Bs trip was snowboarding. Miss B says  and I 
accept  that for the remainder of the trip, she lay on her front, alone, in the 
apartment whilst the rest of her party enjoyed the winter sports activities. She says 
that her injuries meant that she couldnt sit down, and she couldnt move around 
or look after herself without assistance, so she couldnt participate in any 
activities. I think the effect on Miss B was the same as if shed cut short the trip or 
been confined to her accommodation on the orders of a medical practitioner. So, I 
think that Miss Bs trip was effectively curtailed from the date she was injured and 
that its fair and reasonable for IPA to deal with a claim under the curtailment 
provisions.
Miss B has also referred to damaged valuables and equipment. She has not yet 
made a claim for those items. Its open to her to do so.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss B didnt respond to my provisional decision. IPA said:
It asked for a further medical report in order to assess Miss Bs fitness to travel. It 
decided to confirm cover without a further medical report as Miss B was 
dissatisfied about the delay, but it was still necessary information. 
It agrees that there was a delay in telling Miss B about repatriation, but it 
disagrees that part of Miss Bs return journey was by coach. It says that Miss B 
told it that shed purchased a new flight, so the planned return coach journey 
wasnt used. Its notes show that it spoke to Miss B before she boarded her flight. Compensation of £600 is excessive as there was no return coach journey and 
Miss B booked a flight home.
It hasnt told Miss B that she cant make a claim for curtailment. 
Its already agreed to deal with a claim for curtailment and its for Miss B to make 
the claim to the correct department. 
Miss B may make a claim for damaged valuables and equipment and it hasnt 
told her otherwise. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept what IPA says about the necessity of a second medical report about Miss Bs fitness 
to travel and note that when such a report wasnt forthcoming, it decided to waive that 
requirement. 
IPA says that compensation of £600 is excessive as Miss B didnt travel by coach, as initially 
planned, for part of her return journey. It points to its notes which show that it spoke with 
Miss B just before she boarded a flight to the UK. Ive looked at this matter again. 
Miss Bs consistent position throughout the complaint has been that, as IPA hadnt arranged 
her repatriation, she returned as planned, partly by coach and partly by air. Miss B says that 
she returned by coach from the country of her trip to Poland and then flew from Poland to 
the UK. The coach trip takes around 24 hours. Miss B says that she spoke with IPA on the 
phone as she was about to board her flight from Poland to the UK, after shed completed the 
long coach trip. 
On balance, I accept what Miss B says about completing part of her return journey by coach. 
Her reference to this has been clear and consistent throughout the complaint. Miss B was 
clearly travelling on a budget and as IPA hadnt arranged her repatriation, she used the 
return travel shed already paid for. Theres nothing in IPAs notes which contradicts that. 
IPA spoke with Miss B after shed completed part of her return journey by coach but before 
she boarded her flight. Miss B hasnt made a claim in relation to additional flight costs and I 
think thats because she didnt book an additional flight for her return.
I think that IPAs delays in arranging Miss Bs repatriation meant that she suffered distress, 
inconvenience and pain and suffering that could have been avoided. Miss B couldnt sit 
down and was in pain and says that she spent the leg of her return journey that she 
completed by coach upset, lying face down and on strong pain medication. I accept what 
Miss B says about that. In the particular circumstances here, I think that compensation of 
£600 in relation to Miss Bs distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering is fair and 
reasonable. 
I note that IPA agrees to deal with any claim for curtailment or damaged valuables or 
equipment that Miss B may make. 
Considering everything, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I see 
no reasons to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. Putting things right
In order to put things right, IPA should:
pay Miss B compensation of £600 in relation to her distress, inconvenience, pain and 
suffering and,
deal with any claim Miss B makes in relation to curtailment or damaged valuables and 
equipment, in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, taking into account my 
findings about effective curtailment.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint. I now direct Inter Partner Assistance SA 
to take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman