DRN-3516759
The Complaint
Mr M says that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) (the Business) lent to 
him irresponsibly when he was granted a personal loan on 11 September 2016.
Background to the Complaint
It looks like Mr M applied for a £1,300 loan from the Business online. It had a 24-month term 
and it was repayable at £100.61 a month. The Annual Percentage Rate (APR) was 99.9% 
and the total amount repayable after interest and costs was £2,414.64.
The reason for the loan was recorded as Expenses.
Mr M made a complaint to the Business about its decision to lend to him and he argued that 
the loan was granted irresponsibly.
The Business issued its final response on 4 May 2020 rejecting the complaint. So, Mr M 
referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 27 August that year. At the time of his 
referral, he said that the loan should never have been granted because he was already 
overcommitted financially.
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who, having argued that the Business hadnt 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, concluded that it would have discovered 
that the loan was unaffordable for Mr M had it carried out such checks.
The Business disagreed. And as it wasnt possible to resolve the complaint informally, it was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. Both sides were given time to add to what had 
already been said and/or provided before being passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 13 May 2022. I thought that the Business had 
proceeded to lend to Mr M on the basis of a proportionate amount of information. However, 
as the Business still had to evaluate that information in order to reasonably assess whether 
he could afford to meet the loan repayments in a sustainable way over the term of the loan, I 
went on to consider whether the information in question suggested that was likely to be the 
case. And, in short, I thought that it did.
The Business accepted my PD. But Mr M disagreed. In summary, he thinks his consistent 
and significant overdraft balance should have been a red flag to the Business before going 
on to say that his bank statements make it clear that he was living in chaos, making bad 
choices and not living in a sustainable way. 
As the deadline I set in my PD has now passed, Im in a position to consider this complaint 
for a Final Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (the 
FCA) Handbook to take into account the: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
As I said in my PD, when the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or 
contradictory, Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, 
means Ive based it on what I think is most likely to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
And having taken into account everything I need to consider1, I still dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable to uphold this complaint  which I continue to realise might be disappointing 
for Mr M.
Before I explain why, I want to repeat what I said in my PD about my role as an ombudsman. 
It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only 
going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and 
my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, 
I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
Under the relevant legal and regulatory framework, the Business was obliged to lend 
responsibly. This meant that it had to reasonably assess whether Mr M could afford to meet 
the loan repayments in a sustainable way over the term of the loan in question.
The relevant regulator didnt specify what level of detail such an assessment might require  
nor did it set out how such an assessment needed to be carried out in practice. Instead, it 
said that the necessary level of detail when carrying out a requisite assessment would 
depend on the risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial situation  though it 
wouldnt necessarily be limited to that.
But the regulator did define the notion of sustainably repaying debt as being able to meet the 
repayments of a credit agreement without undue difficulty. And that includes being able to 
make repayments on time and without taking on additional borrowing to do so while also 
meeting other reasonable commitments.
So, in keeping with the information on the Financial Ombudsman Services website, there 
remain a number of overarching questions I need to consider when deciding a fair and 
reasonable outcome given the circumstances of this complaint:
1. Did the Business carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr M was likely to have been able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
1 Including what the Financial Ombudsman Service has set out on its website on its general approach to complaints about 
irresponsible and unaffordable lending.i. If the Business carried out such checks, did it lend to Mr M responsibly using the 
information it had?
Or
ii. If the Business didnt carry out such checks, would the requisite checks have 
demonstrated that Mr M was unlikely to have been able to repay the borrowing in a 
sustainable way?
2. If relevant, did Mr M lose out as a result of the Business decision to lend to him?
Did the Business carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
As I said in my PD, there are many factors that could be relevant when determining how 
detailed proportionate checks should have been. And while much will depend on the 
circumstances in question, the more obvious factors include  though arent necessarily 
limited to:
the type of credit Mr M was applying for along with the size, length and cost of the 
borrowing; and
Mr Ms financial circumstances  which included his financial history and outlook along 
with his situation as it was, including signs of vulnerability and/or financial difficulty.
And generally speaking, I think reasonable and proportionate checks ought to have been 
more thorough:
the lower an applicants income because it could be more difficult to make the 
repayments as a result; 
the higher the amount repayable because it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment, especially from a lower level of income; and
the longer the loan term, because the total cost of the credit was likely to have been 
greater given the longer time over which repayments have to be made.
As a result, the circumstances in which it was reasonable to conclude that a less detailed 
affordability assessment was proportionate strike me as being more likely to be limited to 
applicants whose financial situation was stable and whose borrowing was relatively 
insignificant and short-lived  especially in the early stages of a lending relationship.
As Ive said before, Mr M declared that he was working full-time and earning £4,300 a month 
during his loan application. He also declared expenditure of £2,000  which was broken 
down into a number of categories that it isnt necessary to repeat here. 
The Business didnt rely solely on what it was told by Mr M in relation to his income and 
expenditure. It says that it verified his income and used reasonable averages to verify his 
declared expenditure. It also carried out a credit search  which drew its attention to some 
credit card debt and two outstanding overdraft balances attached to two joint current 
accounts but otherwise didnt throw up anything too alarming about his financial 
circumstances. And having listened to a call between Mr M and the Business, it also asked 
him to provide it with bank statements for an account held in his and his wifes name (the 
Joint Account) covering a two-month period from 21 June 2016 to 20 August that year (the 
Relevant Period). So, given the size of the monthly repayments Mr M had to make to the Business loan 
relative to his income, and in light of what the Business knew and asked for, I still think it 
proceeded to lend to him with a proportionate amount of information to hand  especially 
when Mr M doesnt appear to have had a recent history of borrowing from the Business.
However, as Ive said before, once the Business had the information it thought it needed, it 
then had to evaluate it because it still had to reasonably assess whether Mr M could afford to 
meet the loan repayments in a sustainable way over the term of the loan.
Did the Business lend to Mr M responsibly using the information it had?
The bank statements for the Relevant Period reveal that Mr M was paid £3,388.79 on 
28 June and £4,144.45 on 28 July  which means he was paid an average of £3,766.62 
each month during that time. 
There were a number of regular payments that left the Joint Account each month during the 
Relevant Period, largely by Direct Debit  which it isnt necessary to repeat here as I set 
them out in my PD. Those payments totalled £2,740.34 each month during the Relevant 
Period. But as some of them were the responsibility of Mr Ms wife, I thought that those that 
were relevant to my PD totalled £2,398.99 instead  which Mr M doesnt dispute. So, I still 
think thats the case. 
It also looked to me like the Joint Account was used to spend an average of £837.17 in 
supermarkets and £68.08 on petrol each month during the Relevant Period  which isnt in 
dispute either.
However, according to Mr M and his wife, the households essential spending thats relevant 
to this complaint was split between them. And as he earnt more than his wife, those 
outgoings were split relative to their net monthly incomes rather than evenly.
So, I calculated that Mr Ms average net monthly income during the Relevant Period 
represented roughly 73% of the households average total income each month during that 
time  which includes Mrs Ms net monthly income and what looks like Child Tax Benefit 
payments. And on that basis, it seemed to me that his share of the households essential 
spending was just over £2,400.
With that still being the case, it looks like the gap between Mr Ms share of the relevant 
household outgoings and his average net monthly income during the Relevant Period was 
roughly £1,350 (the I&E Gap).
However, as I said in my PD, it wasnt clear whether and to what extent the Business 
factored into its affordability assessment the repayment of Mr Ms credit card debt and his 
share of two overdraft balances attached to the Joint Account and another joint current 
account (i.e. his running credit)  all of which appeared in the results of the Business credit 
search.
And in my view, factoring in the repayment of Mr Ms credit card debt and his share of two 
overdraft balances in a way that was consistent with the relevant regulatory framework had 
to assume their repayment over a reasonable period of time2. So, I thought and still think 
that the Business should probably have factored in monthly repayments that were higher 
than the £100 Mr M declared. 
2 Akin to the typical time required to repay a fixed-sum unsecured personal loan of the same size as the outstanding balances 
Mr M was responsible for.Nonetheless, with this assumption in mind, I found and still find it unlikely that the repayment 
of Mr Ms outstanding credit card balance and share of the relevant overdraft balances would 
have required a monthly commitment from him that was anything like £1,350. And for that 
reason, while Mr M argues that his outstanding overdraft balance should have been a red 
flag to the Business, as I said in my PD, even if it had factored in the repayment of Mr Ms 
running credit over a reasonable period of time, Im still not persuaded that would have made 
the repayments to the loan in question unsustainable for him given their relatively 
insignificant size.
I continue to recognise that Mr M had turned to Payday Loans on a couple of occasions 
during the Relevant Period. And Ive considered what he had to say about the extent to 
which he was living unsustainably. However, as I said in my provisional findings, the bank 
statements for the Joint Account also suggest that there was a reasonable amount of 
discretionary spending during the Relevant Period  which, by its very definition, isnt 
essential and can be more easily set aside. As a result, Im still not persuaded that theres 
enough here to say that it would have been clear to the Business that he was in no position 
to make room for the loan repayments when his average net monthly income left him with 
enough disposable income to service the loan and leave him with a reasonable cushion 
once all of his essential spending was taken into account (including the repayment, over a 
reasonable period of time, of his credit card debt and his share of the relevant overdraft 
balances). 
And for that reason, therefore, and in light of everything Ive said above, I dont think it was 
wrong of the Business to lend to Mr M on this occasion.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022. 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman