DRN-2263009
The complaint
Mr R complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr R had his car insured on a policy under which UKI was responsible for 
dealing with claims. Where I refer to UKI, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I 
hold UKI responsible for their actions.
On 19 October 2019, Mr Rs vehicle and a third partys were involved in an accident at a 
roundabout.
Later UKI treated Mr R as having been at fault. Mr R complained to UKI about that. 
By a final response letter dated 29 June 2020, UKI turned down the complaint. Unhappy with 
that, Mr R brought his complaint to us in July 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
UKI had done anything wrong.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Valid car tax is required from the moment a vehicle is driven on public roads. The 
third party should not have been on the road without tax. 
The third party was liable from the outset as he was driving illegally. Mr R should not 
be liable.
The approach and exit to the roundabout are dual carriageway.
Mr R was checking traffic to ensure it was safe to enter the roundabout which would 
have included checking his mirrors. He didnt see the third party.
The third party not aware of Mr Rs presence or manoeuvres.
The third party collided with him on the roundabout.
The third party drove into the rear of Mr Rs vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term allowing the insurer to decide how to deal with 
a claim involving a third party. Mr Rs policy with UKI contained the following term:
We are entitled to:
 take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your 
name 
 take proceedings in your name for your, or our own benefit.
The effect of such a term is that  on a question of liability to a third party  UKIs view would 
prevail over Mr Rs.
I will consider whether UKI applied that term fairly. Unlike a court, we dont hear from both 
drivers and decide the extent to which either of them is responsible for causing damage.
The road tax for the third partys vehicle hadnt been renewed on 1 October 2019  nearly 
three weeks before the accident. I dont condone driving without road tax. 
But I havent seen enough evidence to show that the lack of road tax invalidated the third 
partys insurance or meant that he was an uninsured driver. And I dont accept that the lack 
of road tax meant that UKI shouldve held the third party at fault for the accident.
Im satisfied that UKI took into account Mr Rs report of the accident. 
UKI took into account the nature and location of the damage to each vehicle. It noted 
damage to Mr Rs rear bumper on the drivers side. It also noted damage to the third partys 
wing on the passenger side.
UKI also reviewed dashcam images from the third party vehicle. UKI concluded that Mr R 
had encroached into the third partys lane.
UKI sought legal advice. That involved  as I would expect - an attempt to predict how a 
judge might decide the third partys claim if it came to court. 
UKI decided that there was a high risk that a judge would find in favour of the third party. So 
 rather than incur that risk and associated costs  UKI settled with the third party on a 
without prejudice basis.
I appreciate that the record of a fault claim against him has had adverse financial 
consequences for Mr R.
Nevertheless, keeping in mind UKIs review of the evidence of what had happened, I dont 
find that UKI treated Mr R unfairly by settling the third partys claim. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct UKI to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman