DRN-2863258
The complaint
Mr E complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited did not tell him about the balloon repayment 
which was due when his car finance agreement came to an end.   
What happened
In March 2017 Mr E entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo for a 
used car. Under the agreement Mr E was to make monthly payments of £173.97. The cash 
price of the car was £12,665, Mr E paid a deposit of £3,000 and was given £440 in part 
exchange for his old car.
Mr E wanted to keep the car at the end of the hire purchase agreement. He was however 
surprised to find out that this would require him to make a further payment of £4,440.50. He 
says he was not told about this and believed that his only commitment was to make the 
monthly payments of just over £170. 
MotoNovo explained that the hire purchase agreement said that Mr E needed to make 48 
payments of £173.97 and one final payment of £4,444.50. The pre-contractual documents 
said the same. Mr E had signed the hire purchase agreement electronically. There was no 
evidence of any wrongdoing.
Mr E referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He was broadly in agreement with MotoNovo and so did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Mr E did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo has provided a copy of the pre-contract credit information and the hire purchase 
agreement that it says would have been issued to Mr E. They are contained in a single 12-
page document. Both record that Mr E was to make 48 monthly payments of £173.97 
followed by one monthly payment of £4,444.50. He could choose whether to make the final 
payment, but would have to return the car if he didnt. Mr E signed the hire purchase 
agreement electronically. 
An electronic signature is a way of signing a document in electronic form without the need to 
print it and use a wet signature. It generally requires the signatory to provide security 
information so they can be identified. Contractually, it is of the same effect as a wet 
signature on a printed document. I am satisfied that Mr E signed the hire purchase 
agreement. 
A person who signs a contractual document is usually bound by its terms, whether or not 
they actually read them. There are exceptions, of course  for example, where a signature 
was obtained by fraud or undue influence  but I am not persuaded there is any evidence of 
those or similar matters here.  
Mr E says that the final payment was not drawn to his attention by the dealership. I think its 
quite likely that it was not emphasised; many hire purchase customers are more concerned 
to know what their regular monthly payments will be, especially if they plan to replace the car 
at the end of the hire purchase agreement. Be that as it may, the payment schedule was 
clearly set out in the agreement that Mr E signed and the accompanying pre-contract 
document. It was not concealed from him or in any way obscure or ambiguous.
Mr E also says that he did not receive a copy of the agreement. Again, I think its likely that 
he was not sent a hard copy of the agreement. However, that would not have been 
necessary, since he would have received an electronic copy for his signature. 
Overall, I can see no reason why Mr E would not be bound by the terms of the hire purchase 
agreement. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require MotoNovo Finance Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman