DRN-3336427
The complaint
Mr F complains that the Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold his 
income protection policy, and also says it forged his signature on a document.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy paid benefit if Mr F couldnt work because of accident or illness. However, Mr F 
says Halifaxs adviser didnt tell him this, and instead led him to believe the policy would pay 
benefit in the event of unemployment. 
Halifax sold the policy to Mr F in one of its branches in August 2011, so I dont know what he 
was told about the policy at that meeting. Ive therefore looked at the time of sale information 
to see if this explained how the policy worked.
Halifax has provided a Customer Information form (also known as a fact-find). I see this 
shows that Mr F was employed, but didnt receive any sick pay from his employer. The notes 
on that document say that the adviser spoke with Mr F on 1 September 2011, and he was 
happy to proceed with the policy. Unfortunately, Halifax no longer has this call recording, 
though that isnt surprising given how long ago the call took place. 
The adviser then wrote to Mr F on 1 September 2011 and enclosed a Financial Report and a 
Protection Analysis Report. The advisers letter also referred to an enclosed key features 
document. The Financial Report and Protection Analysis Report confirmed the adviser had 
recommended Mr F take out income protection cover which paid a monthly benefit of 
£979.16 for a monthly premium of £36.56. However, this was more than Mr F wanted to pay, 
and so the adviser reduced the monthly benefit to £450, for a monthly cost of £18.42. Mr F 
agreed to take this out. These documents referred to income on sickness, and didnt mention 
anything relating to redundancy or unemployment. 
The key features document explained the policy would pay a monthly benefit if the insured 
couldnt work because of accident or sickness.
Ive also seen a quote summary (or illustration). This set out the benefit and cost of the 
policy, and confirmed the policy would pay £450 a month after 13 weeks if Mr F was too ill to 
work.
Halifax has also provided a copy of an 11-page document. This document includes medical 
and personal information about Mr F. It also says that he received other documents, 
including the key features and illustration. This document was signed underneath Mr Fs 
name. However, Mr F says he didnt sign it and that it isnt his signature. 
I dont know if Mr F signed the form. I havent asked Halifax for other examples of Mr Fs 
signature as Im unable to decide on the validity of the signature as Im not a handwriting 
expert. 
However, even if I completely disregard this document, Mr F accepts hed taken out the 
policy. And as Ive said, the Financial Report, Protection Analysis Report and key features 
document sent to Mr F by the adviser on 1 September 2011 made it clear how the policy 
worked.  
I also note the insurer wrote to Mr F on 6 September 2011 and enclosed a copy of the policy 
terms. These make it clear that the policy pays benefit in the event the insured cant work 
because of sickness. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the information from the time of sale made Mr F aware how the 
policy worked. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr F was told the policy would pay 
benefit in the event of unemployment. I therefore dont find that the policy was mis-sold.
Ive also considered whether the policy was suitable for Mr F, given his circumstances at the 
time.
Mr F says the adviser took into account any benefit he mightve received from Jobseekers 
Allowance (JSA) when working out his benefit. Halifax says it wouldnt be unreasonable to 
believe that JSA was taken into consideration at the time of sale, to reduce the cover of the 
policy that was being offered. 
Im not sure why Halifax has said this. To be eligible to claim JSA, a claimant must not have 
an illness or disability that stops them from working. Therefore, JSA wouldnt be relevant 
when considering how much benefit to arrange under an income protection policy. 
Ive carefully looked at all the information from the time of sale, but theres no suggestion 
that JSA was taken into account when working out Mr Fs benefit under the policy. However, 
any government benefits payable in the event of ill health may well have been discussed.  
The policy explains that the maximum benefit available is 50% of earnings. The adviser 
initially recommended that Mr F take out cover with a monthly benefit of £979.16. This was 
the maximum benefit that Mr F could have under the policy (based on his annual earnings at 
the time of £23,500), so Im satisfied this was an appropriate recommendation. However, the 
cost of this cover was more than Mr F wanted to pay, and so the adviser reduced this to an 
affordable amount for him  this gave him a monthly benefit of £450. Whilst this wouldnt 
have covered all of his outgoings if he couldnt work because of illness, it would have been 
better for Mr F to have had some benefit than none at all. 
The adviser selected a 13-week deferred period under the policy. I see this was the shortest 
deferred period available. Given that Mr F wouldnt have received any sick pay from his 
employer, I think this was appropriate. 
Im therefore satisfied that the recommendation was suitable for Mr F. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman