DRN-3580828
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Lloyds Bank PLC has failed to prevent an annual Direct Debit 
payment from being taken from their account after they cancelled it.
What happened
Mrs E noticed that a Direct Debit payment of £20 was being taken out of her and Mr Es 
Lloyds account annually by a society she was a member of many years before. She 
cancelled the Direct Debit, but it continued to be taken each year. Mrs E says shes had to 
contact Lloyds every year for the past five years to cancel the Direct Debit and get the 
payment refunded.
Mrs E contacted both Lloyds and the society to try to resolve the matter. She says the 
secretary of the society told her that he was unable to cancel the Direct Debit. 
Lloyds told her that it had cancelled the Direct Debit each time, but the society kept sending 
a new request through each year. It told her that it could apply an indicator for Direct Debits 
to be checked manually but this could only be applied for six months so it wouldnt resolve 
the issue. Lloyds also suggested closing her account and setting up a like for like account, 
but Mrs E was concerned about the inconvenience it would cause. 
Mrs E asked our service to consider her complaint against Lloyds as she felt it should do 
more to resolve the issue. The investigator who looked into Mrs Es concerns, thought her 
complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Lloyds had provided sufficient evidence to show 
that it had cancelled the Direct Debit instruction. He also didnt think Lloyds had done 
enough to validate the Direct Debit instruction.
Our investigator recommended that Lloyds provide appropriate Direct Debit cancellation 
instructions to the service user, confirm the Direct Debit instruction had been permanently 
cancelled and report any prohibited actions by the service user in line with the scheme rules. 
He also recommended Lloyds pay Mrs E £150 for the distress and inconvenience shed 
experienced.
In response to our investigators view, Lloyds said it needed time to find the correct person to 
contact to enable it to get the Direct Debit cancelled. Lloyds then provided contact details for 
the secretary of the society and suggested Mrs E contact him. However, Mrs E said this was 
the same person shed been contacting for the past three years. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulations require Lloyds to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly. Lloyds is responsible for all aspects of the running of Mr and Mrs Es 
account, including payments, such as Direct Debit. 
Lloyds says that it has cancelled the Direct Debit every year since Mrs E first notified it that it 
was being taken from her account. It says the society keeps reinstating it and calling for 
payment each year. 
However, the only evidence Lloyds has provided to support what its said is a screenshot of 
the notes relating to Mr and Mrs Es account. This doesnt show that Lloyds cancelled the 
Direct Debit with the service user (the society) taking the payment. Our investigator 
commented that Lloyds hadnt provided any evidence of the ADDACS (Automated Direct 
Debit Amendment Cancellation Service) report in his view of the complaint. Lloyds still hasnt 
provided a copy of this report. So, I havent seen sufficient information to conclude that 
Lloyds cancelled the Direct Debit.
The Direct Debit Scheme rules prohibit a service user from collecting money from an 
account after a Direct Debit has been cancelled. The society would need to have obtained 
Mr or Mrs Es authority to reinstate a cancelled Direct Debit instruction. 
The rules require the service user (the society) to provide a copy of the new authority dated 
after the date of cancellation within seven working days, should they be requested to do so 
by the payment service provider. However, I havent seen any evidence to show that Lloyds 
has requested this.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded Lloyds has done enough to resolve the matter. 
Its unclear from what Lloyds has provided, whether the issue relates to Lloyds failing to 
cancel the instruction or the society breaching the rules by reinstating a cancelled Direct 
Debit. But either way, I think Lloyds should have done more to prevent this from happening 
again. 
Lloyds has mentioned that the societys account is also held with it. If this is the case, then 
Lloyds would also be responsible for taking reasonable steps to ensure the society is 
adhering to the requirements of the scheme.
This situation has been very frustrating for Mrs E who has contacted both Lloyds and the 
society several times with no way forward. Shes acknowledged that the transaction is a 
relatively small amount. But shes understandably concerned about having to contact Lloyds 
every year to claim the payment back.
Its disappointing that, following our investigators view, Lloyds suggestion was for Mrs E to 
contact the secretary of the society directly. This is the same person that Mrs E has referred 
to has having previously contacted about the issue in the complaint form we shared with 
Lloyds.
Under the circumstances, I think it would be fair for Lloyds to compensate Mrs E for the 
distress and inconvenience shes experienced. 
Putting things right
Lloyds should ensure that the Direct Debit is cancelled with the service user (the society) 
and confirm this to Mr and Mrs E. 
Lloyds should also pay Mr and Mrs E £150 for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint and direct Lloyds Bank 
PLC to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman