Complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc has refused to make a chargeback for goods not 
being as described. 
Background
Mr A arranged for his lawn mower to be repaired as it wasnt working. The engineer told Mr 
A that a part had been replaced with a second-hand part, and nothing else done. However, 
Mr A was charged for several new parts, plus petrol. As hed been charged for parts he 
hadnt received, he asked Santander to make a chargeback.
Santander wanted Mr A to provide some information to support his claim. It asked him to 
arrange for an expert to review the condition of the lawn mower, and comment on the repairs 
that had been done. 
Mr A didnt agree to this, as the cost of obtaining the experts opinion was more than the 
amount hed paid for the repairs. He therefore brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it was reasonable 
for Santander to request further evidence before agreeing to Mr As request for a 
chargeback. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As our investigator has explained, for Santander to process the chargeback request, thered 
need to be evidence supporting Mr As assertion that the repair shop didnt provide him with 
the goods hed paid for. When Mr A made the chargeback request, Santander only had 
Mr As opinion on the matter, as he hadnt provided any supporting evidence other than 
receipts. 
I think it was reasonable for Santander to ask Mr A to provide further evidence before it 
would consider his chargeback request. 
Mr A chose not provide Santander with this further evidence, because of the cost of 
obtaining an experts report. That was of course Mr As decision, but without any evidence to 
DRN-1400163support his claim, I cant conclude it was unreasonable for Santander not to process the 
chargeback request. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman