DRN-1272000
 
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) returned two cheques unpaid. He 
believes this was unfair and caused damage to his reputation. Mr K thinks Barclays should 
have sent a text message so that he could have taken action much quicker. 
What happened
Mr K wrote a cheque and dated it 3 July 2019 which was paid by Barclays. He wrote another 
cheque and dated it 15 July 2019 which was returned by Barclays due to the signature not 
matching. A third cheque was written by Mr K and dated it 24 July 2019 which was also 
returned unpaid.
Barclays sent Mr K a letter dated 19 July 2019 which informed him that the cheque hadn't 
been paid, that it had informed the beneficiary and that he hadn't been charged for this. 
Barclays said Mr K should make alternative arrangements for the cheque to be paid.
Barclays said Mr Ks signature on the cheques didn't match the mandate it holds. Mr K said 
Barclays actions caused him inconvenience and led his short term loan provider to review 
his credit profile. 
Mr K was unhappy the cheque didn't clear. He was also unhappy Barclays didn't send him a 
text to let him know there was a problem as they do when there are insufficient funds. He 
said hes written cheques to the same company for 11 years and his signature hasn't 
changed recently. He pointed to the fact the signature mandate Barclays relied on was 
signed 30 years ago. Mr K also said another cheque written a few days before, and to the 
same company, did clear. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint and didn't uphold it. He said Barclays was 
protecting Mr Ks security, and he thought the signature on the two cheques that weren't 
processed didn't sufficiently match the mandate. The investigator also said Barclays had 
followed its process and wasn't required to text, phone or email in these circumstances. 
Mr K didn't accept the investigators opinion. He disputed the signatures didn't match and 
said it was illogical to have accepted one of the cheques when the signature was the same 
on each. Mr K also pointed to the fact hes written cheques to the same company for many 
years, and Barclays should have taken this into account and processed his cheques. Mr K 
said Barclays uses texts for other communication, so should also text to enquire about the 
signature on a cheque. Finally, Mr K said that in not processing the cheques Barclays had 
failed in its duty to protect his reputation. 
Mr K has asked for an ombudsmans final decision, so his complaint has been passed to me 
to consider. 
 What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Barclays acted reasonably in not paying Mr Ks cheques and in 
communicating the reason in writing rather than by text.
Ive seen copies of the two cheques that werent cleared, Mr Ks signed mandate and a copy 
of the cheque Mr K has referred to that Barclays did clear.
Im mindful of the fact Barclays has measures in place to protect customers funds. Banks ae 
expected to have robust systems in place to protect customers from fraud. If a bank follows 
its standard processes were unlikely to say theyve treated a customer unfairly. Barclays 
have explained they have an automatic system that identifies cheques that may not match 
mandates. These cheques are then manually checked. Barclays followed its process and 
decided the signatures on the two cheques Mr K has complained about did not sufficiently 
match the mandate he signed. 
After reviewing all the evidence, Im satisfied the signatures on the cheques that weren't paid 
didn't closely match the mandate signature. Given this, I think Barclays acted reasonably in 
not paying the cheques. The signature on the cheque, that did clear, is similar to the 
mandate, so I can understand why this one was paid. 
I dont think that just because Mr K had written cheques to the same company for many 
years that it follows Barclays should have paid the cheque. It seems to me the main issue in 
this complaint relates to the fact Mr K signed his mandate a long time ago. I understand
Mr K has now updated his signature, which should help in the future.
Barclays sends letters to their customers when they dont pay a cheque and I can see it sent 
Mr K a letter dated 19 July 2019 to inform him of this. I appreciate they send texts for other 
reasons, and that a text would be quicker. But Barclays has followed its process and treated 
Mr K in the same way it would have treated any other customer in the same position. In 
these circumstances I cant say it has acted unfairly. It may help if I explain that this service 
cant change how a bank conducts its business. We can only look at individual complaints 
and decide if a customer has been treated fairly.
I appreciate Mr K has been inconvenienced by Barclays decision not to pay his cheques. 
But Im satisfied Barclays followed the process it has in place to protect Mr Ks funds. 
Barclays also followed its process in sending Mr K letters to explain why his cheques 
weren't paid. 
Overall Barclays acted in Mr Ks interests by taking due care and attention. Im satisfied that 
it therefore acted appropriately and didn't treat Mr K unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I 
dont think Barclays needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2019.
 
Nimisha RadiaOmbudsman
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman