DRN-4385876
The complaint
Mr D complains about the outcome of a claim he made under Section 75 of The Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75) to Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr D took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BFP) to finance the purchase of a kitchen 
with a company Ill call W.
Our service has previously investigated a separate complaint made by Mr D against BPF in 
respect of a breach of contract claim. In that complaint, Mr D accepted the recommendation 
made by our investigator for a refund of the cost of the worktops and taps under Ws 
contract. However, Mr D remains unhappy about the kitchen and in particular Ws admission 
that they didnt design it correctly. Mr D says there was a design flaw with the cupboards 
which led to W not fitting them correctly.
BPF sent Mr D a final response letter saying they either needed a report showing the 
remaining issues with the kitchen or that Mr D should send them photos of every outstanding 
issue with clear labels from close up to a reasonable distance. Mr D said he had already 
sent in photos of the problems with the cupboard design and Ws attempts to provide a 
solution.
Our investigator looked into what happened and felt the fairest way to resolve the complaint 
was for Mr D to agree to an independent report showing the problems with the kitchen and 
their likely cause as well as the most appropriate way to remedy them. Mr D didnt agree and 
said the contract had clearly been breached and as such the contract was void taking into 
account relevant consumer protection legislation.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ds complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 15 September 2023, in which I said the 
following and which forms part of my final decision:
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable I need to have regard to, amongst other 
things, any relevant law. In this case, the relevant law is section 75 which subject to certain 
criteria, gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or 
the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. Im satisfied that the necessary criteria for a section 75 claim to be made by Mr D 
was met. 
This complaint has been slightly complicated in that, from what I can see, Mr Ds concern 
has always been that there was a flaw in the kitchen design by W and that this cuts across 
both complaints he has referred to us.
We have already looked at a separate complaint against BPF by Mr D in which, as Ive 
mentioned above, he accepted a remedy in respect of the worktop and the taps. As my 
decision relates to another complaint, I wont be issuing a decision on what was previously 
considered and accepted by Mr D. So, I wont be commenting on the breach of contract 
about the worktops or the taps and BPFs handling of Mr Ds claim about this including the 
remedy to this that Mr D accepted. If Mr D wasnt happy with that remedy, he had the option 
of asking for an ombudsmans decision on that. However, he chose not to do this.
The complaint I am looking at is one where it seems Mr D and our investigator have been at 
odds over what the complaint is. Our investigator focussed on the breach of contract being a 
contention that there were still faults from the kitchen installation that needs considering and 
possibly repairing whereas Mr D says that the breach has been established, and as such, 
what remains is consideration of an appropriate remedy to what is now a dispute about the 
validity of the contract.
As Mr D bought goods and services under a sales contract, the Consumer Rights Act 
(CRA) is relevant here. The CRA implies into a contract such as this a term that the 
contract will be performed with reasonable care and skill. What is considered reasonable 
care and skill is not focused on the results achieved but the manner in which the service was 
carried out.
I consider that Mr Ds complaint about the design of the kitchen being flawed is one where it 
can said, if shown, that the contract wasnt performed with reasonable care and skill. And, as 
such, Mr D would be entitled to an appropriate remedy under this legislation.
However, as it stands, I simply do not have enough persuasive evidence to show that the 
kitchen was poorly designed and, if it was, to what extent. For me to consider whether Mr D 
is entitled to a remedy, and what a fair and reasonable remedy might be, I would need more 
than the photos of the issues that Mr D has sent to us which he says were caused by W.
These dont in my view show an issue with the kitchen design as these are fairly close-up 
photos of certain items that, if shown to be faulty or poorly installed, could be items that are 
potentially straightforward to repair or replace.
If I had evidence from, say, a kitchen specialist or a kitchen installation specialist that sets 
out that the kitchen has been poorly designed and why, and what would be needed to 
remedy this, then I would potentially be able to make a direction to BPF on what I would feel 
was fair and reasonable. That could, depending on the evidence, be cancellation or recission 
of the contract. It might be that I would feel that repairing or replacing the items was 
appropriate. But, as it stands, I dont have enough evidence to show me what would be a fair 
and reasonable remedy.
So, at this stage, I dont agree that the contract should be treated as void as Mr D says. And 
it follows that I dont currently find that BPF handled his section 75 claim unfairly, which is 
essentially what this complaint is about.
My provisional decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I asked Mr D and BPF to send me any further comments or evidence. 
BPF replied saying they accepted my findings. Mr D replied saying, in summary, that BPF 
accepted there was a design flaw with the kitchen as did W but offered impractical solutions 
rather than agreeing to a redesign as is his right in law.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their responses to my provisional decision. 
Ive considered Mr Ds further comments and the evidence that hes sent. However, I go 
back to what I said in my provisional decision. I simply dont have enough evidence as to 
how and why the kitchen should be redesigned. That isnt to say that I think the kitchen 
definitely shouldnt be redesigned. But Im afraid without compelling evidence from a 
specialist on why this should happen, and the practicality of how, Im still not inclined to say 
that BPF has handled Mr Ds Section 75 claim on this particular issue unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman