DRN-4215213
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was misled into taking out a finance agreement with BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services (Alphera) at a higher cost than 
he could have got elsewhere.
What happened
Mr W acquired a used car from a dealership in November 2021. The car was acquired partly 
using a hire purchase agreement taken out with Alphera. The total amount Mr W needed to 
pay under the agreement was £31,569.22 and the duration of it was for 49 months. The 
interest rate applied to the agreement was 8.9% APR.
Mr W said that at the time, he was employed by another finance provider, and he said he 
was able to obtain a finance agreement through them at an APR of 4.9%. 
Mr W said that during the buying process he asked the dealer about the finance options 
available to him and he said he was told that he could only acquire the car using finance if 
he used their preferred finance provider, which was Alphera. He said he asked why he had 
to use their preferred finance provider and was told it was a condition of their stock funding 
from Alphera.
Mr W said he had already sold his previous car and so was in need of a replacement. So, he 
said he felt pressured into going ahead with the finance agreement with Alphera.
Mr W later complained to Alphera in April 2022 as he said he had to pay around double the 
interest over the term of the loan, compared to if he was able to proceed on the more 
favourable terms he said he could obtain from his employer. Mr W said he had been misled 
into financing the car at a higher cost than he should have.
Alphera gave Mr W their final response. They told Mr W there was no evidence provided to 
prove the alleged mis-sale of the car and that he had signed the finance agreement, 
agreeing to the APR set at the point of sale. They also said they spoke to the dealership he 
acquired the car from and they advised they let him know that Alphera was the preferred 
finance partner but they would have still sold him the car if he had sourced a different 
finance provider. 
Mr W, unhappy with Alpheras response, referred his complaint to our service. He explained 
that the key element of his complaint was the terms of the stock funding agreement Alphera 
had with the dealership and how he believed this created a conflict of interest with their 
unwillingness to allow customers to use other finance solutions from other providers. He said 
this has ultimately led to him paying more for credit.
During our involvement, Alphera provided an email chain between themselves and the 
dealership when Alphera inquired further into Mr Ws complaint points. It showed the 
dealership explaining that they were happy for Mr W to source a cheaper finance package, 
however they would not invoice a third-party company, mainly, because they did not know 
how the third-party operated. They said their approach to this is from a protection 
perspective so they will only invoice their own lenders in house due to having built a 
relationship with them over the years. The dealership explained to Alphera that they 
confirmed to Mr W at the time that they were happy for him to source finance elsewhere, 
however the third-party finance provider would have needed to work out logistics to have 
enabled Mr W to take advantage of their finance without the need to invoice themselves 
being the dealer.
Mr W provided our service with a screenshot of a conversation he held with a colleague at 
his work. He believed this showed the finance he was able to obtain. The screenshot 
showed brief details being given about the car attempted to be acquired and a summary of 
costings involved. Specifically, it showed the APR rate on his possible agreement as 4.9%. 
However, Mr W said he didnt pursue a formal application.
Mr W also provided our service with an extract of a call recording from around September 
2022. He said this was a call between himself and the dealership. This recording was a 
speculative call Mr W made to the dealership, attempting to replicate the circumstances of 
when he acquired his vehicle. During the call, a person can be said to say:
we dont accept any third-party finance, unfortunately.. 
He believed this recording showed the dealership had the same restrictive practices in place. 
A few moments later in the call a person clarified and said:
 if you want to get a bank loan, thats fine, we just wont invoice any third-party finance 
companies. 
Our investigator found that Alphera needed to do more to put things right. She found that the 
relevant legislation she referred to explained that finance providers are liable for what is said 
by credit brokers before a consumer takes out an agreement. And she also found that a 
false statement of fact was given to Mr W which induced him in to entering into a finance 
agreement he wouldnt have otherwise entered in to. 
She summarised that all the evidence provided by Mr W was strong enough to support his 
testimony that he was told he wouldnt be able to finance the car elsewhere. She directed 
Alphera to refund Mr W the difference between the 4.9% APR interest rate she thinks he 
would have been able to obtain and 8.9% APR interest rate Mr W paid while the agreement 
was active. She also directed Alphera to pay a further amount of £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Alphera disagreed with the investigators findings. Among other things, Alphera commented 
on the authenticity of the call recording extract provided by Mr W and how reliable it was, 
given both parties to the conversation were not aware they were being recorded. They also 
explained the dealership do not accept invoices from third-party lenders as they are not 
willing to invoice a third-party lender for a tri-partite agreement. So, they feel they did nothing 
wrong when the finance was taken out by Mr W.
As Alphera disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 June 2023 where I explained why I intended to not 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. In that decision I said:Its firstly worth pointing out to Mr W that it isnt my place to consider Alpheras, or the 
dealers, general business practices. I need to consider whats fair and reasonable in the 
specific circumstances of Mr Ws complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations 
and guidance. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that, under certain 
circumstances, finance providers are liable for what they say and for what is said by a credit 
broker or supplier before the consumer takes out the credit agreement.
It is clear in this case that the loan partly financed the purchase of the car. The company that 
sold the car was the dealership. I have approached this case on the basis that the loan was 
set up as a result of pre-existing arrangements between Alphera and the dealership and that 
section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act therefore applies.
Mr W complains he was misled into taking out a finance agreement with Alphera at a higher 
cost than he should have. So Ive considered if a misrepresentation occurred here.
I would consider a misrepresentation to have taken place if Mr W was told a false statement 
of fact that induced him into entering into the agreement he otherwise would not have. So 
ultimately, what I need to firstly consider is whether Mr W was told that he could only acquire 
the car with finance if it was taken out with their preferred lender, Alphera.
Mr W believes he has provided evidence which suggests the dealership has been 
communicating incorrect information to potential customers. And Mr W believes if they are 
giving incorrect information in this instance, then they did so when he took his agreement 
out.
While I have listened to the call recording extract supplied, I havent placed much weight on 
it in my considerations. I say this because, it isnt clear from it who Mr W was talking to, and 
whether all parties involved in the call were aware it was being recorded. It is also an extract 
of a call recording, and not a recording of the whole conversation. So, I dont think it is a 
reliable piece of evidence to consider.
Alphera has shown us an email exchange between themselves and the dealership. It shows 
the dealership explaining that they were happy for Mr W to source a cheaper finance 
package, however they would only invoice their own lenders in house due to having built a 
relationship with them over the years. The dealership explained to Alphera that they 
confirmed to Mr W at the time that they were happy for him to source finance elsewhere, 
however the third-party finance provider would have needed to work out logistics to have 
enabled Mr W to take advantage of their finance without the need to invoice themselves 
being the dealer. While I still think the call recording extract Mr W provided shouldnt be 
relied on, I have noted that a person on the call says something along similar lines.
Thinking about things here, Im more persuaded by what Alphera has told our service rather 
than the evidence Mr W has provided. I say this because I think what Alphera has said is 
plausible in this instance and it is likely what the dealership told Mr W. The dealership can 
choose who they wish to invoice, just as Mr W can choose what finance agreement he 
wishes to use. So I think it is unlikely a false statement of fact has been given. It follows I 
dont think the finance agreement was misrepresented to him.
Even if I reached the opposite conclusion above, I cant see that Mr W has lost out here. Ill 
explain why.Mr W has also provided a screenshot of a conversation he held with a colleague at his work. 
It briefly shows details of a finance quote, with a summary of costings involved. Im mindful 
this is not authorised pre contract credit information and that it isnt clear from the screenshot 
what car it involves. 
Mr W also says he didnt pursue a formal application with the third-party finance provider. A 
lender would normally reflect the level of risk (of not getting their money back) in the interest 
charged or other conditions of a loan. And generally, any rate given before a formal 
application or before a credit check is completed is an advertised rate and not a guarantee 
that rate is available to a potential customer. And so, I cant be sure that Mr W would have 
been able to obtain the credit at the rate he says he would have been able to. 
Ive also considered that the amounts quoted for differ from the finance Mr W actually took. 
So, even putting the above aside, I dont think these are like for like finance options and so 
cant be compared.
It follows all of this that Im not persuaded that Mr W couldve got finance at a lower rate than 
he did. So, either way, I cant see hes worse off.
I should also note that before the agreement was signed, Mr W wasnt bound by it and 
wasnt obligated to take the car. The car Mr W acquired was used, and a common model. 
Im persuaded he couldve found a very similar car elsewhere. So, Im satisfied he could 
have walked away at any time and acquired a different car from a different supplier if he 
wished.
I set out that I intended to not uphold this complaint. And I gave both parties the opportunity 
to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider before I issued 
my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr W responded and said, among other things, the alternative loan he would have used was 
a guaranteed offer of finance at the rate of 4.9% APR, regardless of the vehicle and would 
not have been subject to a variable rate based on his credit score or declined.
Mr W also commented on my suggestion that he could have walked away at any time during 
this sales process and said that Alphera had completed a hard credit search on his file after 
the dealership had clearly stated he could not finance elsewhere. And he said he had also 
sold his car rather than part exchanging with the dealership.
Mr W also asked for a copy of the email chain I relied on between Alphera and the 
dealership when reaching my provisional decision. Both parties were given an extension to 
the deadline I originally set to provide further comments.
Alphera didnt respond to my provisional decision before the deadline I set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts.Mr W says he could have received a 4.9% APR rate regardless of the vehicle and it would 
not have been based on his credit score or declined. But Ive noted Mr W hasnt provided 
evidence of this, despite the opportunity to do so. The brief screenshot Mr W supplied didnt 
suggest it was a guaranteed offer of finance and it wasnt authorised pre contract credit 
information. And so, I cant be sure that Mr W would have been able to obtain the credit at 
the rate he says he would have been able to. 
Mr W says Alphera had completed a hard credit search on his file after the dealership had 
clearly stated he could not finance elsewhere. But as Ive already said, before the agreement 
was signed, Mr W wasnt bound by it and wasnt obligated to take the car. Mr W could have 
walked away once he says he was told he could not finance elsewhere and before a hard 
credit search was completed on his file. In addition, as Mr W hadnt part exchanged the car 
with the dealership, he didnt have a prior relationship with them in relation to the sale of this 
car. Im persuaded he couldve found a very similar car elsewhere. So, Im satisfied he could 
have walked away at any time and acquired a different car from a different supplier if he 
wished.
Ultimately, I need to be persuaded that Alphera told Mr W a false statement of fact that 
induced him into entering into the agreement he otherwise would not have. On the evidence 
both parties have provided, I dont think Alphera did make a false statement of fact. It follows 
that I dont think Alphera needs to do more in this instance.
Mr W has been provided with a copy of the correspondence he requested which I relied 
upon in reaching my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman