DRN-3947593
Complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs D are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around November 2014, Mr and Mrs D were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs D decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In October 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ds behalf under section 140 of the 
Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs D to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs D or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs D and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
The CMC re-iterated that Mr and Mrs D were verbally told the FIT payments and 
savings on energy bills would cover the cost of the monthly payments and that the 
system would be self-funding. 
The CMC said that if Mr and Mrs D had known they would have to pay additional 
amounts to cover loan payments they would not have bought it as they couldnt 
afford to worsen their financial situation.
The CMC has added that their financial situation has worsened since they installed 
the system and theyre struggling to meet their expenses 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 140 and section 56 of the Act. Section 140A is 
about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In this case, the 
CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs D and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs D say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The cost of the system 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.Mr and Mrs D have said that the cost of the system was documented as £7,100. They have 
indicated that this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any interest 
associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £13,915.80.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs D were told that the cost of the system was £7,100. 
The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out 
that the cash price of the system was £7,100. The monthly payment was £77.31. The total 
amount of credit is £7,100 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£3,915.80.
Mr and Mrs D have added that they were not able to understand the detailed technical 
information provided by P. Ive also thought about the concerns they have raised over their 
financial situation at the time of sale. But, having reviewed everything provided, Im satisfied 
that the costs were set out clearly and they agreed to the purchase the system being fully 
aware of the cost including the finance. Additionally there were several weeks between the 
sales meeting and the system being installed, so if they had been concerned with any of the 
information given to them, or the costs associated with the system, I would have expected 
them to have raised this before accepting the serviced provided by P. Ive seen no evidence 
that they did. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £7,100, it 
would cost Mr and Mrs D more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest 
bearing loan. 
Self-funding 
Mr and Mrs D have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered 
the quote that was provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting 
with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs D could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs D could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £382.72, which results in an average monthly income of £31.89. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs D could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £262.13 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs D the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £796.94. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there 
would be a monthly loan repayment due of £77.31 (which is £927.72 annually). As a result, 
Im not able to conclude that the consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would 
be covered by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. 
Theres a section headed Repayments Options with three table showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months since this 
is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs D entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows 
the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £77.31. For each year of the 15-year loan 
it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £77.31, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs D could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. The table does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the 
consumers werent told that the FIT payments and savings would cover the loan repayment. 
Ive carefully thought about the consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that 
the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at 
the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and additional savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs D that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs D were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs 
D could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs D that the system would pay for 
itself by year 13, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into 
the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
The MCS certificate sets out what the system is expected to produce in kWh a year and I 
understand the solar panel system may not be performing in line with the estimates made. 
Currently there is no explanation as to why the energy generated is not in line with the 
estimates made - for example, it may be that the system was defective, or it developed a 
fault. Mr and Mrs Ds original claim was that the system was not generating the estimated 
financial returns (in FIT payments and savings on energy bills), that the financial benefits 
were not covering the monthly finance cost, and that the system had therefore been 
misrepresented on that basis. 
Shawbrook only dealt with that complaint, and itss answer is that the quote had made it 
clear Mr and Mrs D had not been told the system would be self-funding from the start. 
Shawbrook didnt have to go further than that and investigate whether the system was 
generating as much energy as P had estimated. This matter has only recently been raised 
with Shawbrook and will be dealt with separately by Shawbrook. Shawbrook has advised 
that P is trying to arrange an engineers visit directly with Mr and Mrs D to inspect the 
system. Mr and Mrs D should discuss this matter directly with Shawbrook to progress the 
investigation of this issue. However, I have not looked at it as part of this case.
I have only considered whether P made any misrepresentations when it estimated the 
financial returns Mr and Mrs D were likely to receive from the system, independently of the 
systems failure to generate as much energy as estimated.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why they havent been 
receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs D couldve expected to 
receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as 
high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs D entered into the contract.
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Considering that I havent 
found any misrepresentation and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P 
were reasonable, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship 
under section 140.
Financial difficulty 
The CMC says Mr and Mrs D are struggling to meet their essential expenditure including 
their utility bills. Where customers are experiencing financial difficulty, businesses are 
expected to treat them sympathetically. While Shawbrook has confirmed that their payments 
are up to date, if Mr and Mrs D require support, they need to contact Shawbrook directly. If 
they feel Shawbrook doesnt treat them fairly, they can refer the matter to this service 
separately. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs D 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So overall, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly for 
not accepting this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman