DRN-3114912
The complaint
Miss K complains that TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree wont offer her a competitive 
interest rate on her mortgage.
What happened
Miss K took out a mortgage with Northern Rock many years ago. In 2006 she took a five 
year fixed rate, running to 2011.
In 2007 and 2008, the financial crisis began. Northern Rock got into difficulties and stopped 
offering new mortgages, or new interest rates to existing customers. It then collapsed and 
was nationalised, and  like many others  Miss Ks mortgage was transferred to the 
successor company NRAM.
In 2011, Miss Ks fixed interest rate came to an end and she moved onto a discount rate, 
0.25% below the NRAM standard variable rate (SVR). NRAM did not make new interest 
rates available to its customers.
In 2016, some NRAM mortgages  including Miss Ks  were transferred to TSB Bank plc. 
To manage the ex-NRAM mortgages, TSB Bank plc set up a new brand or trading style 
which it called Whistletree.
However, Whistletree was and remained part of TSB Bank plc. TSB Bank plc then had two 
brands  Whistletree for its ex-NRAM customers, and TSB for its ex-Lloyds customers and 
customers whose mortgages began with TSB Bank plc. But while these were two brands, all 
customers remained customers of the firm TSB Bank plc.
From the time of the transfer from NRAM to TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree, it was still 
the case that no new rates were available to Whistletree customers  though TSB Bank plc 
did make new interest rates available to its TSB customers.
From late 2017, Whistletree did begin to make new rates available, though these rates were 
higher than those available to TSB customers. In April 2020, TSB Bank plc harmonised the 
rates, meaning both TSB and Whistletree customers could access similar rates from then 
on.
Miss K complains about her mortgage and the interest rate shes been charged. She says 
its not fair that shes been kept on the SVR. She says that when she did apply for a new 
rate, in 2019, the rate she was offered meant that her monthly payments would barely 
reduce at all compared to what she was paying on the SVR discount rate. She says that 
TSB customers could get much lower rates, which meant she wasnt treated fairly. She 
rejected the offer of a Whistletree rate. She says that it wasnt possible for her to move her 
mortgage to another lender because she would have to pay around £10,000 to do so  
which she couldnt do. So she was trapped with Whistletree, and it wasnt fair that she was 
paying a higher interest rate than TSB customers.
Our investigator didnt think there was a barrier to Miss K moving her mortgage elsewhere if 
she wanted to, and didnt think it was likely she would have to pay £10,000 to do so. He said 
that because she had the option of doing so, he didnt think that overall she had been treated 
unfairly. Miss K didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering what Miss Ks mortgage says  what the terms and conditions 
say she can expect.
When she took out her five year fixed rate in 2006, the mortgage offer made clear that at the 
end of the five year period, her mortgage would revert to the discount SVR rate. And it did 
not say that she would be entitled to a new interest rate then  or at any other time in the 
future. 
That means that in charging Miss K the SVR discount rate and not offering her a new fixed 
rate, NRAM and then TSB Bank plc has not breached the terms of the mortgage contract. 
The mortgage has operated as it should, contractually speaking.
However, thats not the end of the matter. No mortgage, from any lender, ever says that a 
borrower is entitled to or guaranteed a new rate when their old one expires. But at the same 
time, its a common feature of the mortgage market that, in practice, lenders often do make 
new rates available to existing customers, subject to eligibility criteria. And theres always the 
option to shop around, to move lender to seek out a better deal.
But while, as I say, thats what often happens in practice, theres nothing that says it has to. 
Not only is there nothing in Miss Ks mortgage contract that entitles her to a new rate, theres 
also nothing in the rules of mortgage regulation or in the law that requires any lender to offer 
existing customers new interest rates.
NRAM was a closed lender  it did not take on new mortgage business, and did not offer any 
customer new interest rates. So Miss K was treated the same as any other NRAM customer, 
and to that extent was not treated unfairly.
However, things were different once she moved to TSB Bank plc in 2016. TSB Bank plc is 
not a closed lender  it does offer new mortgages, and offer new rates to existing customers. 
So what I need to decide is whether it was fair and reasonable that it did not offer Miss K a 
new rate before 2019, and whether it was fair and reasonable that she was not offered a rate 
equivalent to rates a TSB customer would have been offered in 2019.
Nothing in Miss Ks contract, in the mortgage regulations or in the law required TSB Bank plc 
to offer her a new interest rate. But that was true for all TSB Bank plcs other customers too 
 yet if offered rates to those other customers. 
Where it decides to offer new rates to its customers, a lender is entitled to set eligibility 
criteria for those rates  meaning that, in practice, some customers will be eligible for new 
rates and some wont, and of those who are eligible, some may be offered lower rates than 
others. Thats a common feature of the mortgage market, and not unfair  many lenders 
offer, for example, better rates to customers with lower loan to value than to those with 
higher loan to value.
It's also true that where rates are available, theres no obligation for a lender to pro-actively 
offer rates  to contact customers and invite them to make an application. Some borrowers like to take new interest rates regularly and will make an application as their 
old one expires. Others will actively choose not to  say because they want to retain the 
flexibility to make overpayments, or dont want to be tied in. And still others simply overlook 
the need to apply or dont think about it. 
A lender will not know which of those categories any individual borrower is in  but the 
general principle is that where a borrower wants to change their interest rate, it is up to them 
to contact the lender and make an application, not the other way round.
Looking at this case, Ive not seen any evidence that Miss K made an application before 
2019. There are instances where she discussed her mortgage with Whistletree. But those 
are discussions about the mechanics of making her monthly payment  sometimes Miss K 
paid slightly late, or paid in instalments throughout the month. She also queried why her 
monthly payment had changed in 2017. But theres no record in Whistletrees records of 
Miss K asking for a new interest rate before 2019.
Miss K says she did ask, and doesnt believe Whistletrees records are accurate. And I cant 
discount that as a possibility. But she hasnt been able to provide any evidence, or point to a 
specific date, of having that discussion. And Whistletrees records are generally clear, and 
relatively detailed, with notes made at the time of the conversation. On the balance of 
probabilities, I think its more likely than not that Miss K did not ask for a new interest rate 
before 2019.
Had she applied, and had Whistletree refused her a rate, I might have considered that to be 
unfair. But the onus was on her to apply, and where she didnt do so  and where, had she 
done so, the outcome of that potential application isnt certain because it never happened  I 
cant say it was unfair that Whistletree didnt offer Miss K a rate. It couldnt respond to an 
application that was never made, and as Ive explained there was no requirement for it to 
pro-actively contact Miss K to make an offer.
Ill turn now to what happened when she did make an application in 2019. At that time, 
Whistletree did offer Miss K a rate. But she turned it down, because it would have made very 
little difference to her monthly payments.
At that time, the rates TSB Bank plc offered to its TSB customers were significantly lower 
than the rates it offered to its Whistletree customers. So I need to consider whether it was 
fair to offer Miss K only a Whistletree rate  not a TSB rate, or a Whistletree rate at a level 
equivalent to a TSB rate.
The part of the regulators rules dealing with mortgages is known as MCOB. One part of 
MCOB is section 11.8.1 E. The E denotes an evidential provision  meaning its not a rule 
mandating or prohibiting certain behaviour, its a provision that sets out the types of 
behaviour that might in certain circumstances be considered unfair.
MCOB 11.8.1 E says 
Where a customer is unable to:
(1) Enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan or vary the 
terms of an existing regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with the 
existing mortgage lender or home purchase plan provider; or
(2) Enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with a new 
mortgage lender or home purchase provider;the existing mortgage lender or home purchase providers should not (for example, by 
offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take advantage of the 
customers situation or treat the customer any less favourably than it would treat other 
customers with similar characteristics. To do so may be relied on as tending to show 
contravention of Principle 6 (customers interests).
Principle 6 is one of the regulators overarching principles; it requires firms to pay due regard 
to their customers interests and treat them fairly.
What this means, then, is that it may be unfair (though in some circumstances it may not) for 
a lender to treat a customer less favourably  including by offering less favourable interest 
rates  than it would treat other customers with similar characteristics. Though this only 
applies if the customer is either 1) unable to vary or replace their mortgage with their existing 
lender, or 2) unable to move to another lender.
I havent seen anything unusual about Miss K or her mortgage. The mortgage wasnt in 
arrears, she had a low loan to value. I think it very likely that there were other customers of 
TSB Bank plc  both Whistletree and TSB customers  with similar characteristics to Miss K. 
I dont think the mere fact of being put by TSB Bank plc into the Whistletree or TSB brand 
amounts to a characteristic of the customer. Nor do I think that the reason why they are in 
that brand  because of how their mortgages originated many years ago  is relevant to their 
characteristics in 2019. 
When considering TSB customers for a rate, TSB Bank plc considers matters such as loan 
to value and whether the mortgage was in arrears. Miss K met those conditions when she 
applied in 2019.
Im therefore satisfied that, in 2019, Miss K had similar characteristics to other customers of 
TSB Bank plc who would have been offered a TSB rate  and she was offered a less 
favourable rate than those other customers.
However, Im not persuaded that this is enough, of itself, to say that MCOB 11.8.1 E is 
engaged, or that TSB Bank plc has treated Miss K unfairly.
Ive said that a lender is entitled to have eligibility criteria  meaning it does not have to treat 
all customers the same. 
MCOB 11.8.1 E only applies where a customer is either unable to vary or replace their 
mortgage with their existing lender, or unable to move elsewhere. Im not persuaded that this 
applies to Miss K.
Whistletree did offer to vary Miss Ks mortgage, by offering her a new rate  albeit not one as 
low as she would have liked. So I cant say she was unable to vary her mortgage with her 
existing lender.
Miss K says she was unable to move her mortgage elsewhere. She says she had been 
advised of that by a broker. And she says that even if she was able in principle to move, it 
would cost her £10,000 to do so  making it impossible in practice.
Im not persuaded it would cost her £10,000. There was no early repayment charge on her 
mortgage. The only fee to pay to Whistletree if she moved was a £250 exit fee. 
Many brokers do not charge their customers for finding a new mortgage, but instead get paid 
commission by lenders. Miss K would have had to pay a valuation fee to a new lender, and perhaps legal fees to set 
up a new mortgage (though some lenders offer this for free where its a re-mortgage rather 
than a property purchase). 
In addition to that, there may be a product arrangement fee with a new lender  product fees 
are typically £499 or £999 (though they can be added to the loan balance rather than paid 
upfront)  but most lenders also offer fee-free products. So there could have been no 
obligation on Miss K to pay this either. 
Taking all that into account, I dont think that £10,000 is a realistic estimate of what it would 
have cost Miss K to move her mortgage. And any costs there were would need to be offset 
against the savings in reducing her interest rate (and thereby her monthly payments).
And Im also not persuaded that she would have failed in an application to another lender. 
Her mortgage had been up to date for some years. She had a relatively low balance and a 
very low loan to value  so would have been seen as a low-risk proposition. While shes 
self-employed, that is not a bar to getting a mortgage. 
Miss K has provided us with extracts of emails from a broker which she says she consulted, 
and which told her it wouldnt be able to help her. She hasnt been able to give us the full text 
of the emails. But the parts she has given us are headed Great News! and Your 
application, and invite her to get back in touch when shes decided to go ahead. These are 
not persuasive evidence that the broker told her it couldnt place her with any new lender.
I dont therefore think that its likely Miss K was unable to move to another lender. Theres 
nothing about her or her mortgage that seems to make that problematic, and the evidence 
from the broker she did consult suggests to me that it was confident it could assist her. And 
Im not persuaded that the costs of doing so were prohibitive  or were costs imposed by 
Whistletree, or costs that wouldnt be faced by any borrower changing lender.
That means that I dont think Miss K comes within the scope of MCOB 11.8.1 E  she is not 
someone unable to move her mortgage to another lender, and she was offered a rate to vary 
her existing mortgage.
And in any case, as Ive said, MCOB 11.8.1 E is an evidential provision, not a rule  setting 
out the sorts of things which might  or might not, depending on the circumstances  tend to 
show unfairness.
Ive thought about what 11.8.1 E says, as well as the context in which it was introduced by 
the regulator.
Ive said that a lender is entitled to have eligibility criteria  meaning some customers will be 
able to get a rate and some wont, and that of those who do not all will get the same rate. 
11.8.1 E was aimed at, it seems to me, the unfairness that may result where a borrower is 
unable to move their mortgage or shop around for a better deal, and is taken advantage of  
for example by being offered worse rates  by their existing lender when they have no other 
options. But Miss K did have other options. This was not her situation. 
While the regulatory provisions are one consideration, they are just one of the factors Im 
required to take into account in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I have thought carefully about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And while 
I do understand that Miss K wanted Whistletree to offer her a lower rate, I also have to bear 
in mind that a lender does not have to offer every customer its lowest rates, and its part of how the mortgage market functions that customers can  and do  shop around to find the 
best deal for them. In doing so, they can take into account matters such as the rate, but also 
any associated fees, tie in periods and so on.
Miss K was able to do that. She had options with her existing lender  and she also had 
options to shop around and see what else might be available to her. Im not persuaded that 
she was unable to do so  either because of her personal or mortgage situation, or because 
of the costs of doing so. TSB Bank plc made a lower rate available to her when she applied 
for one  and she was able to move her mortgage elsewhere if she didnt think that was the 
right rate for her.
And in those particular circumstances, Im not persuaded that TSB Bank plc treated her 
unfairly when it offered her the rate that it did in 2019.
I must also bear in mind that Ive found that Miss K would most likely have been able to 
move her mortgage to another lender had she gone ahead with an application to do so. Ive 
said that I dont think it was unfair that Miss K was offered a higher Whistletree rate rather 
than a lower rate equivalent to what would have been offered to a TSB customer. But even if 
Im wrong about that, Miss K didnt have to stay with Whistletree. She could have got a 
better rate than the one Whistletree offered her by shopping around. It would therefore be 
difficult for me to conclude that TSB Bank plc was responsible for all her losses even if I 
thought it had acted unfairly. 
For all those reasons, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman