DRN-3537466
The complaint
Mr B complains that Interactive Investor Service Limited (II) failed to notify him of changes 
to the cost and related charges associated with his share dealing account.
What happened
In February 2008 Mr B purchased shares in a company, I shall refer to as Company A. Mr 
B was also an employee of Company A at that time. The shares were held on a share 
dealing platform and he was being charged a £10.00 plus VAT quarterly administration fee. 
In 2011 Mr B was made redundant. In 2014 his shares were moved to another share dealing 
platform who charged him a £24.00 quarterly admin fee. In June 2017 it was publicly 
announced that II would be acquiring the brokerage division of this share dealing platform. 
Mr Bs shares transferred over to II around December 2017. II initially charged a quarterly 
admin fee of £22.50 in January 2018. II says it emailed Mr B in November 2017 to make him 
aware of the new terms and rates. In 2019 II further updated its pricing structure to a monthly 
fee of £9.99. Again, it says it made Mr B aware of this change via email. 
In May 2021 Mr B received a letter from II regarding his shares. Following this, he contacted 
II and obtained access to his online account. Having done so, he discovered a message 
explaining he was being charged a £9.99 monthly fee. 
Mr B raised a complaint to II as he was unhappy that, despite living at the same address 
since he invested, hed never received a letter confirming the transfer of his shares to the 
various share dealing platforms, including II. He was also unhappy that II hadnt send him a 
letter to confirm the monthly fee hed been charged. He said his portfolio value was quite 
small and so there was no benefit in him paying for a service which would reduce the value 
of his investment. Mr B said had he known about the fees he wouldnt have kept his shares 
with II. 
II looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. II said:
II had merged with the previous share dealing platform and prior to this, the share 
dealing platform made a business decision to refund the £24.00 quarterly admin fees 
as a gesture of goodwill. However, this isnt something which II continued to offer 
upon the merger. 
As part of its obligation to inform customers regarding any updates to the terms of 
service for their accounts, II sent notifications to all account holders using the email 
addresses held at that time. And in cases where emails bounced back as 
undelivered, the updated terms were posted.
It had sent Mr B an email explaining its takeover of the previous share dealing 
platform and another email notifying him of the changes to its pricing and new terms. 
Whilst Mr B said that the email address II had on file for him was his old work email 
address and so he never received the notifications II said it had sent, II said it was 
his responsibility to keep track of where his shares where held and to keep his 
details updated. 
II said It hadnt received any non-delivery notifications back when emailing Mr Bs 
email address and  it done so, it would have contacted him via letter.
It agreed to allow Mr B to withdraw his shares in a certificated form and to withdraw 
the remaining cash in his account at his own cost. 
Mr B decided to certificate his remaining shares at his own cost, but he didnt agree with IIs 
findings and so referred his complaint to this Service for an independent review.
An investigator at this Service considered Mr Bs complaint and felt II had acted unfairly. He 
said:
Whilst he was satisfied that IIs standard method of communication was email and 
that it did send correspondence to the email address it had on record, he didnt think 
II had satisfied its regulatory requirement to make Mr B aware of important changes 
to his account.
Whilst II said it hadnt received a non-delivery email when emailing Mr B, Mr B had 
provided evidence to show emailing his old work email does result in an non-delivery 
email being returned. Given the length of time that has passed since Mr B left his job 
with Company A, the investigator said he found find it unlikely that this notification 
would be received in 2022 but not in 2017 and 2019 when II had emailed.
Regardless of whether II received an undeliverable notification, he said II had a 
postal address on file and couldnt understand why it didnt contact him via this 
method, especially considering it decided to do so in May 2021. 
The changes to the terms were especially significant because the fees were 
deducted directly from the holding in the account. They werent charged, for example, 
via a direct debit from Mr Bs current account and so without being made aware of 
them he would have no way of knowing or agreeing to the fees.
II should have made sure to contact Mr B and make him aware of the updated fee 
structure in 2017 and 2019. Had it done so, he felt Mr B would have removed his 
shares from the platform and paid to have them certificated in his name much earlier.
So to put things right, he directed II to determine how many of Mr Bs shares it sold in 
order to pay the fees since 2017 and reinstate them to his account. And to allow him 
to decide if he would like to keep them on the platform or withdraw them to be 
certificated in his name. If Mr B chose to do withdraw then he said II should cover 
any costs associated with having the shares registered in his name, as hed already 
covered this cost once.
II didnt accept the investigators finding as it said it was Mr Bs responsibility to update II with 
any changes to his contact details and it had given him sufficient notice of the changes. 
As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for the same reasons. 
The Financial Conduct Authority sets out rules which regulated businesses, such as II, 
should follow in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). COBS 2.2A.2R explains:
(1) A firm must provide appropriate information in good time to a client with
regard to:(d) all costs and related charges.
II accepts that it has a regulatory requirement to provide Mr B with information regarding its 
costs and charges, but it says it met this requirement by sending him notifications via email. 
Whilst II has been able to evidence by way of internal screenshots that it sent the required 
notifications via email, Ive also considered the evidence provided by Mr B. This shows a 
non-delivery email is received when emailing his old work email address. 
Having weighed up both pieces of evidence, Im persuaded that its more likely than not that 
II would have received a non-delivery email when it contacted Mr B in 2017 and 2019 about 
the changes to its charging structure. I say this as Mr B had left his employment with 
Company A six years prior to II first contacting him via email and so I find it highly unlikely 
that his email address would have still been working at that time. Furthermore, whilst the 
internal screenshots provided by II show that emails where sent, these dont confirm that 
they were successfully received. So I dont think II has followed its own process for when it 
receives a bounce back and so it hasnt treated Mr B fairly.
II had a postal address on file for Mr B and it communicated this way with him following a call 
he had with it in May 2021. This begs the question why II didnt contact him by letter to 
ascertain whether hed received the notifications regarding the changes to costs associated 
with his account. Afterall, II was aware that hed never logged on to his account online but 
continued to communicate with him via secure message which prompted an email message 
to be sent. 
The changes to Mr Bs account were significant, especially considering the original quarterly 
fee and then monthly fee were being deducted directly from his shareholding. I understand II 
says Mr B was always charged a fee by the previous share dealing platforms, however, the 
fees II charged were much higher than hed originally accepted when initially purchasing his 
shares. And II had received no communication from Mr B to demonstrate that hed accepted 
these higher costs. Nor was there any implied acceptance, such as him logging on to his 
account or making any trades. So overall, Im satisfied II failed to notify Mr B of all the costs 
and charges associated with his account.
Putting things right
When Mr B originally purchased his shares, he accepted that he would be charged a £10.00 
plus VAT quarterly admin fee. This increased to a £22.50 quarterly admin fee in January 
2018 when his shares were transferred to II. Mr B says he would have certificated his shares 
as soon as he was made aware of the increased charges. Considering the increase was 
more than double than what he was originally paying I think its likely he would have 
certificated his shares prior to the increase in the fee in January 2018. In which case, he 
would never have had any of these fees or the monthly fees of £9.99 introduced in 2019 
deducted from his shareholding. 
So to put things right I direct II to determine how many of Mr Bs shares it sold from January 
2018 onwards in order to pay the fees and reinstate these shares to his account. It should 
then cover any costs associated with having them certificated in his name. I say this as hes 
already paid to have his remaining shares registered in his name and had he been made 
aware of the fees earlier, Im satisfied he would have certificated his full shareholding at 
once. 
My final decisionI uphold the complaint for the reasons I have set out above. Interactive Investor Service 
Limited must put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman