DRN-3026603
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE has declined a claim she made 
under her property owners insurance policy.
Mr L has helped represent Mrs L in this case. But, as the policy is in Mrs Ls name, and for 
ease of reference, Ive only referred to Mrs L below. 
What happened
Mrs L has explained that in early 2020, the local water company dropped a letter meant for 
her into a neighbouring business  because her property, which is rented out  didnt have a 
letter box in use at the time.
Mrs L has explained she didnt receive this letter until March 2020 when it was given to her. 
And at this point she became aware that the water company had been attempting to contact 
her about a leak it had said was ongoing, coming from pipework on her property. The water 
company noted that because the problem was with the supply pipe serving Mrs Ls property, 
she would need to resolve the issue.
So, Mrs L set about working out how to do this. In April 2020, a meeting was arranged with 
the water company, so the parties could discuss how to resolve the leak. The supply pipe at 
the property extended to around 29m. Given digging up and replacing all of this pipeline 
would be a large job, Mrs L agreed an alternative repair method.
Instead of digging up and replacing all 29m of the piping, Mrs L would arrange for 9m of 
pipework to be dug up and replaced. This pipework would be the water supply in future, with 
the pipe re-routed and going into the building at the end of this 9m, with a new water meter 
at the end of it. This would mean approximately 20m of pipework could be cut off at both 
ends, and the old water meter would no longer in use. 
Mrs L said they set to work getting the above method completed. And when they got the 9m 
worth of pipework dug up, they didnt identify any damage of this pipe at all which could have 
been the cause of the leak the water company said was present. As there was no damage to 
the pipework dug up, Mrs L concluded the leak must have been somewhere on the other 
20m of the pipework no longer in use. Mrs L got the water company to come out and 
complete an audio test to see if it could hear a leak any longer, and it couldnt, so both 
parties considered the leak resolved. 
As the work above cost more than Mrs L expected it to, she contacted Liberty to make a 
claim under her property owners policy. Mrs Ls claim was then declined. It was noted that 
Mrs Ls policy did provide cover for underground services, but only where there was 
evidence that the loss was as a result of an insured peril. 
Mrs L said she had cover for escape of water from a pipe under her policy, as well as cover 
for accidental damage to buildings  which included pipes. So, she felt the loss was covered 
under her policy. Mrs L agreed that she hadnt identified the proble, but that it must be a leak 
in the remaining 20m of the pipe not dug up. And she felt it was unreasonable that Liberty 
would expect her to dig this up to find the problem  at a greater expense  when this didnt 
need to happen to solve the issue.
In addition to this, Mrs L thought the leak must have been caused by accidental damage 
because;
She said she had been told that pipework downstream of a stop valve (i.e. the water 
companys) would usually be continuous, without joints, to avoid weak pipes;
The ph of the water running through the supply pipe was of drinking water quality, 
and therefore wouldnt be chemically able to corrode or erode the pipework and 
cause damage that way;
The pipework, which was replaced in the 1980s had a lifespan of 50-75 years.
For these reasons Mrs L thought the damage must have been caused by excessive force of 
the pipework a number of years ago, when the local fire brigade were fitting fire stairs to a 
building. 
Mrs Ls representations didnt alter the decision on the claim. So, she raised a complaint 
about the matter. But, the insurers position on the matter was maintained. Because Mrs L 
remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator reviewed this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said they 
hadnt seen evidence that the problem with the pipework was due to an insured peril under 
the policy. And so, they didnt ask Liberty to do anything more.
Mrs Ls response
Mrs L didnt think this was fair  and reiterated points made previously. In addition to this, 
she said the policy she had was designed to cover sudden and unexpected events, and this 
was sudden and unexpected.
Mrs L asked our investigator to see if Liberty would contribute something to the cost of the 
work completed as a gesture of goodwill. Liberty responded and said it wouldnt do so. It 
said that on looking at the information provided, it could see the claim had actually been 
dealt with by the wrong insurer initially, but that it stood by the decision made previously, 
based on the information it had seen. 
Mrs L said that if the claim had been sent to the right place initially, then perhaps her loyalty 
as a customer of many years would have also been a factor in the claims decision. 
Because Mrs L remained in disagreement with our investigators opinion, this complaint has 
been referred to me to decide. 
I provided a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said; 
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im not intending on upholding this complaint. I do appreciate this will be 
upsetting to Mrs L. She has needed to go through inconvenience to remedy the leak, and at 
her own expense. But at this point I dont think Libertys decision to decline the claim is 
unreasonable, based on what Ive seen. Ive explained why below. Ive reviewed Mrs Ls policy, to see what cover it provides. And I can see the policy does 
provide cover for damage to underground services, such as pipes, if the damage was by an 
insured peril. And the insured perils the policy covers are listed in the policy booklet. This is 
common with insurance policies such as this. 
It is important to note at this stage, that it is the duty of the policyholder to prove they have a 
valid claim, which is covered under the policy. If this isnt proven, then a claim wont be 
successful. So, Ive considered whether I think Liberty has acted fairly or not, in saying Mrs L 
hasnt shown damage by an insured peril occurred. 
So, Ive needed to firstly consider whether there was damage in the instance, and secondly 
whether this damage was caused by an insured peril. 
Was there damage?
Mrs Ls policy defines what is considered to be damage. This is;
The term Damage when referred to in this Policy shall mean loss or destruction of or 
damage to Property Insured by an Insured Peril (stated on the schedule as being operative) 
or any other cause insured under the respective Section other than as excluded hereafter.
Ive seen a copy of a letter from the water company noting there being a leak, and this 
needing to be fixed. So, whilst the pipe was still functioning (there hasnt been anything to 
say the water supply to the property was affected), I do think its most likely there was some 
loss or destruction to the pipe itself. If there wasnt, it wouldnt have been leaking. 
Was the damage caused by an insured peril?
Given Ive concluded that its likely there was some loss or destruction to the pipe in 
question, Ive considered whether Liberty has acted fairly in saying the damage wasnt 
caused by an insured peril. Ive thought carefully about this. And at this point I think Liberty 
did act fairly by saying there was no evidence of an insured peril causing the problem. So, 
Im intending on finding that Liberty has acted fairly by declining the claim.
Both Mrs L and Liberty have mentioned the escape of water peril. This covers damage to the 
property due to escape of water from any tank, apparatus or pipe. But I dont think this peril 
is relevant to the claim here. I say this because Im satisfied this peril is there to cover water 
damage, where it has escaped from a pipe, not cover the pipe itself. And, Im aware there 
was no water damage to the property.
But both parties have referred to the fact Mrs L has cover for accidental damage to buildings. 
And this includes damage to underground services such as piping. 
The term accident is defined within the policy. And it means  damage caused by accidental 
and external means. I take accidental to mean sudden and unexpected  which is the usual 
understanding of the word accidental. And external means, being damage caused to the 
pipe by something other than the pipe itself causing the loss or destruction. So, Ive thought 
about whether there is evidence to suggest it was more likely than not the damage was 
caused by something accidental and external.
The problem with the pipe in this case does appear to be sudden and unexpected. There 
wasnt anything to suggest there was a problem with the pipe before the water company 
wrote to Mrs L about the presence of a leak. 
But Im not satisfied Mrs L has shown the damage was caused by something external. Mrs L 
has said the only external event she can think of that caused have caused damage was the installation of some fire steps, built close to the pipework, some years ago. Liberty has said it 
hasnt seen any evidence to show this installation caused the damage to the pipework. And I 
think its position in respect of this is fair and reasonable. 
Mrs L is looking back with hindsight to try and identify something that might be relevant. I 
appreciate why Mrs L is doing that. But I cant see any firm information has been provided to 
show the work completed at the time caused the pipe to be damaged, therefore causing a 
leak. 
It was clearly some years back that the stairs were installed. And Mrs L has said she has 
seen the water company come and listen to the pipework in her area, to see if there were 
any leaks, approximately a couple of times each year. If thats the case, then I think its fair 
to say a leak caused by installation of stairs installed years ago would have been picked up 
previously. But it wasnt. A leak was picked up at the beginning of 2020 instead.
Mrs L has also submitted information that she has said proves that the leak must have been 
caused by external means. She has noted that a process of elimination shows that the leak 
couldnt have been caused by a form of wear and tear, given the ph of the water in the pipe, 
the fact there isnt likely to be any joints in the pipework, and the general lifespan of plastic 
pipes. 
But I dont think the process of elimination here is enough to say that an insured peril  that 
is damage caused by accidental and external means  was the cause here. I havent seen 
any investigations on the pipework that point to damage caused by external and accidental 
means  like CCTV surveys of the condition within the pipe, identifying the problem area and 
the cause. And there are no persuasive comments from any contractor to show the cause of 
the damage either. 
I do appreciate why Mrs L has explained the 20m worth of pipework wasnt dug up or looked 
into further given she didnt feel this would be economical. And that the 9m that was 
excavated didnt have anything wrong with it. But whilst it might be fair to assume the leak 
was on the 20m worth of pipework  it doesnt follow that the damage causing the leak was 
because of accidental or from external means. There could be a range of reasons for the 
leak. And there isnt sufficient evidence to show it was most likely caused by accidental 
damage. 
With the above in mind, I think Liberty has come to a reasonable conclusion in this case. 
And so, I dont intend on requiring it to do anything more.
 
Liberty responded to my provisional decision, and noted it had nothing further to add on the 
matter.
Mrs L responded too. She didnt agree with the decision reached. In summary, Mrs L said;
That when she found out about the leak, she did what she felt was reasonable at the 
time, to keep costs low and resolve the problem as efficiently as possible. 
Believing she would be covered by the insurance policy, she completed the repair 
recommended by the utility company. 
Digging the whole pipe up to investigate the matter would have been costly and 
would have caused delays. Which was made worse by the fact the country was in a 
coronavirus lockdown at the time she became aware of the problem. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. This includes the further comments 
provided by Mrs L.
And, having done so, my final decision remains the same as in my provisional decision. Ive 
thought carefully about what Mrs L has said in her response. But I dont think she has 
provided any new comments or evidence to alter my decision that Liberty acted reasonably. 
I wont repeat the details of my provisional details here  as they can be found above. 
Except to say that Mrs L would have needed to show the loss was caused by an insured 
event within her policy. It is the policyholders responsibility to do so. In this case the relevant 
event would have been accidental damage to buildings. And I dont think this has been 
shown.
Mrs L has noted the impracticalities of digging up the 20m section of pipe that was cut off. 
And I do understand why she took that step. As well as her explanation in respect of delays 
and cost during the lockdown. But the leak having likely come from somewhere on that 
section of pipe, doesnt mean the damage causing the leak was because of accidental 
damage or came from external means  there could be a range of reasons for the leak. And 
I havent seen any firm evidence to show a contractor wasnt able to come out to diagnose 
the cause of the leak (a contractor came out and met Mrs L to discuss works). 
With the above in mind, Im satisfied that there isnt sufficient evidence to show it was most 
likely caused by accidental damage. And so, Liberty acted reasonably in declining the claim. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont 
require Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman