DRN-2932742
The complaint
Mr A and Miss T complain AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly declined their Buildings 
Insurance claim.
All references to AXA also include its agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr A and Miss T have strong views about what has happened, and they have 
provided numerous submissions to support the complaint. I want to assure them Ive read 
and considered what theyve said carefully, but my decision focusses on what I consider to 
be the central issues of the complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
For a claim to be successful a customer needs to prove an insured event has taken 
place
AXA said the weather conditions at the time of the storm werent enough to be 
considered a storm. 
I understand there may have been adverse weather on the day of the incident, but I 
must be satisfied those conditions were enough to be considered a storm
AXAs definition of a storm isnt detailed in the policy, but they said it is minimum 
wind speeds of 55 mph. Its not unusual for insurers to use similar wind speeds when 
defining the criteria of a storm, so I dont think what AXA has said here is 
unreasonable
But Ive also thought about winds speeds that can cause structural damage
AXA said the Met Office reported wind speeds of 40 mph on the day of the incident, 
but Mr A and Miss T said they were told by the Met Office the wind speeds were 
around 53 mph
Because of this, AXA called the Met Office to clarify. Ive listened to the call and I can 
see the Met Office confirmed the wind speeds as 40 mph in Mr A and Miss Ts 
postcode on the day of the incident. So Im satisfied the speed reported by AXA from 
the Met Office is correct
Ive also considered other weather services show wind speeds of up to 45 mph on 
the day of the incident
Having considered the evidence available to me, Im not persuaded the wind speeds 
were high enough to be considered a storm.  So I dont think AXA has acted 
unreasonably by declining to provide cover based on there not being storm 
conditions present
However, I also note AXA have said they believe the main cause of the damage was 
due to the fittings around the damaged window deteriorating over time  and 
highlights the policy doesnt cover this either. Mr A and Miss T disagree and say the 
force of the wind caused the fixings to break
I can see from photos provided by both AXA, and Mr A and Miss T, that the condition 
of the window was showing signs of wear and tear. For example, I can see what 
appears to be Mastic (as described by AXA in their report) or some other kind of 
sealant around the window frame
Ive also considered the photos of the fittings, and I can see there are signs of what 
appears to be general deterioration to them as described by AXA. So while the 
adverse weather may have served to highlight an issue, Im not persuaded it was the 
main cause of the damage
Mr A and Miss T have provided a quote from a contractor for work to rectify storm 
damage. But this a quote, and not a report, and contains no details supporting why 
the damage is storm related. The comments from AXA, provide detail as to why the 
fittings are worn  with supporting photos, so Im more persuaded by what theyve 
said
So even if I was satisfied storm conditions were present, I cant say AXAs conclusion 
regarding the condition of the window frame is obviously wrong, and it therefore 
appears more likely than not Mr A and Miss Ts claim would have been declined for a 
different reason in any event
Mr A and Miss T have also reported water ingress inside their home. AXA says this is 
also excluded from cover,
The policy says it excludes any accidental damage caused by water coming into the 
property irrespective of how this may have occurred other than due to a storm. As 
Ive said above, Im not persuaded there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, so I dont think AXA have acted unfairly in declining a claim for the water 
damage to Mr A and Miss Ts bathroom
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think AXAs decision to decline Mr A and 
Miss Ts complaint is obviously wrong, so I dont intend to interfere with it
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr A and Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman