DRN-2020890
The complaint
Ms Js complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) relates to her request for chargeback 
disputes to be raised and Monzos decision to close her account.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Ms J and Monzo, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Ms J opened an account with Monzo in November 2018. In so far as this complaint is 
concerned she wished to raise 3 chargebacks in relation to transactions with 3 different 
companies I shall call FS, SP and VF. Monzo declined to raise a chargeback in relation to 
FS because it said Ms J hadnt supplied sufficient evidence and as FS had tried to resolve 
the dispute with her directly. Further information was however supplied by Ms J, but Monzo 
missed it and although telling her a chargeback had been raised, in fact it had not. Monzo 
apologised and offered Ms J £50 in compensation.
In relation to SP Monzo declined the chargeback request as Ms J still had the disputed item 
in her possession. And in relation to VF Monzo declined to raise this chargeback as Ms J 
raised it after they had decided to close her account.
On the 3 February 2020 Monzo gave Ms J 2 months notice of their intended closure of her 
account in accordance with their terms and conditions. The account was then closed on the 
3 April. 
Monzo rejected Ms Js complaint in the main, as they didnt believe they had acted unfairly, 
save for their errors regarding the chargeback request for FS.
Ms J was unhappy with Monzos final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. One of our investigators looked into the complaint, and 
having done so, concluded that although there had been poor service by Monzo regarding 
FS, the amount of compensation Monzo had offered to Ms J was enough to put things right. 
With regard to the other elements of her complaint, the investigator did not think that Monzo 
had done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Ms J didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered both sides views in considering whether Monzo acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Monzo has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
I think it is important to clarify what a chargeback dispute actually is. Its a process by which 
some disputes are resolved between card issuer, in this case Monzo, and merchants under 
the relevant card scheme rules. These rules are set by the card provider, whose symbol is 
on the card, which in this case is Mastercard. The card provider has an agreement with 
banks as to how its cards are used, which covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be 
made, which of course if successful would result in the customer having the money they 
spent on the card returned. The rules are quite strict, and Monzo doesn't have the power to 
change them. Crucially, a chargeback request just means a bank will ask for the money back 
- it doesnt mean it will get it. 
But a further important consideration is this; Monzo arent required to ask the scheme 
provider for a transaction to be reversed and need only do so if they think its likely to 
succeed. It is generally good practice for a card provider to try one if theres a reasonable 
prospect of it being successful, but that is a decision and judgement call for Monzo to make. 
It follows that if they think the chargeback is likely to be rejected by the card provider then 
they dont have to raise it. 
Turning to Ms Js complaint, looking first at the issue of FS, Monzos position is that they feel 
the chargeback would not have been successful. I can see they evaluated the evidence she 
initially provided and took account of all the circumstances. I accept that further information 
was provided which Monzo accept they missed, but they have subsequently confirmed that 
their decision would have remained that there were no good prospects of the claim being 
successful. Whilst Ms J disagrees, I cant say Monzos view was wholly wrong and I think 
they reached a reasonable view. As such I dont think they did anything wrong. They did of 
course give Ms J wrong information about the status of her request and as I say they missed 
some further information, but they have apologised for that and offered to pay Ms J £50.
As to SP, when Ms J initially raised the chargeback dispute in January she said she had 
returned the item in dispute, when in fact she hadnt. The evidence for that comes from her 
later message to Monzo in April to say that she was waiting for SP to pick the item up. 
Monzo also asked Ms J to provide evidence of her communication with SP notifying them a 
refund had not been received and what SP had offered as a resolution. But that information 
was not available either. So, against this background, I dont think Monzo acted unfairly in 
not raising the dispute for Ms J, as it is a requirement of the scheme that the item in dispute 
must be first returned, and it wasnt.
In relation to VF, this chargeback claim was raised after Ms Js account was closed. The 
reason Ms Js account was closed is because Monzo decided she was abusing the 
chargeback process. I can see that Ms J had a number of chargebacks, some of which have 
been successful. I make no finding as to whether Ms J was abusing the scheme or not, 
because it is not relevant to Monzos rights to close the account. The terms and conditions 
which govern the account do provide that either party can close the account, but if Monzo 
wish to do it all they have to do is give 2 months notice. There is no requirement for any 
reasons to be given if such notice is given. As this chargeback was raised after Monzo had 
closed the account, the relationship they had with their customer Ms J had ended. I have no 
doubt that had a bearing on their decision to not raise a chargeback, but ultimately it is a 
discretionary step and I cant say, given the balance of evidence, that Monzo were unfair in 
choosing not to raise it.Monzo has accepted that it didnt get things right in relation to FS and because of that it 
should compensate Ms J. As such, it offered Ms J £50. Ive given some further thought to 
what might be an appropriate, fair and reasonable level of award, and in so doing Ive 
considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble and upset in similar cases. I 
do think what Monzo offered is fair and reasonable and I think it is enough to put matters 
right.
In relation to the rest of the complaint however, I think Monzo acted fairly. There was 
insufficient evidence in relation to the claim regarding SP and the item had not as a fact 
been returned And in relation to VF, Ms Js account was already closed by the time she 
raised the complaint, and in those circumstances and for the reasons they closed the 
account, I think Monzo were entitled to exercise their discretion not to raise the dispute.
So, although Ms J will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst Monzo have 
indeed made errors, I cant say Monzo has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here 
and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Monzo has already made an offer to pay Ms J £50 to settle this complaint, and I think that is 
fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that Monzo should pay Ms J £50.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman