DRN-4406047
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a number of 
packaged bank accounts and packs. These are as follows;
February 2010 opened in branch as a fee-paying Current Account Plus
July 2010 downgraded in branch to a fee-free Barclays Bank account with Overdraft
June 2011 upgraded in branch to a fee-paying Current Account Plus
December 2011 upgraded online to a fee-paying Additions Active account
March 2012 changed in branch to a fee-paying Current Account Plus
May 2016 migrated to a Barclays Bank account with Tech Pack
Mrs S says that she originally complained about the first Current Account Plus in July 2010 
as she was unaware that fee-free accounts were optional. She says that she was not made 
aware the other accounts were optional and she never wanted any of them.
What happened
Our adjudicators have looked at into this matter and they thought that the Current Account 
Plus taken out in February 2010 was mis-sold and that Barclays should refunded the 
account fees with 8% simple interest. Barclays agreed to this.
Our adjudicator did not think that the other accounts were mis-sold. Mrs S did not agree with 
this and asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ss complaint.
Ive carefully thought about everything Ive seen on this complaint. 
Current Account Plus taken out in February 2010
Both parties agree that this account was mis-sold and as Barclays has agreed to a refund of 
account fees with 8% simple interest per year, which is in line with our general approach, I 
am not going to look into this sale further.
Current Account Plus taken out in June 2011 and March 2021
It is not clear why Mrs S agreed to these accounts, but I have been provided with a signed 
consent form for both of these sales. So, Im satisfied that Mrs S did agree to them. 
Mrs S had previously held the same account in the past and had even complained about it. 
So, I think at this point she would have been fully aware by June 2011 that this account was 
optional, that she could downgrade back to a fee-free account whenever she wanted and 
was aware of what the main benefits and features of this account were. 
I have not been provided with a reason as to why Mrs S thought she had to change to these 
accounts (again). So overall, I can only conclude, albeit on balance, that there was some 
benefit of these accounts that interested Mrs S. 
From what I do know, it is possible that Mrs S wanted the overdraft benefits that these 
accounts came with, as my understanding is that Mrs S was using her overdraft at the time 
of the sales and this account came with £300 interest free overdraft. Also, it came with 
mobile phone insurance which was a benefit Mrs S registered for when she held the Current 
Account Plus the first time in February 2010. So I think it is more likely than not that Mrs S 
agreed to these accounts due to the benefits that they came with.
As these were non advised sales, Barclays did not have to ensure that these accounts were 
suitable for Mrs S given her circumstances at the time of the sale. Barclays did though have 
to give Mrs S enough information about the account to allow her to decide this for herself. 
Im open to the possibility Mrs S wasnt told everything about all the benefits that came with 
these accounts. But I cannot see anything specific that she was not told that I think wouldve 
altered her decision to take out the accounts again. Therefore, I dont think clearer 
information wouldve stopped her taking the accounts out in the first place.
Additions Active account taken out in December 2011
My understanding is that Mrs S took out this account online herself. So I think that she would 
have been aware that it was optional and that she chose to take it out for reasons she 
possibly no longer recalls. Though looking at her bank statements, it seems as if she went 
on Holiday shortly after the account change and as this accounts main difference from the 
Current Account Plus that she held prior to this was Travel insurance, it seems likely that this 
is why she upgraded her account online herself.
Again, as this sale was carried out on a non-advised basis, Barclays did not have to ensure 
that these accounts were suitable for Mrs S given her circumstances at the time of the sale. 
It did though have to give Mrs S enough information about the account to allow Mrs S to 
decide this for herself. 
I think the main benefits would have been highlighted during the application process. Had 
they not been, I doubt Mrs S wouldve upgraded her account herself online to an even more 
expensive packaged account. And, from an archived copy of Barclays website around that 
time, I can see that other accounts (including ones without a monthly fee) were listed and the 
main benefits for the respective accounts were highlighted as well.
Im open to the possibility Mrs S wasnt told everything about all the benefits that came with 
this account. But I cannot see anything specific that she was not told that I think wouldve 
altered her decision to take out the account. Therefore, I dont think clearer information 
wouldve stopped her taking out this account in the first place.
Tech Pack added to the account in May 2016I should start by saying that Barclays didnt sell Mrs S a further packaged account in May 
2016. It chose to withdraw the Current Account Plus at this stage. And Barclays was entitled 
to do this because choosing what products it wants to offer is a legitimate exercise of its 
commercial judgement. So I cant say that Barclays was wrong to have withdrawn the 
Current Account Plus account or that it had to continue providing it to Mrs S.
When Barclays withdrew the Current Account Plus, it moved all of its customers that had this 
account on to a fee-free account with Tech Pack added. This was because the benefits on 
the Tech Pack most closely matched the ones that were on the Current Account Plus. As 
this wasnt a further sale of a packaged account, Barclays didnt need to get Mrs Ss 
agreement before making this change. What Barclays did have to do was to notify Mrs S 
about the upcoming changes to her account and clearly set out what options were available 
to her.
Barclays says that in February 2016, it wrote to Mrs S to say that the Current Account Plus 
was being removed from its range of packaged accounts and that Mrs S would be moved to 
a Barclays Bank Account with a Tech pack added for £9.50 per month. Barclays says it sent 
a follow up letter to Mrs S in May 2016 to confirm that his account had changed. Barclays 
have sent us an audit trail to show that these letters were sent, and Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Barclays had the incorrect address registered for Mrs S. So I dont think 
Barclays did anything wrong in relation to this.
Putting things right
Given the above I require Barclays to:
Refund the Account fees for the February 2010 Current Account Plus sale; and
Add interest on those fees at an annual rate of 8% simple, this should be calculated 
from the date of each fee to the date of settlement. Less any applicable tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding this complaint in part, and require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to do what I have outlined above, to put matters right for Mrs Ss 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman