DRN-2867391
The complaint
Mr S complains about how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) dealt with a 
chargeback request.
What happened
Mr S paid for flights with his AESEL account card for a colleague. The flight seats were due 
to be in premium economy, but Mr S says he received information from the airline that the 
seats would be downgraded to economy. He says he tried to sort matters out with the airline 
but without success and so asked AESEL to raise a chargeback. Mr S says AESEL did 
credit his account with £380 but later said the chargeback was unsuccessful as the airline 
provided evidence that the seats were in premium economy. He says that was incorrect and 
AESEL relied on incomplete information from the airline and later told him to provide 
evidence of the ticket which was unreasonable at that stage. Mr S would like compensation 
and a refund and says he normally charges £500 a day in his professional capacity.
AESEL says the airline provided evidence that the seat was in premium economy and the 
documents Mr S provided didnt support his claim. It says it didnt make a mistake and 
correctly removed the £380 credit from Mr Ss account. AESEL says it asked Mr S for further 
information which wasnt provided and says in any event the flight was used regardless of 
the class of seat.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator didnt 
think AESEL had looked closely at the evidence the airline provided and the evidence 
appeared contradictory. The investigator didnt think it possible to say what the difference in 
cost was between the two tickets and recommended AESEL pay £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr S was caused. But thought the flight had been used.
AESEL hasnt replied to the investigators view and Mr S disagrees with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a similar overall view to that of the investigator.
I make clear to Mr S that a chargeback is not a right, but a voluntary scheme run by the card 
providers with no guarantee of success. We would normally expect a chargeback to be 
raised where there is a reasonable prospect of success.
I can see that Mr S has provided an e-mail from the airline that clearly says part of the 
journey from Shanghai to Hong Kong had been re-booked and the seat is now in economy. I 
can also see that leg of the journey was due to be in premium economy. So, I accept that 
there is clear evidence that at least part of the flight had changed. I dont think its clear if the 
full journey had changed from premium economy to economy. And I would have expected 
Mr Ss colleague in these circumstances to have least kept his boarding passes which would 
have provided evidence of the seat number and class of seat. I dont think it unreasonable to 
have kept that information when there had been an apparent downgrade of seat class.
Im satisfied that AESEL did raise a chargeback and did refund Mr S part of the flight cost. I 
can see that it told Mr S that it may remove that credit if the chargeback was unsuccessful. 
The airline provided evidence to AESEL which it accepted. But I agree with the investigator 
that the evidence received was not complete and clearly was in contradiction to the evidence 
Mr S had provided from the airline. In those circumstances I would have expected AESEL to 
have investigated further and challenged the airline.
I accept that Mr Ss colleague was able to use the flight and so there may not have been any 
chargeback rights. But I would have at least expected AESEL to have provided the airline 
with the evidence Mr S gave it about the e-mail downgrading at least part of the flight legs 
and taken matters further forward. I accept that without evidence of the amount of flights 
downgraded and without evidence of the difference in cost that its impossible to calculate 
what the possible loss was even if a chargeback was successful.
But Im satisfied overall that AESEL didnt deal appropriately with this chargeback and I dont 
accept what it says that the documents Mr S provided (the e-mail from the airline) didnt 
support what he said. I have no doubt Mr S spent some time trying to sort matters out and 
was caused further inconvenience when AESEL told him incorrectly it was re-opening his 
complaint. I appreciate AESEL has paid Mr S £50 compensation but overall, I dont think that 
award goes far enough and that it should be increased by a further £100.
I appreciate Mr S says that compensation should be in line with his professional charging 
rate of £500 a day. But Mr S isnt acting in his professional capacity here and so it would be 
unfair to award compensation on that basis.
Putting things right
I intend to order AESEL pay a further £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order American Express Services 
Europe Limited to pay Mr S a further £100 compensation.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman