DRN-2393347
The complaint
S Ltd, represented by Mr A, complained about the service and amount of compensation 
received from Lloyds Bank plc, after a fraud on the account.
What happened
Mr A, who was abroad, checked the bank account for S Ltd online. On 25 January 2020, he 
saw that £10,000 had been transferred from S Ltds client account to S Ltds current account 
the previous day. There had previously been a similar fraud where funds had been 
transferred in this way. So Mr A moved the money to his personal account, to protect it, and 
phoned Lloyds.
Later the same day, someone rang Lloyds asking to transfer £10,000 from the personal 
account back to the business account. Lloyds call handler was suspicious, because this 
person sounded a different age from Mr A. And the caller knew the business account details 
 but didnt know the personal account details. Lloyds didnt process the request and put a 
block on the account.
On 27 January, four debit card transactions debited S Ltds account, as these had been 
processed before the block on the account. Mr A confirmed that he hadnt authorised these, 
and they were all refunded on 7 February. 
Lloyds investigated, and found that on 20 January a third party had been able to cancel the 
existing debit cards on S Ltds account, order replacements which went to the registered UK 
address, and intercept them. These cards had then been used to make the fraudulent 
payments, and the £10,000 transfer from S Ltds client account to its business account, 
presumably intending to spend the money using the debit card. This was the second time 
there had been a report of an attempted fraud on S Ltds account.
Lloyds told Mr A that it couldnt send the replacement cards to Mr As address abroad. It 
explained that its policy was that it would only send cards to the registered business 
address, or, in exceptional circumstances where the address wasnt considered safe, to a 
branch. S Ltds registered address had twice been used fraudulently. So the replacement 
cards were sent to a branch.
Mr A complained. He wanted the replacement cards sent to his address abroad, but that 
wasnt possible. Mr A came to the UK and told Lloyds he wanted his long-haul air fare 
refunded, and other costs.
Lloyds didnt uphold S Ltds complaint that Mr A had been the victim of fraudulent activity. 
And it refused to refund his airfare, as it said it had been his decision to come to the UK. But 
it accepted hed received poor customer service, and paid Mr A, to his personal account:
- £100 for distress and inconvenience;
- £180 for a long phone call to Lloyds fraud team; and 
- £4.81 refund of daily charges on his personal account, while his business account 
was blocked from 24 January to 7 February.
Mr A, for S Ltd, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said Lloyds policy not to 
send cards and PINs abroad had left him without any other options but to come to the UK, 
arriving on 6 February. He said hed been left without active bank cards between 25 January 
and 7 February, and the replacement PINs had taken longer. Mr A also said that after the 
first fraud, hed told Lloyds not to send post to S Ltds registered address.
Mr A, for S Ltd, told us he wanted to get my full rights. He wanted:
- a refund for his long-haul return airfare;
- £2,500 for the cost of time he took off work abroad;
- £800 for accommodation while he was in the UK
- £150 for transport costs during his stay in the UK;
- further compensation for phone calls, time, and stress.
The investigator didnt uphold S Ltds complaint. He said that Lloyds hadnt told Mr A he had 
to travel to the UK, or that hed be reimbursed if he did. And he thought that if Mr A had had 
a further phone conversation with Lloyds, an agreement could have been reached without 
Mr A having to travel to the UK.
Mr A, for S Ltd, wasnt satisfied. He sent detailed comments on the investigators view 
document. The key points were that the journey to the UK wasnt just to collect the bank 
cards but to solve the problem and get his money back into the account. And as well as the 
poor service, Lloyds had twice given an unknown person access to S Ltds account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In S Ltds complaint form to this service, Mr A said that he wanted to get my full rights. 
Looking at what S Ltds rights were, the relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking 
place on in January 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the 
bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if he 
did authorise them. Here, Lloyds prevented the fraudster moving money back from the 
personal account to the current account, because it was suspicious of the caller. And it 
refunded S Ltd for the disputed payments which went through before the block on the 
account. So I find that Lloyds fulfilled the requirements of the Payment Services Regulations 
and there was no financial loss to S Ltd from the disputed transactions themselves.
As Ive set out above, Mr A also believes he has a right to receive:
- a refund for his long-haul return airfare;
- £2,500 for the cost of time he took off work abroad;
- £800 for accommodation while he was in the UK
- £150 for transport costs during his stay in the UK;
- further compensation for phone calls, time, and stress.
There is nothing in the Payment Services Regulations which sets out any right to these 
expenses. It was Mr As decision to travel to the UK, and there is no record that Lloyds 
required him to do so. He said he did so not just to collect the bank cards, but to solve the 
problem and get my money back into the account and order new cards and a new PIN.  Ive 
seen no evidence that Lloyds would have refused to refund the fraudulent transactions 
following phone calls, if Mr A hadnt chosen to travel to the UK. 
Mr A is unhappy with Lloyds policy that it wouldnt send S Ltds cards to Mr As address 
abroad, but only to the registered address or, in exceptional circumstances where this 
appeared unsafe, to a branch. Its the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which considers the policies of financial organisations, not this service. But I have considered 
whether it was reasonable for Lloyds to refuse to send S Ltds cards to Mr A abroad. I 
consider it was a sensible security precaution. The registered address should normally be 
the one which is least likely to be vulnerable to fraudsters. And if Mr A had been aware of 
any security issues with the registered company address after the first attempted fraud, it 
was open to him to change that registered address, or take other security issues to protect 
the address. 
And where there had been two reported frauds against S Ltds accounts, I consider it was 
even more important that Lloyds didnt send cards to other addresses provided by phone, 
especially abroad. 
Technically, companies cant suffer stress, so it wouldnt in any case have been possible for 
this service to award compensation for distress to S Ltd, which is the account holder. And 
ultimately, any stress and inconvenience caused to Mr A as S Ltds representative was 
caused by the alleged fraudster, not by Lloyds. 
Lloyds prevented the attempt to move £10,000 back from the personal account to business 
account, and refunded the fraudulent smaller transactions. It took necessary security 
precautions to try to prevent further problems. So I do not uphold S Ltds complaint for 
further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman