DRN-3887782
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about her property insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc in relation to a 
claim made when a leak from a dishwasher was found at her home. AXA used various 
contractors during the claim, it is responsible for their actions.
What happened
Mrs B noted damage in her kitchen to floor tiling in May 2021 and a leak from the 
dishwasher was suspected, found and repaired. She made a claim to AXA and its assessor 
wondered if there was more than one leak as the kitchen floor was very wet. It was decided 
that further trace and access work would be undertaken, that happened in July. It was 
October 2021 before the contractors looked to start arranging the strip-out and drying works 
 but no start date was arranged until after Mrs B chased AXA in January 2022.
Work to strip and dry the property began in February 2022, with an expected completion 
date for all works being April 2022. But it was August before the family moved home. 
Between February and August 2022 the family had been living in alternative accommodation 
 but this was only ever organised for a few weeks at a time and the family moved location 
10 times in that period. 
Mrs B had complained to AXA about the progress of the claim, as well as the living 
arrangements and in July and September 2022 AXA issued final response letters responding 
to her concerns. AXA accepted it had failed Mrs B and her family in its handling of things. It 
said it would pay a total of £1,475 compensation. It said it would look into paying Mrs B for 
extra fuel used whilst living away from home, and into snagging concerns raised when the 
family had moved home (with a surveyor attending shortly after the September final 
response was issued). Mrs B remained unhappy, she felt compensation of £20,000 was in 
order and she complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator felt AXA hadnt handled things well at all. She accepted that this had 
caused Mrs B a lot of upset over a prolonged period. She felt AXA should pay a further 
£1,000 compensation. 
Mrs B was disappointed  but recognised that our Investigator felt this was a fair sum. AXA 
said it didnt think such an increased amount was fair and reasonable. But said it would offer 
a further £500. Mrs B was further disappointed by AXA seeking to reduce the recommended 
compensation amount. She wasnt minded to agree to that sum. The complaint was passed 
to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from AXAs file that it accepts it got this claim wrong  that it was one where a loss 
adjuster should have been appointed at an early stage to ensure it was managed and 
progressed properly. I think if that simple step had been done then the works would have 
been progressed much quicker, the underlying issues that kept cropping up would have 
been uncovered earlier and the disruption to the family would have been less, as a better 
plan and approach to their living arrangements could have been organised to begin with.
For example, at the start of the claim the kitchen floor was found to be soaked. The kitchen 
is not large. But at no time in the early part of the claim did any of the experts involved in the 
reinstatement programme think to check the rooms in close proximity to that soaked floor. 
So the strip-out and drying programme focused only on the kitchen and it was only after that 
area had been declared dry that, in March 2022, concerns were raised about laminate 
flooring in the hall. And it was also only then that it was decided the kitchen base units would 
need replacing. This then led to further stripping and drying being undertaken in May 2022, a 
year after the claim had initially been raised, and a month after the initial completion date of 
April 2022. It also meant that a new kitchen had to be ordered, with a lead time for that 
accommodated. I highlight these as just a couple of simple examples which evidence how 
poor management and a lack of oversight impacted the progress of the claim.  Appointment 
of a loss adjuster, I think, would have meant these issues would have been identified earlier 
and managed better. 
Further, I think AXA acknowledges that the family had some very specific needs. 
I appreciate that it isnt always possible to gauge exactly how long work will take. However, 
I think its clear that even whilst the living arrangements were being made, the period 
estimated for the family to be without the kitchen  until 25 February 2022  was accepted 
as being likely optimistic. But initially that is when accommodation was arranged until and it 
was a holiday let type property. Within the first few weeks of that booking though that 
accommodation was extended until 18 March 2022. It was within about a week of that first 
extension that the kitchen and flooring issues were identified, I think the type and period of 
accommodation should have been reviewed at that point and a short-term let agreed for the 
family to move to. I think a competent loss adjuster would have noted that need and acted to 
implement that. Instead the family encountered a period of months of extensions and moving 
accommodation  where each move, because this was holiday type accommodation, made 
the family effectively homeless each day after check-out until check-in later that day. 
I think that would have been difficult for anyone to deal with, and more so for Mrs B with the 
specific needs of her family, which AXA knew about. Its something that better management 
of the claim would have avoided. 
I can see from AXAs file that after February 2022, it noted that the claim was on-going, that 
this was unacceptable and that the situation with the accommodation was also 
unreasonable. I can also see that it tried at times to get things back under control and to take 
steps to push for the work to be done. I note it considered appointing a loss adjuster but felt 
that, at that stage, would just cause more delays. I can understand its view in that respect. 
I do think AXA tried to resolve this and I think the level of compensation proffered in its final 
response letters indicated that it accepted it had made mistakes here which caused 
significant upset to Mrs B. But I am satisfied that despite these good intentions, the proffered 
amount was not fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. 
I realise that Mrs B has had some legal advice which suggests that, in court, she might get in 
excess of £20,000 compensation. But as our Investigator explained, that is not in line with 
the awards made by this service. 
Total compensation of £2,475 recognises the sustained distress and severe impact on daily 
life that AXAs failings had, over a prolonged period of more than a year. Where in this case 
the accommodation issues were on-going over a roughly six-month period but the claim itself 
had gone on for more than a year, with delays occurring throughout. In explaining that Id 
add that Ive only considered the delay and accommodation issues up until the final 
response of 13 September 2022. I havent looked at the snagging/poor work issues or the state the property was in, as a result of those, when the family returned home at the end of 
August 2022. For the complaints about delays and accommodation, as answered by AXA in 
its final responses of 22 July 2022 and 13 September 2022, Im satisfied that total 
compensation of £2,475 is fairly and reasonably due. 
  
Putting things right
I require AXA to pay Mrs B a further £1,000. Making my total compensation award £2,475 
where £1,475 has already been paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting thing right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman