DRN-4090220
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt settled a cancellation claim 
they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mrs S and Mr S hold travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account. In March 
2022, they booked a trip abroad through a booking company. They were due to travel in 
October 2022.
However, due to flooding in the area Mrs S and Mr S were due to travel to, their trip was 
cancelled. So they made a claim on their travel insurance policy for their irrecoverable costs 
 which included their accommodation costs and car hire costs. They provided Aviva with 
evidence in support of their claim.
Aviva investigated Mrs S and Mr S claim. It noted that Mrs S had provided evidence of 
payments to third parties, rather than to the booking company or car hire company. It 
appointed an agent in the country Mrs S and Mr S were due to travel to to look into their 
claim. The agent spoke with the car hire company, which stated that it hadnt produced the 
car hire invoice and that Mrs S and Mr S hadnt been its customers. And while the booking 
company told Avivas agent that the booking was legitimate, it wouldnt provide the agent 
with any evidence of Mrs S and Mr S payment. The booking company had also told Avivas 
agent that the employee who had arranged the booking was a close relative of Mrs S.
Based on the agents findings, Aviva concluded that Mrs S and Mr S hadnt provided enough 
evidence to show they had a valid claim on their policy.
Mrs S and Mr S were unhappy with Avivas position and they complained. They felt Avivas 
agent had behaved inappropriately and Mrs S also denied that the booking companys 
employee was related to her. She said she didnt know the employee at the booking 
company. Aviva maintained its stance but invited Mrs S and Mr S to provide further evidence 
if they wished to.
Remaining unhappy with Avivas stance, Mrs S and Mr S asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs S and Mr S complaint should be upheld. She felt it had 
been fair for Aviva to want to be satisfied that Mrs S and Mr S had suffered an irrecoverable 
financial loss in line with the policy terms. And based on the available evidence and the 
agents findings, she didnt think it had been unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that there 
wasnt enough evidence to show Mrs S and Mr S had made payments to the car hire 
company or the booking company.
Mrs S and Mr S disagreed. They felt they had provided every proof Aviva had asked for. 
They said theyd contacted the booking agent, to reclarify what had happened when Avivas 
agent had visited the booking company. The booking company disputed the agents version 
of events. They said the booking company was prepared to provide a signed statement. 
They added that they were suffering with daily expenses because of the loss theyd incurred. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs S and Mr S, I dont think Aviva has 
treated them unfairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mrs S and Mr S policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether I 
think Aviva treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as they form the basis of the contract 
between Mrs S and Mr S and Aviva. Mrs S and Mr S made a cancellation claim, so I think it 
was appropriate for Aviva to consider the claim in line with the cancellation section of the 
policy. This says that Aviva will cover:
Unrecoverable costs that each insured person has paid or legally has to pay for their own 
unused travel and accommodation, as well as unused pre-paid costs associated with the 
trip.
In my view, Avivas policy terms make it clear that it will only cover irrecoverable costs which 
a policyholder has paid for  and for which theyve suffered a financial loss. So I think it was 
fair and reasonable for Aviva to ask for evidence that Mrs S and Mr S had paid the costs 
theyd claimed for.
It's a general principle of insurance that its a policyholders responsibility to provide enough 
evidence to show that they have a valid claim on their policy and that theyve incurred the 
loss(es) theyve claimed for. In some cases, an insurer may appoint agents to investigate 
and validate claims.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence Mrs S and Mr S provided which they say shows their 
payments to the car hire company and booking company. However, while I dont dispute that 
Mrs S and Mr S have provided evidence of payments, these dont appear to have been 
made to either the car hire or booking companies. Instead, they appear to have been made 
to individuals. Mrs S and Mr S say that theyd paid someone to make payments to the 
relevant companies on their behalf. Given the evidence Mrs S and Mr S provided didnt show 
direct payments to either the car hire company or booking company, I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to want some further information to show that payments had been 
made to the relevant companies for the bookings Mrs S and Mr S had claimed for.
And I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to appoint a local agent to look into Mrs S 
and Mr S claims. Ive seen a copy of the agents findings, as well as Mrs S and Mr S 
evidence. It seems that the car hire company told the agent that Mrs S and Mr S werent its 
customer and that it hadnt issued the car hire invoice. The car hire company confirmed this 
in writing.On the other hand, I appreciate the booking company did tell Avivas agent that the booking 
was legitimate and Ive thought about this carefully. But I need to bear in mind that the 
booking company wasnt prepared to provide Avivas agent with proof of Mrs S and Mr S 
booking payment. And it appears from the agents findings that the booking companys 
employee told the agent that they were a close relative of Mrs S, even though I understand 
Mrs S disputes this. 
Ive taken the totality of the evidence together, including Mrs S and Mr S testimony. But I 
dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mrs S and Mr S hadnt 
provided enough information to show theyd paid the costs theyd claimed for, or that they 
hadnt demonstrated they had a valid claim on the policy. 
Mrs S and Mr S indicated that they wished to provide a statement from the booking 
company, which countered the agents report. This information hasnt been provided to us. 
But it remains open to Mrs S and Mr S to obtain such a statement and to send it to Aviva for 
its consideration. If Mrs S and Mr S are unhappy with Avivas review of any new evidence 
they may provide, they may be able to make a new complaint about that issue alone.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mrs S and Mr S position, I dont think I could fairly direct 
Aviva to settle their claim. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman