DRN-2111302
The complaint
Ms A says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Ms A took out a PPI policy at the same time as she applied for a mortgage in 2001. The sale 
took place in one of the banks branches. The policy gave her accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. She paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms A disagreed so 
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make clear the PPI was optional, and Ms A had to agree to take it out. Ms A 
says she wasnt aware she had PPI, there was no discussion about it. I cant know what was 
said in the meeting, there are no meeting notes or records available, so Ive thought about 
Ms As comments carefully and looked at the paperwork from the sale.
On Ms As mortgage application she signed a separate section to confirm she wanted to 
apply for PPI. And there was no wording that I think could reasonably have led her to believe 
it was mandatory. She then signed a separate application form for the PPI, answering a 
number of eligibility questions. And on this form the cost of the PPI was set out separately.
 
So overall, I think Halifax made it clear the PPI was optional and Ms A agreed to take it out. I 
can understand she might not remember this given how long ago the sale was.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms A, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. I 
know she feels strongly that it wasnt suitable as it offered her the wrong benefit. But based 
on what I know of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was suitable. Ms A says she 
was entitled to six months' full pay and six months half pay if she was sick and she would 
have had to tell the insurer this if she tried to claim. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition 
to her work benefits and for much longer - up to 24 months for each successful claim. It also 
offered up to 24 months redundancy cover so would have allowed her to protect any lump 
sum redundancy payment, giving increased financial stability at a difficult time whilst not 
working.
Ms A also sent in evidence of a regular savings plan she had, shares she held in a unit trust 
and money she was saving for her sons future. But the PPI would have allowed her to use 
these to either cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for her 
future needs. And they were not of such a value that I can fairly conclude she had no need 
for this PPI that protected her for up to 24 months. 
Ms A was borrowing a large sum over a long period, secured on her home. So the effects of 
not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for her. Overall, I think the PPI 
would have been useful for Ms A if she was sick, had an accident or lost her job.
Ms A says she was told nothing about the PPI. I accept its possible Halifax didnt give Ms A 
all the information she needed before deciding to buy PPI. The cost was made clear on PPI 
application form and the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. But I dont 
know that the bank pointed out the main things the PPI didnt cover. However, it seems Ms A 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI wouldve changed her mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Ms A has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman