DRN-4229280
The complaint
Mr C has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to turn down his claim under 
his Agricultural Vehicle Insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C has said there was a fire in the engine bay of a combine harvester insured under his 
policy while he was in the process of using it. He repaired it and made a claim under his 
policy for the cost of doing so. AXA sent an engineer to inspect the combine harvester. He 
provided a report in which he concluded the damage was due to wear and tear and not fire.
Mr C asked another engineer to inspect the combine harvester. He said the damage was 
caused by a fire. Mr C provided this report to AXA and complained about their decision to 
turn down his claim. AXA said their decision to refuse Mr Cs claim was correct. So Mr C 
asked us to consider his complaint. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint and said it should be upheld. He was 
more persuaded by Mr Cs testimony and the report provided by the engineer hed 
appointed. The investigator said AXA should settle Mr Cs claim in accordance with the 
terms of his policy and pay interest at 8% per annum on the amount due to Mr C. He also 
said AXA should pay Mr C £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
AXA does not agree with the investigators view and have asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. They believe the evidence supports their view that the damage to Mr Cs combine 
harvester was caused by wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it for largely the same reasons as our investigator. 
Mr Cs policy covers damage to his combine harvester, but specifically excludes damage 
caused by wear and tear, mechanical or electrical breakdowns, failures or breakages. 
Im persuaded by Mr Cs testimony that there were flames coming out of the engine 
compartment of his combine harvester and he had to use a fire extinguisher to put the fire 
out. I also accept his point that AXAs engineer did not look into the engine compartment of 
the combine harvester from above, so couldnt properly assess what had caused the 
damage to it. 
I prefer the explanation for the damage provided by the engineer appointed by Mr C because 
he appears to have carried out a more thorough inspection and he has provided a plausible 
explanation for how the fire occurred and how it damaged the combine harvester. Hes 
suggested the fire started in the engine bay and damaged the main wiring loom and dropped 
down onto the grease pipes below. Hes also pointed out theres damage next to the support 
hub where the grease pipes melted, which I can see in the photographs provided. This 
makes sense to me and, whilst B has said fire doesnt drop down, I think what the engineer 
means is that debris from the fire dropped down and this caused the fire to spread and the 
grease pipes to melt. 
So, overall, while I appreciate AXAs engineer said the wiring harness overheated and 
caused damage to the grease pipes and there is no evidence of fire damage, I dont agree. I 
think there is evidence of fire damage based on the photographs provided, the comments of 
the engineer Mr C appointed and Mr Cs own testimony. This means that  in my opinion - 
the damage Mr C has claimed for is covered by his policy. 
I also agree with our investigator that AXAs incorrect decision to turn down Mr Cs claim 
caused him distress and inconvenience. And I think £100 in compensation for this is fair and 
reasonable. Mr C should also receive 8% interest from the date AXA turned down his claim 
to reflect the fact that he has been deprived of funds he should have had since this time. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Cs 
complaint is for AXA to pay his claim in accordance with the terms of his policy. AXA must 
also add interest at 8% per annum simple on to the payment due to Mr C from the date they 
turned down Mr Cs claim to the date of actual payment. And they must pay Mr C £100 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and order AXA Insurance UK Plc to do 
what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman