DRN-3557863
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his bank account and loaded fraud 
markers against his name.
What happened
Mr D held an account with Barclays. In May 2021, Mr D received a letter from Barclays 
informing him that itd frozen his account. It told Mr D that it needed to review some 
payments into the account and asked him to get in touch.
Mr D contacted Barclays but claimed no knowledge of the payments entering the account. 
Barclays decided to withdraw Mr Ds banking facilities with immediate effect and load his 
information to fraud databases.
Mr D was unhappy with Barclays decision, so he made a complaint. Barclays contacted 
Mr D to obtain more information on what occurred at the time of the transactions entering his 
account. Mr D maintained that he had no knowledge of the payments into his account and 
provided an explanation regarding some of the outbound payments. He said that some of 
these were payments to buy products that he sells and others, to a cryptocurrency platform, 
he wasnt aware of. Mr D said that hed not shared his account details or security information 
with any third-party.
Barclays didnt overturn its original decision based on the information Mr D provided. Mr D, 
being unhappy with this response, referred his complaint to our service.
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties but concluded that 
Barclays hadnt made an error. Broadly, the Investigator said that there was no evidence to 
support Mr Ds testimony. They also commented on Mr D providing conflicting testimony and 
couldnt substantiate a point of compromise for his account.
The Investigator also felt that the account closure was fair in the circumstances. They 
pointed out that the terms and conditions of the account had been breached and Barclays 
had the right to close the account as it did in line with those terms.
Mr D disagreed with the Investigators assessment. He maintained that he was of good 
character and had not committed any fraud on his account. He also described the 
detrimental impact the fraud marker was having on his day-to-day life. 
As Mr D disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the matter has now been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fraud marker loading
In order to decide whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into consideration the relevant 
guidance set out by the fraud marker database controller: Cifas. In its Handbook, Cifas 
provides its members with expectations on the required burden of proof needed to load 
markers. This includes:
It has reasonable grounds to suspect that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted.
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the Police.
My interpretation of these rules is that Cifas requires a high bar to be met in order to load 
markers to its database. That bar isnt so high that the person must be proven beyond all 
reasonable doubt to have been involved in the fraud or financial crime, but it needs to be 
more than mere suspicion.
Mr Ds testimony throughout has generally been that he had no awareness of the funds 
entering his account. However, the evidence provided by both parties suggests that this isnt 
likely. Ill explain why.
While I acknowledge that there is a remote possibility that a third-party paid Mr Ds account 
by accidentby inputting the incorrect account informationthat doesnt explain some of 
the other activity present on Mr Ds account.
Mr D has told our service that he hadnt provided any of his account information to a third-
party: that includes his security information. Hes also told us that he has never had any 
dealings or relationship with the cryptocurrency platform where several of the fraudulent 
payments were forwarded to. But the evidence doesnt support this either.
On 19 April and 5 May 2021, a £2 bill payment was made to the same cryptocurrency 
platform that was paid after the fraudulent funds were paid into Mr Ds account. The 
payments also bear the same reference details. There is no evidence that Mr D challenged 
or disputed these payments prior to the fraudulent activity despite using his account regularly 
between. And this would suggest he was likely aware of the payments and had likely 
authorised them. This is supported by the fact that Mr D admitted to making one of the 
payments to the cryptocurrency platform prior to the fraudulent payments when questioned 
by Barclays. However, I realise Mr D has since said that he had no knowledge of this 
platform.
Furthermore, there is no likely explanation as to how an unknown third-party accessed 
Mr Ds account without his authority. Mr D says hes never provided his account or security 
information to anyone. Considering the amount of information that is required to logon to an 
online banking account, I cant see how someone could have guessed this information. 
Barclays has also told our service that a new device logged onto Mr Ds account prior to the 
fraudulent activity. And in order for the new device to be added to the account, a text 
message was sent to Mr Ds registered telephone number to authorise its use. As the correct 
code was entered to allow the device access, this could only mean that either Mr D 
registered the device himself, or, he passed this information onto a third-party.
In either scenario, I think there is persuasive information to support that Mr D likely knew 
about the activity on his account. And so it follows that the burden of proof required to load 
the fraud markers has been met in the circumstances.
Account closureBusinesses do have the right to end their relationship with a customer. Broadly speaking, it 
must be done so in line with the accounts terms and conditions and in compliance with the 
law. I can also consider if the account closure was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In section 5 of Barclays terms of the account, it sets out circumstances in which it may end 
an agreement with a customer immediately or with less notice. These include, but are not 
limited to, where the bank has reasonable grounds to believe the customer has: 
Seriously or persistently broken any terms of the agreement.
Committed (or attempted) fraud against Barclays or someone else.
Used their account illegally or for criminal activity, including receiving proceeds of 
crime into their account  or if they let someone else do this.
Its clear from the evidence that Mr Ds account did receive funds that originated from crime. 
And this in turn presented a substantial risk to the bank. It also had no evidence to 
reasonably suspect a third-party had compromised Mr Ds account. 
I therefore find that in line with the terms and conditions of the account, and considering 
what I deem to be fair and reasonable, the immediate closure in these circumstances was 
fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman