DRN-3282722
The complaint
Mr B complains that MBNA Limited wont reimburse him for his losses after he used his 
credit cards to transfer money to an investment business that he says turned out to be a
scam.
What happened
Around March 2018, Mr B received a call from a company which Ill refer to as B that were 
offering binary options and forex products. He was persuaded to trade and made several 
payments totalling over £15,000 (excluding fees), using three credit cards.
Relevant to this complaint are five payments totalling over £8,000 which Mr B made using 
two of his MBNA credit cards. These payments were not made to B; the payments were 
made to a merchant who Ill refer to as Z. Mr B contacted MBNA in May 2018. He explained 
hed authorised the payments to Z but had been tricked into doing so by B. He said B were 
misrepresenting its services and no real trading account ever existed. He asked MBNA to 
reimburse him because, he believed, B was operating a scam.
MBNA declined Mr Bs claim. Ultimately it said as hed authorised the payments to Z, he is 
liable, and that there were no chargeback options available to him under the respective card 
scheme rules. It also didnt accept liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
as it didnt think transfers or deposits to trading accounts could benefit from this protection.
Additionally, it considered the debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship which section 75 
relies upon, broken.
Unhappy with MBNAs response Mr B referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators considered it. She didnt think that MBNA should reimburse Mr Bs losses. Mr B
didnt agree and asked that an Ombudsman review his complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 June 2022 explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. I said:  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require MBNA to refund the 
payments Mr B made to Z. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of the financial strain Mr Bs been under. I appreciate the sum lost is 
significant and I can see from what hes said, the impact of losing this money has been far 
reaching, affecting many aspects of his personal life. I do understand why Mr B wants to do 
all he can to try and recover the money hes lost. So, I know my intended decision will come 
as a great disappointment to him. But having thought very carefully about MBNAs actions, I 
dont think it needs to do anything more here.
I say this because, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (in force at the time) and 
in accordance with general account terms and conditions, credit card providers  such as 
MBNA  should execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. And the 
starting position is that liability for authorised payments rests with the payer even where they 
have been tricked into making these, for example as part of an investment scam.
There is no dispute here that Mr B authorised the payments. So for me to uphold this 
complaint and direct MBNA to pay Mr Bs losses Id need to be persuaded that MBNAs 
actions at the time of processing the payments reasonably resulted in his loss or it has 
treated him unfairly when assisting with the recovery of those funds. Im afraid simply being 
the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle Mr B to a refund.
In his submissions Mr B has referenced BSI: PAS 17271: 2017 Protecting customers from 
financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of practice and has referred to 
the High Court case of Philipp v Barclays. He accepts MBNA did contact him on one 
occasion. But this was simply to confirm if hed authorised the payment to Z. Whilst he 
understands that not all authorised transactions would be deeply scrutinised, only those in 
alarmingly unusual circumstances  he considers the activity here to meet that threshold. I 
agree with Mr B, in so much as, MBNA does have a duty to protect customers against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud. So Ive thought about whether it should have reasonably 
done anything more than it did to prevent Mr Bs loss at the time the payments were 
processed.
The disputed payments were made on two different MBNA credit cards. For ease Ive set out 
on which card each transaction took place, when and for what amount. All the payments 
were made to the same merchant, Z.
Card One  ending 5368 (Visa)
Date Amount
19 March 2018 £2,205.25 (plus non sterling fee of £65.05)
20 March 2018 £440.03 (plus non sterling fee of £12.98)
20 March 2018 £1,320.09 (plus non sterling fee of £38.94)
Card Two  ending 5929 (Mastercard)
Date Amount
20 March 2018 £879.88 (plus non sterling fee of £25.95)
20 March 2018 £3,519.52 (plus non sterling fee of £103.82)
Ive thought about whether the payments ought to have triggered MBNAs alert systems 
such that it ought to have questioned whether Mr B was the victim of a scam and intervened. 
In doing so, Ive considered what the general spending on Mr Bs credit cards has been. I 
can see Mr B has previously made, and received, payments of similar value to another 
investment firm trading in binary options. So, Im not persuaded the nature of the 
transactions themselves  the amounts, who to, how they were made etc would necessarily 
indicate a risk of fraud or financial harm, given the previous operation. So Im not persuaded 
the payments were unusual or uncharacteristic such that they ought to have triggered such 
an alert.That said, I am aware, as mentioned above that a payment to Z (which was declined) did 
trigger MBNAs systems and it spoke to Mr B. This appears to have happened on 
20 March 2018, and after all the above transactions had already been made. Mr B says all 
MBNA did was verify if hed authorised a payment to Z. He says it failed to: challenge the 
authenticity of the transaction; explain the risks; and provide relevant scam warnings. Ive 
listened to the call between MBNA and Mr B and I think the checks carried out at the time 
were proportionate to the risk. And even if Im wrong about this and accept what Mr B says 
(which to be clear I dont) that MBNA ought to have intervened sooner than it did and/or 
asked more questions about the transactions; explained the risk; and given scam warnings. I 
dont think this wouldve made a difference in these circumstances. I say this because Im 
not persuaded any research Mr B may have carried out on Z or B would have given him any 
cause for concern. As I cant find any reliable evidence from the material time of the 
payments that either Z or B were thought to be operating a scam such that Mr B might have 
discovered this and then not made subsequent payments.
I note Mr B believes MBNA are required to establish a merchants legitimacy through Know 
Your Customer (KYC) checks. But from what I understand the merchant (here Z) is not a 
customer of MBNA and is simply utilising Mastercard and Visas payment processing 
network. What I think Mr B intends and that he has touched upon in his response to the 
Investigators assessment of his complaint is that MBNA ought to have systems, 
mechanisms and measures in place to identify fraudulent merchants. However, I havent 
seen any credible adverse information or official published warnings about Z. Or any 
evidence that MBNA had internal information in relation to Z at the time of the scam that it 
ought to have acted on. And whilst MBNA do have the ability to stop/block payments where 
they have grounds for suspecting fraud or the misappropriation of funds, Im not persuaded, 
in the absence of any credible evidence about Z operating fraudulently at the material time, it 
ought to have done so here. I also dont think it couldve reasonably known from the account 
activity that Mr B was dealing with B.
Chargeback
I think it would be helpful for me to explain the following:
-Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers  not MBNA.
-MBNA is bound by the card scheme providers rules which in this case is Visa for 
card one and Mastercard for card two.
-There is no right to a chargeback. It is for MBNA, to decide if it has a basis upon 
which it can raise a chargeback claim on behalf of the cardholder (here Mr B). It does 
so by taking into consideration the scheme providers rules and its evidential 
requirements to decide if the claim has a reasonable prospect of success.
-A claim raised isnt guaranteed to result in a refund.
Here, MBNA didnt raise chargeback claims, as it didnt think it had a basis upon which it 
could do so under Mastercard and Visas scheme rules. So what I need to decide is whether 
I think MBNA has acted fairly and reasonably in reaching that decision.
The Mastercard chargeback scheme significantly limits any options for investment or 
gambling transaction claims. I appreciate Mr B says there was no genuine trading account; 
trading services were never provided; the funds were transferred by means of coercion and 
under false pretences; and the investment opportunity was fictitious from the start. I note in 
his submissions he also provides evidence in the form of declarations of deposits given to 
him by B and he believes this should qualify the disputed payments to Z for successful 
chargeback claims. But, ultimately the nature of Mr Bs claim is that hes been scammed. 
And this isnt something that the Mastercard chargeback scheme provides a dispute resolution process for. So, based on this I dont think it was unreasonable for MBNA to 
conclude Mr Bs claims had no reasonable prospect of success under Mastercards scheme. 
Similarly, Visas chargeback scheme too does not investigate allegations of fraud or provide 
a dispute resolution process for allegations of a scam. Although, unlike Mastercard it does
provide for some chargeback rights in relation to investment disputes. But these are very 
narrow and require specific evidence to succeed. Under Visas scheme a claim for 
misrepresentation can be raised where the merchant refuses to allow the cardholder to 
withdraw available balances. But Visa requires the following evidence  a copy of the 
cardholders investment account showing the date, the withdrawal amount, and the available 
balance at the time the withdrawal request was made. As the specific evidence required 
under Visas scheme rules hadnt been provided by Mr B. I dont think MBNAs conclusions 
that the claims stood no reasonable prospect of success was unreasonable. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that MBNA acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in connection with any rights or responsibilities under Mastercard and Visas 
chargeback schemes, so I cannot uphold this complaint on that ground. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
Section 75 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for a breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation against a creditor as they would have against the supplier of goods or 
services. For a section 75 claim to apply there are a number of criteria that need to be met
one of which is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement between the parties.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Bs credit card statements which show five payments totalling over 
£8,000. Mr B was therefore responsible for repaying the amount owed to his credit card 
provider and so he is the debtor. As two of Mr Bs MBNA credit cards were used to make 
these payments, MBNA was the creditor. Mr Bs claim is that B misrepresented itself and it 
didnt provide him with the services it had agreed to. So for the purposes of the DCS 
agreement B is the supplier. However, the payments Mr B disputes werent made to B  
they were made to Z.
So, for Mr Bs claim to be covered under the joint liability provision of section 75 I would 
need to see evidence that would satisfy me that Z were a party to the contract between Mr B 
and B as there is no right under section 75 to pursue a like claim against a third party who 
was not privy to the DCS relationship.
Mr B says he has conducted some research into Z. He says the information available is
limited. Based on this he is satisfied Z is also a scam company and part of B, and that they 
are one entity. He therefore argues the DCS chain is not broken and in the absence of 
evidence to show that B and Z are separate entities he doesnt agree that MBNA can rely on 
 to decline his claim  the lack of a DCS relationship. 
I think what Mr B is referring to here is section 187 of the Consumer Credit Act, which says 
section 75 can also apply if the contract is financed under pre-existing arrangements
between the creditor and an associate of the supplier. Section 184 sets out the
circumstances in which a company is an associate of another company; broadly speaking,
that will be the case if the same person or people control each company. Ive reviewed all
the information available and carried out my own research, but Ive been unable to find
evidence that satisfies me that B and Z were linked as associates as required under
section 187. And I dont agree with Mr B that in these circumstances a lack of evidence is
grounds for a valid section 75 claim.As Ive not seen the required evidence that persuades me that the parties involved in this
situation had the necessary relationships with each other to give Mr B the protection of
section 75. It follows that I cant say MBNA ought to have done more under section 75 or has
treated Mr B unfairly by declining his claim
MBNA accepted my provisional decision and responded confirming it had nothing further to 
add, but Mr B didnt. In summary he said: 
- He still believes MBNA should bear responsibility for his loss. 
- He refers to DISP 3.6.4R and says his analysis leads him to believe that the 
provisional decision is impartial and unfair, as it deviates from the law by invoking 
fair and reasonable circumstances. He thinks as the only other authority aside from 
the courts considering such cases, we should be trying to protect consumers. 
- He is of the opinion that my provisional decision is not consistent with other decisions 
issued by our service. 
- He argues that the outcome is not objective as there has been no recognition of 
dispositional factors and vulnerability to fraud. Nor has sufficient consideration been 
given to the fundamental importance of implementation of a multi-layered approach 
to fraud prevention.   
- He thinks to say that MBNA exercised any and all of its duties is an irresponsible 
conclusion to reach, and he doesnt agree with the reasoning I gave for why I didnt 
think the payments ought to have triggered an alert. He maintains MBNA ought to 
have intervened under BSI: PAS 17271: 2017 Protecting customers from financial 
harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of practice (the BSI). He 
specifically highlights two examples of suspicious activity listed in the BSI which he 
says are relevant to his complaint.  
- He also doesnt agree with the view that if he has authorised the transactions, he is 
fully liable. He considers this to be reductive and feels the breach of MBNAs duty of 
care towards him has been marginalised. He again refers to the High Court case of 
Philipp V Barclays and continues to argue that the circumstances here were 
alarmingly unusual and deserving of intervention and scrutiny.
- He argues in providing its services to him, MBNA is required by law to exercise the 
care and skill of a diligent, prudent banker. In this case, he says it should mean that 
MBNA should not have turned a blind eye to known facts pointing to a real 
possibility that he was being scammed. He thinks MBNA ought to have had special 
knowledge of what was occurring or been alerted to a real possibility of fraud taking 
place and must have known or reasonably ought to have known he was dealing with 
a scammer. He believes MBNA have failed to: intervene; question the transactions; 
and provide scam warnings. He says had MBNA done so, it likely wouldve prevented 
his losses.
- He references the voluntary code  the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) through which victims of authorised push 
payments (APP) scams can in all but limited circumstances be reimbursed their 
losses. And lists the commitments that signatories of the CRM code have committed 
to.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear to me that Mr B has very strong feelings about this complaint and in support of this 
he has made detailed submissions. Id like to assure Mr B that Ive read and considered 
everything he has said in response to my provisional decision in its entirety. However, I trust 
that he will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues 
as a discourtesy  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Firstly, I note Mr Bs strength of feeling around our service not doing enough to protect 
victims like him. But Id like to explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service are 
independent and impartial, which means that we are not consumer champions, nor industry 
regulators and we do not act for, or represent the interests of, either consumers or financial 
businesses. My role is to look at the evidence in this complaint, in order to decide what is fair 
and reasonable, in accordance with our rules (the DISP rules, published by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and in line with the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000. 
Mr B has expressed concern that my intended decision is not consistent with other decisions 
issued by our service, and that it lacks impartiality. Each complaint is considered on its own 
merits and my role as an Ombudsman is to reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the specific facts of an individual case. Besides, here the 
major point of contention and disagreement is whether MBNA ought to have intervened at an 
earlier point in relation to the payments Mr B made to Z, which will understandably be unique 
to the circumstances of each individual complaint. And simply because Ive reached an 
outcome Mr B doesnt agree with and/or I hold a different opinion does not mean that Ive not 
been impartial in reaching my decision. 
I appreciate Mr B also thinks my intended decision deviates from the law by invoking fair and 
reasonable circumstances. But Id like to draw his attention to DISP 3.6.1R which says: 
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And of course when considering what, in 
my opinion, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case, I must take DISP 3.6.4R 
into account which says: In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case, the Ombudsman will take into account: (1) relevant: (a) law and regulations; (b) 
regulators' rules, guidance and standards; (c) codes of practice; and (2) (where appropriate) 
what he [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
I acknowledge that I am required to take the above factors into account when considering 
complaints  and whilst I have done so here  Id like to clarify that Im not bound to follow 
the law or regulations where, in my opinion, based on all the facts, it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances to depart from them.Mr B has said, that in his view, to say that a payer is fully liable for authorised payments is 
dangerously reductive. I understand why, having been a victim of a scam and being tricked 
into making the payments Mr B would feel this way. But under the relevant regulations, those 
being the Payment Services Regulations 2017 MBNA is only required to refund unauthorised 
transactions (which these arent) and is entitled to hold its customers liable for authorised 
transactions. However, in my provisional decision I have acknowledged and accepted that 
this is just the starting position. There is law, regulation and good industry practice, which 
say firms like MBNA have a duty to protect their customers against the risk of fraud and 
scams so far as is reasonably possible. And if, in breach of that duty, if they fail to act on 
information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial 
crime, they might be liable for the losses incurred by their customers as a result. 
I know Mr B feels strongly that by not intervening MBNA has failed in its safeguarding; due 
diligence duties to protect him; and has ultimately turned a blind eye to known facts 
pointing to a real possibility that he was being scammed. But I dont agree. Ive carefully 
considered whether MBNA should have done more  and I dont think in these particular 
circumstances it would be reasonable to say it ought to have. In reaching my outcome I have 
taken into consideration the BSI (including the two examples of suspicious activity he 
highlighted as being relevant to his complaint in his response to my provisional decision) and 
the findings of High Court case of Philipp v Barclays. And for the reasons Ive already 
explained in my provisional decision (see above) I still dont think the activity was sufficiently 
or remarkably unusual and/or suspicious, such that it would be fair to say MBNA ought to 
have intervened before it did. 
I note Mr B says dispositional factors or vulnerabilities have not been taken into 
consideration in reaching my outcome. But Im not aware of  nor have I seen evidence of 
MBNA being made aware of any of these before the disputed transactions.   
Mr B has highlighted the CRM Code and the commitments the signatories have agreed to. 
From his submissions its not clear whether this is because Mr B thinks a refund is due to 
him under the CRM code or if hes simply referenced this in support of his position that 
MBNA ought to have intervened and done more to protect him. However, the code only 
applies to APP (such as faster payments)  not card payments, so it would not cover the 
payments made from Mr Bs credit cards.       
So whilst Im sorry to hear Mr B has been the victim of a cruel scam, and I understand his 
natural disappointment with the outcome. Im not persuaded to deviate from the conclusion 
in my provisional decision. In the specific circumstances of this complaint, I do not consider it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold MBNA liable for Mr Bs loss.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman