DRN-3502068
The complaint
Miss C complains about the quality of a car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo). 
What happened
In July 2020 Miss C acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. 
Miss C experienced problems with the heating/cooling system and the gears shortly after 
acquiring the vehicle. Sometime in October 2020 the dealership paid for a replacement inter-
cooler in the gearbox to try and resolve the problem, and the oil was changed as it was 
contaminated with water. 
Miss C complained to MotoNovo in October 2020 because the heating still wasnt working 
and there were faults with the gears. 
MotoNovo arranged for an inspection of the vehicle, which took place in October 2020. That 
inspection found that there was excessive contamination in the coolant reservoir, which the 
engineer suspected was due to an EGR valve or other oil cooler defect, which needed 
further and immediate attention. It also found that one side of the heating operated cool air 
only, and the engineer suspected an internal fault with the unit. The report concluded that 
neither fault was present at the time the vehicle was supplied to Miss C, because of the time 
elapsed and the mileage covered since then. 
MotoNovo sent Miss C their final response to her complaint in October 2020. They upheld 
Miss Cs complaint in part because the dealership had carried out some work to resolve the 
faults. But they said the vehicle was of satisfactory quality because the current faults were 
not present or developing at the point of sale according to the inspection, and so they 
wouldnt do anything further. 
In December 2020 Miss C paid £680 to have the oil cooler replaced, the cooling system 
flushed, and anti-freeze added. 
In February 2021 Miss C took the car to a manufacturer dealership to investigate a coolant 
leak, and the heating not working. They diagnosed several leaks in the cooling system of the 
vehicle. Miss C paid £2,071.82 to repair the vehicle. 
In March 2021 a gearbox warning light appeared on the dashboard. Miss C took the vehicle 
back to the manufacturer garage who diagnosed water in the harness which had caused 
corrosion. Miss C paid £3,496.66 to have the vehicle repaired. 
Miss C complained again to MotoNovo about the quality of the vehicle in March 2021. 
MotoNovo sent Miss C their final response to her complaint in March 2021. They said the 
inspection carried out in October 2020 found the faults werent present or developing at the 
point of sale, and they couldnt inspect the vehicle again because the repairs had been 
completed. They said there was no evidence that the vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality at 
the time it was supplied to Miss C, so they didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy with their response, Miss C brought her complaint to us for investigation. Our 
investigator gave her view that Miss C had experienced problems with the gears shortly after 
acquiring the vehicle, this hadnt been reported on during the inspection that MotoNovo 
carried out, and given the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied, she didnt think 
it was of satisfactory quality. 
Our investigator recommended that Miss C be allowed her final right to reject the vehicle, 
and that MotoNovo should collect the car at no cost to Miss C, Refund half of Miss Cs 
monthly payment for March 2021 as she was without a vehicle whilst repairs took place plus 
interest, refund Miss C £5,568.48 for the repairs completed plus interest, pay Miss C £100 
compensation and remove any adverse information from Miss Cs credit file. 
Miss C said that the car had developed another fault with the alternator, which made it 
undrivable. She provided evidence that shed been unable to drive the car since May 2021 
due to this fault. Our investigator recommended that MotoNovo refund Miss Cs monthly 
payments from May 2021. 
Miss C told us that she paid £800 to have the alternator repaired in October 2021 because 
she needed the car to stay mobile. 
MotoNovo didnt respond to our investigators view, so the case was passed to me for a 
decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. MotoNovo as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £13,000. It was almost eight 
years old and had travelled around 66,000 miles at the time of supply. With this in mind, I 
think its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than that of a new or 
younger second-hand car. The price for the vehicle is lower, and this is reflective of the fact 
that the car is more road worn. The chance of encountering a serious issue sooner, is 
higher. 
Miss C reported problems with the gears and the heating system shortly after she acquired 
the vehicle. A number of investigations took place by garages and there were some repairs 
completed, including changing the oil, but the fault with the gears continued. The engineer 
appointed by MotoNovo didnt report on the gears when they completed their inspection in 
October 2020. The faults rectified by Miss C in March 2021 appear to be linked to the earlier faults, with a 
number of leaks identified in the cooling system, and the gears being contaminated with 
water. Im satisfied that the repairs completed in March 2021 were linked to the faults that 
Miss C began experiencing early in the agreement. 
The faults dont appear to have been caused by driving style or third-party damage, and Ive 
seen evidence that the car has been serviced in line with manufacturer guidelines, so they 
dont appear to be as a result of poor maintenance. There has been a suggestion that the 
faults with the heating system were due to wear of the vehicle, but the engineer didnt report 
on the fault with the gears, and the car wasnt road tested although Miss C had said the 
issue could only be felt while the car was in motion. 
All things considered, I dont think a reasonable person would expect such a serious fault 
with multiple leaks and water corrosion in the gearbox to have occurred in a car of this age 
and mileage, so soon after acquiring it. On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that 
the car was not reasonably durable, and therefore was not of satisfactory quality at the time 
of supply. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, MotoNovo should do to put 
things right. 
The Consumer Rights Act set out the remedies available where goods are considered not to 
be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is the final right to reject the vehicle, which 
is what our investigator recommended. However, this right can only be exercised where the 
goods have not been repaired. As the repairs are now complete and the vehicle has been 
returned to a satisfactory condition, Miss C no longer has a right to reject the vehicle. 
So, Ive gone to consider whether MotoNovo should reimburse Miss C for the costs of 
repairing the vehicle. There have been a number of faults identified, and a number of repairs 
completed. Ive considered whether they were things that made the vehicle of unsatisfactory 
quality at time of supply, or whether they were wear and tear issues where I would expect 
Miss C to be responsible for these costs.  
Ive considered each of the invoices submitted by Miss C. 
1. Supply and fit of a pressure switch and re-gas the air con system - £100
Ive seen no evidence that this repair was related to the fault with the gears, and it appears 
to be due to maintenance of the vehicle. So MotoNovo arent responsible for this cost. 
2. Front lower arms replaced - £660
This repair relates to the suspension brushes, which are an item normally subject to wear on 
a vehicle and require replacement during the life of the car. I think this is a normal wear and 
tear issue for a car of this age and mileage, and doesn't make the car of unsatisfactory 
quality, so Motonovo aren't responsible for this cost
3. Supply and fit oil cooler and header tank. Flush cooling system and add antifreeze - 
£680
This repair appears to have been an attempt to fix the problems with the cooling system, 
which led to the problems with the gears. As Ive set out above, I think this fault made the car 
of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Miss C, So MotoNovo should refund 
Miss C for this repair, plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment, to the date of 
settlement. 4. Investigate and repair leaks to cooling system - £2,071.82
For the reasons Ive set out above, this fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality at the 
time it was supplied to Miss C, So MotoNovo should refund Miss C for this repair, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment, to the date of settlement. 
Miss C was unable to drive the vehicle for around one week whilst these repairs were 
completed, and she wasnt kept mobile in this time. So, MotoNovo should refund one week 
of Miss Cs monthly payments for the period she was unable to use the vehicle. 
5. Repair to contaminated gearbox system - £3,496.66
For the reasons Ive set out above, this fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality at the 
time it was supplied to Miss C, So MotoNovo should refund Miss C for this repair, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment, to the date of settlement. 
Miss C was unable to drive the vehicle for around one week whilst these repairs were 
completed, and she wasnt kept mobile in this time. So, MotoNovo should refund one week 
of Miss Cs monthly payments for the period she was unable to use the vehicle. 
6. Replace alternator due to failure - £800
Miss C reported that the alternator on her vehicle had failed, meaning that the car wouldnt 
start, in around May 2021. It was undrivable until the repair was completed in October 2021. 
Miss C had the vehicle for almost a year at this point, and according to its MOT history from 
October 2021, it had travelled around 82,000 miles. Whilst an alternator might last the 
lifetime of a vehicle, they can require replacement anywhere from around 80,000 miles. 
Whilst needing to replace it at the earlier end of how long it might last for is unfortunate, it 
doesnt necessarily mean that it wasnt reasonably durable. So, Im not persuaded that this 
fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Miss C, and 
MotoNovo arent responsible for this cost, or any costs associated with this repair that Miss 
C faced in keeping herself mobile. 
Miss C has been put to inconvenience in taking the vehicle for a number of investigations, 
and in having to have the repairs completed herself. MotoNovo should pay Miss C £100 
compensation to reflect this.
Miss C responded to my provisional decision. She said shed hoped to be able to return the 
car, but provided it was now fixed she was happy with the outcome.
 
MotoNovo didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I explained, Miss C doesnt now have a right to reject the vehicle, because 
its been returned to a satisfactory condition. Should she experience any problems with it in 
the future, shell need to raise these with MotoNovo. 
As neither party has raised any new arguments, or sent me new information to consider, for 
the same reasoning that I set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold this 
complaint. Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, MotoNovo should refund Miss C for the 
repairs completed to faults which made the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality, which were; the 
oil cooler and header tank, leaks to the cooling system, and the repair to the gearbox. 
Miss C was unable to drive the vehicle for a week whilst the cooling system was repaired, 
and for another week whilst the gearbox was repaired, and she wasnt kept mobile during 
this time. So, MotoNovo should refund half of Miss Cs March 2021 monthly payment to 
reflect the time she was without a vehicle. 
Miss C has been put to inconvenience in taking the vehicle for a number of investigations, 
and in having to have the repairs completed herself. MotoNovo should pay Miss C £100 
compensation to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require MotoNovo Finance Limited to: 
Refund Miss C £680 for the repair to the oil cooler and header tank, plus 8% interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Refund Miss C £2,071.82 for the repair to the cooling system, plus 8% interest from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund Miss C £3,496.66 for the repair to the gearbox, plus 8% interest from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund half of Miss Cs March 2021 monthly payment to reflect the time she was 
without a vehicle, plus 8% interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss C £100 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
If MotoNovo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also 
give Miss C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2022. 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman