DRN-3061275
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss B says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Bs 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Capital One made it clear that Miss B didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because this was a postal application and Capital One has 
given us a copy of the credit card application and agreement. I see that Miss B has 
completed the form by hand and signed and dated the application. 
There is a section entitled ADDITIONAL INFORMATION which offered the applicant 
additional features on the credit card. I can see that Miss B has ticked the YES box in 
response to the statement PLEASE ENROL ME IN CAPITAL ONES PAYMENT 
PROTECTION SCHEME (See leaflet enclosed). There was an equally prominent box 
Miss B could have ticked if she hadnt wanted the PPI. And I see that Miss B did tick NO 
to other features offered. As the application was made by post Miss B would have 
completed the form in her own time and without any intervention from a representative of 
Capital One. So, I think Miss B was aware she had a choice about taking the PPI and 
decided to add it to her account upon application of her credit card.   
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B  so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Miss B enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss B. Although Miss B 
says she had a medical condition some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think 
better information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused her to 
change her mind about taking out the policy. I say this because the health problem    
Miss B told us about occurred eight years before she took the policy and it was resolved 
with a one off operation at the time. And Miss B didnt tell us of any ongoing problems 
so I think its unlikely she would have thought she would have needed to have made a 
claim on the policy because of that condition. It also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Miss B would have declined the cover had Capital One done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back conditions and 
exclusions on claims relation to mental health conditions, in light of Miss Bs 
circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have still thought 
she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss B would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting, and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Capital One should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman