DRN-2843273
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly declined her 
claims on her buildings insurance policy.
Im only going to refer to Lloyds in my decision but Im talking about all representatives and 
appointed experts working on its behalf.
Mrs L is represented in this case. But Ill only refer to her in this decision.
What happened
Mrs L had a water leak which appeared to come from an overflow pipe from the neighbours 
house. Shed previously made a claim for a dishwasher leak which Lloyds had covered. 
Shed also made a claim for pipe problems with her bathroom. But that had been declined 
due to not being caused by a one-off event. 
Mrs L felt that her neighbours overflow pipe had caused damp to her internal walls. So when 
Lloyds visited her property to inspect the bathroom damage she mentioned the overflow pipe 
issue. She hadnt mentioned this issue when shed registered the dishwasher leak. But due 
to Mrs Ls medical issues, Lloyds suggested it might be better for her if they dealt with one 
issue at a time. So they didnt offer another claim for the overflow at the time of the bathroom 
visit. 
Lloyds told Mrs L to make a separate claim for the overflow pipe damage. So she made a 
further claim on her buildings insurance about the damage she felt the overflow pipe had 
caused. But Lloyds declined the claim on the basis that a policy exclusion applied. They felt 
that the damage had been caused gradually and wasnt due to an insured event. Mrs L was 
unhappy with this response. So she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. She said Lloyds had declined the overflow 
pipe claim correctly and in line with their policy terms. Mrs L didnt agree. So the complaint 
has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs L, but I dont uphold her complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked carefully at Lloyds decisions and handling of Mrs Ls claim to see if theyve acted 
in accordance with the terms of the policy, and to see if theyve treated her fairly. 
Mrs L has complex mental health issues. Lloyds first became aware of these in January 
2020 when Mrs L registered two backdated claims from 2019  the dishwasher leak and the 
bathroom claim. She told Lloyds these claims were being reported late due to those health 
issues.
Lloyds appointed a Personal Claims Consultant (PCC) to support Mrs L whilst dealing with 
her claim. The PCC attended the property on 14 January 2020. Lloyds said that in order to 
avoid overwhelming Mrs L they were advised that each issue should be dealt with 
separately. The day after the visit the PCC emailed Mrs L to explain how the claim would 
progress. 
Mrs Ls policy covers her home for damage caused by specific insured events. When a 
policyholder makes a claim the onus is on them to show that an insured event caused the 
damage. If they cant, their claim wont succeed.
Gradually operating causes arent insured and the reason for this is to distinguish an 
insurance policy, dealing with one-off risks, from a maintenance contract that keeps a house 
in good working order. Insurers dont want to pay for maintenance that all householders must 
check for from time-to-time, but only for the specific, listed events within the policy.
I sympathise with Mrs L for the issues shes facing, but we have to be fair to both parties.  
And I could only require Lloyds to meet her claims if theyd incorrectly declined them. I 
havent seen enough evidence of an insured event that affected Mrs Ls home, so I think it 
was in line with the terms of the policy and fair for Lloyds to decline her claims. But Ill cover 
both of the claims in more detail to explain why Ive reached this decision.
The policy terms
Both the renewal document and the policy document clearly state whats not covered under 
the policy. I include the relevant wording here:
From page 3 of the 30 December 2019 renewal document:
What is not insured?
Wear and tear, maintenance, or loss or damage that happens over a period of time.
From page 45 of the policy document:
General exclusions
These exclusions apply to all sections of the policy.
This policy does not cover:
Uninsurable causes
Any loss or damage caused by:
A gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period 
of time, for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition
These are standard terms that I would expect to see in any buildings insurance policy 
documents. 
However, I couldnt automatically say that Lloyds treated Mrs L fairly by relying on the 
exclusions to decline her claim. I needed to consider if Mrs L shouldve been aware that the 
damage was occurring. And, if not, whether she took reasonable action - as soon as she 
became aware - to prevent further damage. This is because if Mrs L didnt know there was a 
problem, she couldnt have informed Lloyds or doing anything to stop the damage getting 
worse. 
Mrs L was surprised when Lloyds declined the overflow leak. This is because her previous 
kitchen claim, for a dishwasher leak, was covered. It was clear that the dishwasher leak had 
happened suddenly, not gradually. And Mrs L had the leak fixed quickly to prevent further 
damage.  So the kitchen claim was an insured event and was covered under the policy 
terms and conditions.Lloyds say that they consider that the other two claims  the bathroom claim and the 
overflow claim  werent insured events. Ill look at both of these claims below to explain why 
I think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably when it declined these claims. 
The bathroom claim
Lloyds said that the bathroom claim - for a damaged waste pipe  was declined as the 
damage appeared to be a result of maintenance issues and gradual deterioration caused by 
wear and tear. As noted above, these are exclusions listed under the General exclusions of 
the policy. 
But Mrs L said that she thought the damage had been caused by her dog biting the toilet 
pipe when trying to catch a rat. She said she didnt realise at the time, but her dog seemed 
to have bitten the concertina part of the plastic waste pipe at back of the toilet. The toilet 
then leaked without her knowing. But when Mrs Ls friend came to stay the damage was 
noted and the pipe was replaced. 
But Lloyds said the damaged waste pipe was declined as there was no evidence of damage 
to the pipe nor did it appear to be a new replacement. They also said that the damage 
appeared to be a result of maintenance issues and gradual deterioration caused by wear 
and tear. These are exclusions listed under non-insured perils.
Based on there being no evidence of damage, I think it was fair and reasonable of Lloyds to 
decline the claim for the damaged waste pipe. 
I understand that Mrs L feels that she was told that she would be given a full bathroom 
replacement. Lloyds have said this was never agreed. I can see from the claim notes that 
Mrs L did think this had been offered, but Ive seen no evidence that this was the case.
The overflow claim
The overflow pipe in the neighbours property is close to Mrs L's back wall and bathroom. 
She reported that the plaster on two walls was crumbling and the ceiling was peeling. 
Lloyds declined Mrs Ls claim for the damage she said was caused by the overflow pipe. 
They said there was a gradually operating cause and that preventative measures werent 
taken to stop the leak. Lloyds said that they explained that this claim was likely be declined 
due to being caused by a gradually operating cause during Mrs Ls first notification of loss 
call.
But Mrs L says she did take preventative steps once she realised the reason for the damp. 
She says: Once my friend confirmed this was causing damp to my walls, he attached a 
bung and hosepipe to the overflow pipe to redirect the flow away from my walls. She says 
she did this in 2019 and that she also used a de-humidifier for six months in the bathroom to 
dry the walls out. Mrs L said that two different Lloyds representatives were shown the 
hosepipe and confirmed that water was constantly running. Mrs L said both walls were 
becoming damp until these measures were put in place. As the dehumidifier dried the walls, 
the plaster started crumbling as it dried out. 
In light of this, our investigator asked Lloyds for evidence to show the damage to Mrs L's 
house from the neighbour's property had been caused gradually. Lloyds explained that 
when they were assessing the damage theyd been told that the problem with the overflow 
pipe had been ongoing for some time. They said that this was reflected in the plaster on the 
two walls  crumbling and the ceiling is peeling. We would not expect plaster to crumble 
unless there had been an ongoing issue for some time. They said they couldnt ignore this information about the duration of the problem and so were unable to change their 
assessment.
The claim notes show that the neighbouring property hadnt been occupied for around a year 
before Mrs L told Lloyds about the need to claim. They show that it was clearly explained to 
Mrs L that steps needed to be taken including contacting the owner of the neighbouring 
property or the council. The call notes from 14 February 2020 show that Mrs L stated she 
didnt feel she could contact the council regarding someone elses property. So Lloyds said 
they felt the leak had been allowed to continue for over a year. 
I can see that Lloyds think the damage happened gradually. And with strict application of the 
policy terms, then Lloyds can decline the claim. Based on all the evidence, I dont think 
Lloyds treated Mrs L unfairly when they declined the overflow pipe claim. This is because 
Ive not seen evidence that Mrs L did everything possible to prevent the damage as soon as 
possible. I appreciate that several measures were taken to stop the leak. But I havent seen 
evidence that these measures were taken as early as possible.  
I note Mrs L considers that part of the reason that Lloyds rejected the overflow claim is the 
time it took her to make the claim. She notes that she made her original kitchen claim late 
due to her medical issues. And that Lloyds met that claim despite the delay in reporting it. 
Mrs L also feels that she was told to delay the reporting of the overflow claim until the 
bathroom claim had been completed. Lloyds did tell her to do this as they wanted to ensure 
she didnt become overwhelmed. But Ive seen no evidence that Lloyds rejected the overflow 
claim because of when it was made. 
I can also see that Mrs L feels that Lloyds has discriminated against her because of her 
medical issues. But Ive seen no evidence of that. 
Based on all the evidence, I consider that Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably when it 
declined to cover the bathroom claim and the overflow pipe claim due to them not being 
insured events.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman