DRN-2410996
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about RAC Insurance Limiteds handling of the onward travel cover part of 
his breakdown policy.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr Ss car broke down whilst he was travelling with his partner and young 
son. He called RAC for help who arranged for his car to be recovered to his home address.
Mr S asked RAC to provide him with a hire car under the onward travel cover part of his 
breakdown policy. Initially Mr S was incorrectly told his policy didnt include onward travel.
Mr S says he hung up, called back and spoke to a different advisor who acknowledged he 
was covered for onward travel and a car was arranged for him to collect. But as it was the 
weekend the only availability was approximately 30 miles away. Mr S said he had no means 
of travelling to collect the car but RAC said it was his responsibility. Eventually Mr S 
arranged for a friend to bring him and his family home.
Mr S complained to RAC. He said theyd failed to deliver the service hed paid for. He asked 
them to refund the premiums hed paid. RAC offered Mr S £75 by way of an apology for 
initially giving him incorrect information. But it said the policy did not cover costs incurred in 
the delivery or collection of a hire vehicle so it wouldnt do anything further. Mr S declined 
RACs offer and remained unhappy so referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said RAC had acknowledged it initially gave 
Mr S incorrect information. He felt the compensation offered to address this error was fair 
and reasonable. He didnt think RAC were liable to cover the cost of a policy holder 
collecting a hire car, so he didnt think RAC had done anything wrong by not doing so. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S raised several issues with RAC. But this service is limited to what we can consider 
under this policy. So in my decision Ive only considered the Mr Ss concerns about the 
onward travel benefit of his policy. Having done so, I think RAC acted fairly and Ill now 
explain why.
Mr S was incorrectly told he didnt have onward travel as a benefit of his breakdown policy 
when he first called RAC. This isnt in dispute. But this was rectified soon after when hung up 
and called again. At this point it was confirmed he did have the benefit. So Im satisfied the 
compensation offered by RAC fairly reflects the inconvenience it caused.
Ive next looked at the availability of a hire car for Mr S and RACs refusal to cover the costs 
Mr S would have incurred by travelling to collect it.
Under the onward travel benefit of Mr Ss policy it says: If we attend a breakdown under 
sections A (Roadside) or B (At Home), and cannot fix your vehicle on the same day, we will 
help you by making arrangements to allow you to continue your journey.
The policy goes on to say Mr S is entitled to one of the following options: (1) Hire car; (2) 
alternative transport; or (3) overnight accommodation - based on his circumstances and 
subject to availability.
Ive listened to the call Mr S made to RAC where he requested RAC provide him with a hire 
car which it agreed to do. But Mr S was unhappy the closest availability of a vehicle was 
some distance away. I can understand Mr Ss frustrations, especially as he said hed no 
means of travelling to collect the vehicle. But his policy states the provision of a hire car is 
subject to availability. And due to Mr Ss breakdown occurring over a weekend availability 
was reduced due to some branches of the company RAC use being closed.
Mr Ss policy excludes covering the cost of delivery or collection of a hire car. For the same 
reason it explained above the option for Mr S pay for delivery was unavailable. During the 
call the advisor did ask her manager about covering the cost of a taxi for Mr S to collect the 
car, however this was not agreed. By not agreeing to cover these costs RAC was applying 
the policy terms.
Having looked at all the information Im satisfied RAC acted fairly and reasonably when 
applying the policy terms during Mr Ss claim. Im also satisfied the £75 is a fair amount to 
put things right for what happened.
Putting things right
RAC Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that RAC Insurance Limited 
should pay £75.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about RAC Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman