DRN-3158954
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent irresponsibly when it increased the
credit limit on his credit card and approved a loan.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr S applied for a credit card with Aqua in November 2017 and told it he was single, 
employed earning around £32,000 a year and a private tenant. Aqua completed a credit 
search and found no recent adverse information. Aqua also found Mr S owed around 
£3,000 to other unsecured creditors. A credit card with a £300 limit was approved by Aqua.
In May 2018 Aqua increased Mr S credit limit to £1,200, in September 2018 it was 
increased to £1,950, in February 2012 it went up to £3450 and a final credit limit increase 
to £4,000 was approved in June 2019. Each time, Aqua says it looked at Mr S credit file 
and applied its lending criteria before deciding to proceed.
In November 2018 Mr S applied for a loan with Aqua and reconfirmed his income. Aqua 
lent Mr S £1,500 over two years. Mr S repaid the loan in July 2019.
Earlier this year, Mr S complained that Aqua had lent irresponsibly when it increased the 
credit limit on his credit card and approved a personal loan. Mr S explained he was 
suffering with financial difficulties and had become reliant on credit to make ends meet.
Aqua didnt uphold Mr S complaint so he referred it to this service. An investigator 
considered Mr S case but didnt agree Aqua had lent irresponsibly. Mr S asked to appeal, 
so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a business agrees to lend, it should take reasonable steps to ensure it does so in a 
responsible way. Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. In practice, this
means businesses should ensure proportionate checks are carried out to make sure the 
customer can afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These checks should 
take into account various factors, like the amount being lent, the costs to the borrower 
each month, credit history and the consumers income and outgoings. As the relationship 
between lender and borrower progresses, the business may need to consider carrying out 
more comprehensive checks to ensure the borrower can afford repayments in a 
sustainable way.
In this case, Ive looked at each of the lending decisions Aqua made. Having considered 
the available information, Ive reached a different view to the investigator. I think Aqua lent 
irresponsibly when it increased Mr S credit limit and later approved a loan. Ill explain why.
Aqua initially approved a modest credit limit of £300 and I agree that was reasonable. 
Aqua found Mr S owed around £3,000 to other lenders and says his income was sufficient 
to support further borrowing of £300.
I think there were clear signs at an early stage that Mr S use of credit was becoming 
unsustainable. I note Aquas affordability data picked up Mr S other unsecured borrowing 
increased from £3,000 in November 2018 to around £11,000 in April 2018, the month 
before the credit limit increase to £1,200. Thats a substantial increase in unsecured 
borrowing in a short period.
I also think its reasonable to note that Aqua increased the existing credit limit by four 
times to £1,200. I can see Mr S had only made three payments to Aqua prior to its 
decision to increase his credit limit so only a short track record had built up. Taking these 
factors into account, Im satisfied there were signs Aqua shouldve picked up on that 
indicated further borrowing may not have been sustainable for Mr S. I think that shouldve 
caused Aqua to carry out more comprehensive checks before deciding whether to 
proceed.
As Ive said above, theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. Options like 
reviewing bank statements or obtaining evidence of a borrowers income are available to 
lenders. There are other checks businesses may chose to complete as well. Mr S has 
sent us copies of his full credit report along with bank statements for the period in 
question.
Looking at Mr S bank statements, I note a large proportion of his monthly income was 
used to service unsecured debt. I can also see borrowing with payday lenders that further 
shows Mr S was relying on credit each month to make ends meet. Had Aqua carried out 
proportionate checks Im satisfied it wouldve found evidence of Mr S increasing 
dependence on credit and I dont think it wouldve approved the credit limit increase to
£1,200 in April 2018.
It follows that if I think the first credit limit increase was approved irresponsibly, I think the 
same of the following increases. Ive looked at whether there shouldve been any other 
signs Aqua couldve picked up on to show Mr S was struggling.
I note the next credit limit increase to £1,950 took place four months after the first. So, 
again, there was a reasonably short period of Mr S maintaining his account on the existing 
credit limit. By this time, Mr S balance with Aqua was at the limit and his other unsecured 
borrowing had gone up to around £14,000. Thats a total increase in unsecured borrowing 
of around £4,000 in four months. Again, I think that in itself shouldve been sufficient to 
show Aqua Mr S borrowing was unsustainable and caused it to complete better checks 
before increasing his credit limit further.
Ive looked at Mr S bank statements from the months preceding the credit limit increase 
and again found evidence of pay day loans. Its clear Mr S was using credit to pay other 
debts which isnt a sustainable situation. Had Aqua completed better checks I dont think it 
wouldve increased Mr S credit limit to £1,950.
Aqua approved a new loan for Mr S in November 2018 and says it reconfirmed Mr S 
income with him. Given Mr S history with Aqua and its decision to substantially increase his existing borrowing in a reasonably short period, I think Aqua shouldve looked more 
closely at whether Mr S was able to support a loan as well. Mr S bank statements show 
that in the months before Aqua approved the loan Mr S had further borrowing with payday 
lenders and that his outgoings were supported by the use of credit. Had Aqua carried out 
better checks during Mr S loan application, I dont think it wouldve proceeded.
I note Mr S loan was repaid early and that he cleared the full balance of his Aqua credit 
card in January 2019. But Mr S bank statements show he was only able to do that 
because a friend had lent him the funds required. Again, Mr S was borrowing to repay 
credit which shows his situation wasnt sustainable in the long term.
Aqua increased the credit limit by £1,500 to £3,450 in February 2019. Given the size of the 
increase and the fact it had recently approved a new loan for Mr S, for a further £1,500, I 
think Aqua shouldve looked more closely at his situation. As Ive previously noted, Mr S 
bank statements show an increasing reliance on credit to support other borrowing as well 
as payday loans. Had Aqua carried out better checks, I dont think it wouldve approved Mr 
S credit limit increase to £3,450.
The final credit limit increase to £4,000 took place in June 2019 and by this point Im 
satisfied information available to Aqua shouldve caused it to carefully consider whether to 
proceed. I can see Mr S repaid his credit card balance in full in February 2019 and also 
cleared his loan balance. But, as Ive said above, Mr S bank statements show he was 
only able to do that by borrowing money from a friend. And, between February 2019 and 
June 2019 Mr S Aqua balance crept back up to around £2,000 and other unsecured 
borrowing increased from £6,300 to around £12,000. I think it was clear Mr S use of 
credit was unsustainable and Aqua wouldve found that if it had carried out more 
comprehensive checks. In line with previous increases, Im satisfied that if Aqua had 
carried out better checks it wouldnt have increased Mr S credit limit to £4,000 in June 
2019.
As I think Aqua lent irresponsibly, I intend to tell it to refund all interest, fees and charges 
applied to Mr S credit card debt for balances over £300. I also intend to tell Aqua to 
refund all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr S loan.
I dont think its fair for Aqua to record adverse information in relation to debts that were 
lent irresponsibly. As a result, I intend to tell Aqua to amend Mr S credit file to remove all
adverse information reported from May 2018 onwards in relation to credit card balances 
over £300.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr S responded to confirm he accepted the 
provisional decision. We didnt hear back from NewDay. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr S complaint should be 
upheld for the same reasons. As a result, Im going to proceed and uphold Mr S complaint.   
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to settle 
as follows: 
- Rework Mr S credit card balance so all interest, fees and charges applied from May 
2018 onwards on balances over £300 are refunded
- If an outstanding balance remains, Aqua should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan. No adverse information about the plan should be recorded on Mr S 
credit file
- If the effect of refunding interest, fees and charges results in a credit balance, the 
extra should be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Mr S along with 8% 
interest until the date of settlement  
- Refund all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr S loan directly to him
- Amend Mr S credit file to remove adverse information reported in relation to his 
credit card on balances over £300 from May 2018 onwards
- Amend Mr S credit file to remove all reference to the loan account
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman