DRN-2399705
The complaint
This complaint arises out of a mortgage application Miss D made (through her mortgage 
broker) to Aldermore Bank Plc. Miss D says that Aldermore changed the terms of the 
mortgage, to her detriment, and failed to provide her with a Key Facts Illustration (KFI). 
To settle the complaint, Miss D wants Aldermore to reduce the interest rate to that of her first 
mortgage offer, and the period the early repayment charge (ERC) will apply from five years 
to two years.
The complaint has been brought on Miss Ds behalf by her father, Mr D.
What happened
In late 2018 Miss D was in the process of purchasing a property with the aid of a mortgage 
from Aldermore. The mortgage was arranged for Miss D by her own independent mortgage 
broker, who advised her about the most suitable mortgage product for her circumstances. 
The application was submitted to Aldermore in October 2018. 
A mortgage offer was issued on 22 November 2018 for a mortgage of £98,000 over a term 
of 35 years, with a purchase price of £104,000, giving a loan-to-value ratio (LTV) of 94.23%. 
The mortgage was on a fixed rate of 5.08% for the first two years of the term, during which 
time an ERC would apply.
On 10 January 2019 the broker told Aldermore that Miss D was looking at a new property at 
a purchase price of £110,000. The broker asked what the maximum advance would be. 
Aldermore said it would look at affordability and let the broker know in due course.
But on 15 January 2019 the broker contacted Aldermore to explain that the price of the 
(original) property was, in fact, £105,000, not £104,000. On 16 January 2019 the broker said: 
If there is any movement with the valuer to £105,000 that would be great and client move 
forward at 95% of the £105,000 otherwise they have the funds to put the extra down (sic)
Aldermore replied to say that, at a price of £105,000, the maximum loan would be £96,609. 
As the deposit of £6,000 for the purchase at £104,000 was made up of £1,500 in savings 
and £4,500 from a gift, the bank needed to know where the shortfall of £2,391 would be 
sourced from.
On 22 January 2019 the broker emailed Aldermore as follows: 
New product
Hi, could you please alter product to 5 year fixed 5.18% with no fee. £105,000 
purchase price and £99,750 borrow many thanks [broker name] (sic)
On 23 January 2019 Aldermore prepared a KFI for a new mortgage of £99,750 over a period 
of 35 years, at a purchase price of £105,000. The first five years of the mortgage were at a 
fixed rate of 5.18%, during which time an ERC would apply. The LTV was 95%. 
A mortgage offer was issued on 24 January 2019 which said This Offer incorporates the 
Mortgage Illustration enclosed with it .
The mortgage completed on 31 January 2019.
In October 2019 Miss D complained to Aldermore that the mortgage offer had been changed 
without her knowledge or consent from the two-year fixed rate at 5.08% to the five-year fixed 
rate at 5.18%. Aldermore didnt uphold the complaint, explaining that the change had been 
at the request of her broker.
Dissatisfied with Aldermores response, the complaint was brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. On Miss Ds behalf, Mr D said that, in addition to the mortgage terms 
being changed unilaterally by Aldermore, the bank had failed to comply with regulations 
because it hadnt provided Miss D with a KFI.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Miss Ds mortgage broker had asked Aldermore to change the product. In the 
circumstances, he didnt think Aldermore had done anything wrong.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators findings. He said that he thought thered been a mis-
transcription of the purchase price from £105,000 to £104,000 and he wasnt persuaded 
that Aldermore wasnt to blame for this. He thinks this was done deliberately by Aldermore in 
order to foist less favourable terms on his daughter. Mr D also said that failure to provide a 
KFI was a breach of contract and non-compliant.
The investigator clarified that the change in purchase price was as a result of the broker 
contacting Aldermore to inform the bank of this. The investigator also explained that it was 
the brokers responsibility to provide a KFI and that all communication from Aldermore was 
through the broker.
Mr D still didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons.
Ill begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt Aldermores regulator 
and so although Ive noted what Mr D has said about non-compliance, thats outside our 
remit. In any event, non-compliance with regulations does not amount to breach of contract, as Mr D suggests. But, as Ive explained below, Aldermore did, in fact, produce a 
KFI for the new product.
The timeline of events has been set out in both Aldermores final response letter and in the 
correspondence between our investigator and Mr D. Its not disputed that the purchase price 
was altered during the course of the mortgage applicaiton, and that a new mortgage offer 
was issued; the crux of the complaint is that Mr D says that this was done by Aldermore off 
its own back and that Aldermore has a track record and reputation for doing this.  Mr D 
believes Aldermore deliberately took advantage of the time pressure Miss D was under to 
alter the mortgage product and term to its own advantage and to her detriment.
But Ive looked at the evidence and I have to disagree with Mr D. From the evidence, its 
clear to me that the following happened:
the broker told Aldermore that thered been a mistake in the purchase price and that 
it was £105,000 not £104,000;
the broker asked Aldermore to amend the product to a five-year fixed rate at 5.18%;
Aldermore produced a KFI on 23 January 2019 for the new mortgage product;
the mortgage offer issued on 24 January 2019 also incorporated this KFI (which was 
re-printed and re-dated 24 January 2019).
In the circumstances, Im unable to find that Aldermore has done anything wrong. 
The evidence doesnt support Mr Ds contention that it was Aldermore which altered the 
purchase price of the property. This was information volunteered by Miss Ds broker.
Furthermore, it was the broker who specifically asked Aldermore to change the product and 
that this wasnt something Aldermore did itself; the bank acted on the brokers instructions.  
The broker was representing Miss D. Aldermore had no direct contact with Miss D, nor was it 
required to, as she had instructed the broker to act as her intermediary in the transaction. 
Aldermore was entitled to act on the brokers instructions.
Im also satisfied Aldermore produced a KFI for the new product. If the broker didnt go 
through this with Miss D, then thats something she can take up with her broker. In any 
event, the KFI was incorporated into the mortgage offer, and Miss Ds solicitors would (or 
should) have advised Miss D of the terms of the mortgage before completion.
Given this, Im satisfied there is no basis on which I can hold Aldermore responsible for 
issuing a five-year fixed rate mortgage, when this was done on the explicit instructions of 
Miss Ds own independent mortgage broker. 
If Miss D maintains the mortgage product was changed was without her knowledge or 
consent, she will need to take this up with the broker. If the matter cant be resolved with the 
broker, Miss D will be able to bring a fresh complaint to us against the broker.
In all the circumstances of this case, for the reasons given above, Im satisfied Aldermore 
hasnt done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman