DRN-2817335
The complaint
Mr K and Mr Ws complaint is about a mortgage they held with Santander UK Plc. They are 
unhappy that when they paid off their mortgage before the end of their interest rate product, 
they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) of the amount they did. They believe the 
mortgage offer was unclear about how much they could overpay the mortgage by, and that 
they cant use the overpayment allowance retrospectively. As such, they think the mortgage 
offer was misleading and, therefore, the mortgage was mis-sold. 
What happened
In 2016 Mr K and Mr W applied for a mortgage with Santander via an independent mortgage 
broker. The application was successful, and the mortgage completed in early 2017. The 
mortgage was for £750,000, over a term of 25 years and it was arranged on a repayment 
basis. Attached to the mortgage was a fixed interest rate product that ended at the beginning 
of March 2022. It was detailed that if the mortgage were repaid before the beginning of 
March 2022 an ERC of 5% of the amount repaid or transferred would be charged.  
In relation to making overpayments, the mortgage offer said:
If there is an early repayment charge referred to in section 10, you may, without having to 
pay an early repayment charge, make additional capital repayments of up to 10% of the loan 
for each year. Overpayments in excess of 10% each year will attract an early repayment 
charge on the amount of the excess. 
In 2020 Mr K and Mr W decided to move to another property they owned and sell the 
mortgaged one. They applied to port the mortgage and interest rate product to the other 
property, but they were unable to do so, as they already owned it. As such, the mortgage 
would have to be repaid and an ERC would be payable. 
Following a redemption statement being sent to Mr K and Mr Ws solicitors, Mr K and Mr W 
wanted to pay a lump sum off the mortgage equivalent to the 10% overpayment allowance 
for each of the four years theyd held the mortgage. Santander told them they couldnt do 
this  the allowance ran per calendar year and didnt rollover. Mr K and Mr W believed the 
wording contained in the mortgage offer was unclear and could be interpreted as allowing, 
without the payment of an ERC, an overpayment totalling an amount equivalent to 10% for 
each year they had held the mortgage. They said the mortgage offer didnt mention anything 
about calendar years or the allowance not being retrospective. 
Santander said Mr K and Mr W would have been given a booklet called A straightforward 
guide to your Santander mortgage when they took the mortgage out. This booklet set out in 
relation to ERCs:
Even where your mortgage offer states an early repayment charge applies you can still 
overpay up to 10% each calendar year (January to December) without having to pay an 
early repayment charge. A minimum of £500 applies each time you make an overpayment. 
You cant carry forward any unused element of the 10% allowance into future years. You 
also cant take advantage of the 10% allowance if youre repaying all of the money you owe 
upon the sale of your property. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Mr K and Mr W had been correctly 
advised that the overpayment allowance from unused years couldnt be carried over to later 
years. 
Mr K and Mr W werent happy with Santanders response and referred their complaint to this 
service. When they did so they told us they understood and accepted being charged an 
ERC. However, they were unhappy that they werent told the overpayment allowance 
couldnt be used retrospectively. They also said that Santander hadnt provided them with 
the booklet it had referred to.
Mr K and Mr W made an overpayment for the then current mortgage year of 10% of the 
outstanding balance in November 2020. The mortgage was redeemed in total a few days 
later and an ERC was applied. 
When Santander provided us with its file of information, it highlighted that the mortgage had 
been sold by an independent mortgage broker. It explained that as part of the sale process 
for a Santander mortgage, the broker would have provided Mr K and Mr W with a copy of 
Santanders A straightforward guide to your Santander mortgage. Santander also pointed 
out that if Mr K and Mr W thought the mortgage had been mis-sold, the complaint should 
rightly be directed to the broker who had sold it. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She explained that it was the brokers responsibility to have ensured Mr K and Mr W 
understood the mortgage they were taking out. This would include ensuring they understood 
the terms and conditions of the mortgage, including those surrounding the ERC and 
overpayment facility. As such, in relation to the complaint against Santander, she could only 
consider whether the documentation provided by it was clear, which she thought it was.
Mr K and Mr W didnt accept the investigators conclusion as they disagreed that the wording 
wasnt misleading and asked that the investigator consider the wording again.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her conclusions. As agreement couldnt be 
reached, it was decided the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Santander and our investigator have pointed out, Mr K and Mr W were provided with 
advice by an independent mortgage broker. That means it was the brokers responsibility to 
ensure they understood the mortgage they were taking out, including the key features of it. 
So if Mr K and Mr W feel they were mis-sold the mortgage because they were misled or 
werent told about how any features of the mortgage worked, it would be the broker to which 
they should direct their concerns. 
In this complaint, I can only look at whether the documentation Santander produced was 
misleading, as Mr K and Mr W believe it was. What I would also say is that where multiple 
pieces of information were provided, I must look at the information as a whole and in context. 
In this case, when the mortgage was recommended to Mr K and Mr W they would have 
received an explanation of it from their broker. They would also have been given information 
about the mortgage, including an illustration of the details, costs and key features of it and the guide booklet referred to above. It would have been from these documents, along with 
the explanation from the broker, that Mr K and Mr W gained their understanding of the 
mortgage and its features. It is that understanding on which they would have relied when 
making the decision to accept the recommendation to apply for the mortgage. 
I have quoted the relevant section of the booklet above. I consider it is sufficiently clear that 
overpayment allowances run for a calendar year only and that they dont rollover to increase 
future allowances if not used. Whilst Mr K and Mr W have said Santander didnt send them a 
copy of the booklet, it wouldnt have, as they would have been given it by the broker before 
the application. I note Mr K and Mr W havent said they didnt receive a copy.
I would say at this stage that the mortgage is a contract. Such a contract will detail what the 
parties obligations are under the contract and what the contract allows them to do. The 
contract wont list all the things each of the parties are not allowed to do under it and to 
expect it to wouldnt be reasonable. So the fact that the contract doesnt say the 
overpayment allowance cant be used retrospectively, shouldnt reasonably be interpreted as 
meaning that it can be.
The mortgage offer Mr K and Mr W received after receiving this explanation and the oral 
explanation from their broker, again detailed the overpayment allowance. Mr K and Mr W 
have indicated they interpreted the wording make additional capital repayments of up to 
10% of the loan for [my emphasis] each year to mean that they could make a payment for 
any year they hadnt made one for already. However, the next sentence says Overpayments 
in excess of 10% each year will attract an early repayment charge on the amount of the 
excess.. This clearly indicates an ERC would be charged on any payment in a year that 
exceeded 10% of the mortgage balance. I am not persuaded Mr K and Mr Ws interpretation 
of the wording is reasonable, especially given the information they would have already had 
about the allowance. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr K and Mr W, but I am not persuaded the 
documentation that was produced by Santander, and which was given to Mr K and Mr W, 
was misleading in relation to retrospective use of the overpayment allowance.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr K and Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 July 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman