DRN-2454903
The complaint
Mr H complains that Soteria Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
Mr H is represented in this matter by his father, a named driver on his policy. 
What happened
Soteria contacted Mr H to ask him about an incident that had been notified by another driver. 
Mr H described an incident which was different to that reported. Soteria obtained dashcam 
footage that showed that Mr H had been involved in the notified incident. It thought Mr H had 
made a false statement by denying involvement and it cancelled his policy. Mr H then had 
difficulty obtaining cover elsewhere and this was much more expensive for him.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr H had 
made an honest mistake. This was because hed been involved in two incidents on the same 
day. The first one, which the other driver later notified to Soteria, was minor, at low speed 
and the drivers didnt stop at the time. The second incident was more serious and caused 
damage to both cars. So she thought Mr H had forgotten about the first incident and initially 
denied involvement.
So the investigator thought Soteria had unfairly cancelled Mr Hs policy. She thought it 
should remove records of the cancellation and its ban on Mr H and provide him with a letter 
saying that the cancellation was removed. She thought it should pay Mr H the difference 
between his new policy premium and the cheapest quote he had without the cancellation, 
with interest. And she thought it should pay Mr H £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Soteria replied it thought the dashcam footage showed that Mr H was well aware of the 
incident and so he should have reported it and the second incident on the same day. It said 
it had cancelled the policy on the basis that Mr H was a moral hazard because hed lied 
about involvement in the first incident. It said the cancellation wasnt recorded on external 
databases and it had a right to refuse to offer Mr H cover in the future. It thought the 
increase in Mr Hs premium was due to two claims in one year, not the cancellation. 
Mr H replied that he wasnt aware that hed touched the rear of the other car until he saw the 
dashcam footage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
In its response to Mr Hs complaint, Soteria told him that under the policy terms and 
conditions he had a duty to cooperate with claims investigations. I think this is standard 
industry practice and I can see, on page 23 of the policy booklet under Cancellation that 
failure to cooperate is a reason why Soteria may cancel the policy. 
Soteria also said it was entitled to cancel his policy if Mr H carelessly, recklessly or 
deliberately make a false statement. But I think this is in relation to providing a false 
statement when taking out the policy. And I can see that Soteria hasnt accused Mr H of 
fraudulent behaviour. So I dont think this term can be reasonably applied.
Soteria also said Mr H had been dishonest in denying involvement in the first incident. And 
so it said it cancelled the policy due to Mr H being a moral hazard. I cant see where in the 
policy it defines this term. I think it commonly means that someone acted differently than he 
would have without the protection of his insurance. And I cant see that this applies to Mr Hs 
circumstances. 
But I think Soteria could rely on Mr Hs denial of involvement in the incident as being a failure 
to cooperate in a claim investigation and so cancel the policy. So Ive looked to see whether 
this was fair and reasonable in Mr Hs particular circumstances. 
Ive listened to the call where Soteria said Mr H was dishonest. This was just five days after 
the incidents. Mr H readily admitted hed been in an incident that day and told Soteria that 
hed been hit in the rear, but he wasnt making a claim for repairs. He said the other drivers 
insurer would be dealing with the repairs. Soteria agreed that it would note the claim as for 
information only and his No Claims Discount (NCD) would be allowed. 
Soteria then described the earlier incident where the driver said Mr H had hit their car in the 
rear. Mr H sounded nonplussed by this description. Soteria told him that dashcam footage 
was available from the other driver. Mr H said he hadnt been involved in any other incidents 
on that day. 
Mr Hs father then took over the conversation. Mr Hs father suggested that the second 
incident may be due to a cloned number plate or a mistake. Unfortunately, Soteria didnt ask 
Mr H any further direct questions that may have prompted his memory. I cant see that 
Soteria again spoke to Mr H directly about the incident. 
In the first call, Soteria told Mr H several times that it would be obtaining the dashcam 
footage. But Mr H didnt raise any concerns about this. Soteria couldnt describe the other 
car or the location, which may have triggered Mr Hs recall of the incident. Soteria also told 
Mr H that the other insurer may have provided an incorrect registration and that this was a 
regular occurrence. 
Soteria then obtained the footage. It said the dashcam footage clearly showed Mr H colliding 
with the rear of another car at low speed whilst distracted. It said Mr H and his passenger 
looked surprised after the impact. The other driver then drove away, and no details were 
exchanged. 
Mr H still denied any involvement and volunteered photographs and a video of his car to 
show that it was undamaged. It was only when the dashcam footage was provided to Mr H 
that he recalled the incident. 
So I think Mr H clearly denied involvement in the first incident. But I think that, on balance, 
this was a genuine mistake. This is because:
There were two incidents on the same day. Soteria asked Mr H for his recollection 
and he told it about the second incident that had led to damage to his car. When the 
first incident was described, Mr H didnt express any strength of feeling. From the call 
recording, I think Mr H simply didnt recollect the incident.  
Mr H was forthcoming about the second incident. And I think that if hed been 
prompted by details of the other car or the location, or been asked further direct 
questions, he would have been more likely to have recalled the first incident.
The incident was a minor impact at low speed and the other driver didnt stop to 
exchange details. Mr H said he didnt think the cars had touched. There was 
evidently no damage to Mr Hs car and so he may well have thought that the incident wouldnt lead to a claim.
Mr H didnt express any concern when told that dashcam footage of the incident 
would be obtained. I think if he had recalled the incident at the time, then this would 
have prompted him to tell Soteria about it rather than be found out later. 
So I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Soteria to cancel Mr Hs policy because hed 
denied being involved in the first incident. 
Soteria later said Mr H should have reported both incidents on the same day they occurred. 
But this isnt stated in the policy. It says that consumers should report any incident as soon 
as reasonably possible and quickly. 
So I think Mr H should have reported both incidents to Soteria within a reasonable time. This 
is stated several times in his policy documents, and I think its fair and reasonable as it will 
help Soteria to mitigate any losses. 
But Mr H didnt do this. He didnt think the first incident was relevant as he didnt think there 
had been contact between the cars and no damage had been caused to his car. I think this 
was an oversight on his part. 
Mr H said he was waiting for the other insurer to accept liability for the second incident 
before he reported it. This didnt cause Soteria any losses as the other insurer covered the 
costs of the claim. So I think Mr Hs failure to report the incidents quickly to Soteria isnt a 
sufficient reason for it to cancel his policy. 
I think the unfair cancellation by Soteria led to Mr H paying an increased premium for his 
new policy and its subsequent replacement. For the 2020 policy, Mr H has provided 
evidence of what the cheapest policy would cost without the cancellation, but with two 
claims, one fault and one non-fault. And hes provided us with evidence of the cheapest 
policies he found with the cancellation and the claims added. 
Due to the nature of this company, rerating the policy without the cancellation makes no 
difference to the premium. So I think Soteria should reasonably pay Mr H the difference 
between these two quotes, £3,602.78, less the refund of premium its already provided, 
£535.87. And, as Mr H has been without his money for some time, I think Soteria should add 
interest to that amount. 
Mr H also had to declare the cancellation at his renewal in February 2021. Again, Ive seen 
evidence from the new insurer that rerating the policy without the cancellation marker makes 
no difference to the premium. 
So Ive looked at what Mr H would have paid just with the two claims, and a years NCD and 
compared this to the cheapest policy he found. The difference in prices was about £1,200, or 
£100 a month. So to restore Mr Hs position, I think Soteria should reasonably add £200 to 
its payment to him for his two months cover. Mr H can then choose to continue with this 
policy or cancel it and find cheaper cover elsewhere at the risk of losing some months NCD. 
Soteria said that the cancellation wasnt recorded on any external databases. But I think 
Soteria should remove records of the cancellation from any internal databases and provide 
Mr H with a letter stating that the cancellation has been removed. 
Our investigator thought Soteria should remove its ban on providing Mr H with cover in the 
future. But I think its Soterias commercial decision whether or not to offer cover. And so this 
isnt something I can require. Weve explained this to Mr H. 
Our investigator also recommended that Soteria should pay Mr H £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by its unfair decision. I can see that the cancellation has caused 
Mr H significant distress and worry. So I think £150 compensation is fair and reasonable as 
its what Id require in similar circumstances. 
Putting things rightTo put things right for Mr H, I require Soteria Insurance Limited to do the following: 
1. Remove records of the cancellation from any internal databases where its been 
recorded 
2. Provide Mr H with a letter stating that the cancellation marker has been removed and he 
neednt disclose this to future insurers.
3. Pay Mr H £3,066.91, for his additional insurance costs in 2020, adding interest to this 
amount at 8% simple per year from the date of cancellation to the date of payment , 
and a further £200 for his additional costs in 2021. 
4. Pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unfair 
cancellation of his policy. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Soteria to take off tax from this interest. Soteria must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Soteria Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman