DRN-1269443
 
The complaint
Mr R complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited have declined a claim he made under 
his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R had an accident while driving in wet weather on a motorway. He swerved but 
unfortunately collided with a truck and then the central reservation. Mr Rs car was badly 
damaged in the accident. He called Admiral to make a claim. 
Admiral arranged for an Independent Assessor to review Mr Rs car and provide a report on 
the damage and accident circumstances, as it had been noted that both of the rear tyres of 
the car were below the minimum legal limit for tread depth.  The assessor confirmed the rear 
tyres were below the minimum and in their opinion, that more likely than not contributed to 
the accident. They explained as the weather was wet at the time, the condition of the tyres 
would have made the car unstable and likely to aquaplane.
Admiral told Mr R it wouldnt be covering his claim as he hadnt kept his car in a roadworthy 
condition as required under the policy. It also said that while it would deal with the third 
parties claims against him, it would look to recover those costs from him.  
Mr R didnt feel this was fair or that Admiral had taken into account the damage that would 
have been done to the tyres during the accident. He also said he felt the accident would 
have happened anyway because of the rain. Mr R also made the point that hed changed the 
tyres seven months before the accident and a service two months before, hadnt highlighted 
the tread depths were low.  
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Admiral acted unreasonably. She 
explained the policy did allow Admiral to take the action it had. She was persuaded based on 
the evidence that Mr Rs tyres were below the legal minimum and that Admiral were entitled 
to rely on the expert opinion of the independent assessor regarding this.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He points out the 
assessor gives no breakdown as to what damage to the tyres was caused by the accident 
and he makes an assumption the tyres were a contributory factor to the accident rather than 
making a statement of fact. Mr R also said the measurement of the tyres was that at the time 
of the inspection, so this doesnt prove they were below the minimum at the time of the 
accident. Mr R maintains it is his believe all of the damage to the tyres was caused in the 
accident. 
The case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr R feels very strongly about the points he has made and how his claim was 
dealt with. I can assure Mr R I have taken into account all of his points and the information 
he has provided; however, I will concentrate my decision on what I think are the main points 
of the complaint rather than addressing everything he has raised. I dont intend this as a 
discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Mr Rs policy contains a general condition which requires him to make sure his car is in a 
roadworthy condition at all times. It also says if he doesnt and the condition of the car 
causes or contributes to an accident, no cover will be provided. What I need to decide here 
is if Admiral acted reasonably in relying on those conditions to decline Mr Rs claim. 
UK law specifies the legal minimum tread depth for a tyre is 1.6mm. Admiral have said the 
rear tyres on Mr Rs car were 1.5mm and 1mm. Because of this, it has said Mr Rs car 
wasnt in a roadworthy condition at the time of the accident.
Mr R has questioned if the tread depth was measured correctly and whether accident 
damage has been taken into account. While I can appreciate why Mr R has made these 
arguments, Im persuaded the Independent Assessor, being an expert in their field, is aware 
of how tread depths should be measured and would take into account accident damage prior 
to giving their professional opinion.  
I do agree, having viewed the images available, there is brake and skid damage visible on 
the tyres. However, I can also see looking at the side of the tyres there is very little tread. 
Ive also thought about the fact Mr R changed the tyres seven months prior to the accident 
and that no concerns were raised two months before when he had a service. However, Mr R 
has explained the tyres he placed on the rear of the car were part worn, meaning they had 
less tread depth than brand new tyres and likely would have needed replacing sooner. Many 
factors can affect how quickly a tyre can wear, Mr R had travelled over 10,000 miles since 
he changed the tyres and it is quite possible, they could have been above the legal limit two 
months prior to the accident and below later. 
Overall having considered everything, Im more persuaded by both the measurements taken 
and the photos supplied. I think its more likely than not, the tyres werent in a roadworthy 
condition at the time of the accident. 
Mr R has said the accident would have happened anyway because of the rain. Ive thought 
about what hes said here and the comments he has made about the Independent Assessor 
not making a definitive conclusion about the role of the tyres in the accident. However, the 
terms of Mr Rs policy mean in this case, the tyres only had to be a contributory factor in the 
accident for Admiral to be able to rely on the term to decline the claim. 
As Ive said above, Im satisfied the Independent Assessor, being an expert in their field 
would give their professional opinion based on the information available to them.  In their 
opinion the condition of the tyres most likely contributed to the accident. I dont think this 
statement is unreasonable and theyve explained why theyve reached that conclusion. 
While I appreciate what Mr R has said, Admiral is entitled to rely on the evidence of experts 
when considering the claim. And, in the absence of any contradictory expert opinion I dont 
think it has acted unreasonably in relying on the opinion it has been given here. 
Having considered everything, I dont think Admiral has acted unfairly or unreasonably and 
as such, I dont intend to interfere with its decision to decline Mr Rs claim.My final decision
My final decision is I reject Mr Rs complaint against Admiral Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman