DRN-2884630
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the actions of Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd in connection with 
the renewal and cancellation of a breakdown insurance policy.
Reference to Bastion includes its agents.
What happened
On 28 December 2020 Mr M spotted that an unexpected sum of around £33 had been 
charged to his credit card account. He then noted that, on 17 December 2020, Bastion had 
sent him a notice of renewal for a breakdown policy with a £33 premium. The policy was set 
to renew on 4 January 2021. 
Mr M contacted Bastion. He told it he didn't want the policy to renew. Bastion said he could 
cancel it but it would charge him £9.98 to do so. Mr M reluctantly paid that charge but 
Bastion didn't give him a premium refund straightaway.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. After he'd done so Bastion refunded the £33 premium. 
That didn't resolve Mr Ms complaint. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think 
Bastion had dealt with Mr M fairly. She said it should also refund the £9.98 admin charges 
and pay him £50 compensation. 
Bastion agreed to refund the £9.98 charges but refused to pay any compensation. As it 
didn't agree with our investigators assessment the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bastion said that when Mr M initially took out his policy he agreed to its charges and to the 
policy auto renewing. So, as it thinks it had to do some work to renew the policy, it says its 
entitled to charge Mr M for its time in doing so. 
I agree that, when Mr M took out his policy a year earlier, he agreed to Bastions charges 
relating to renewal and cancellation. But when considering a consumers complaint, I will 
look beyond contractual terms and conditions and consider whether, in all the circumstances 
of the complaint, a business has treated a customer fairly and reasonably. 
In this case, the renewal notification Bastion sent to Mr M on 17 December 2020 didn't warn 
him that, if he didn't cancel the policy promptly, he would incur charges. And I don't think 
many people would remember all the terms and conditions of a policy theyd bought a year 
earlier. In this case Mr M made it clear to Bastion that he didn't want the policy to renew 
before it took effect.  
In those circumstances, where Mr M clearly didn't want the policy, I don't think it was fair for 
Bastion to apply admin charges for a policy Mr M didn't want and was unlikely to realise or 
remember that he might incur charges for. It follows that I don't think Bastion acted fairly or 
reasonably in applying its £9.98 charges in this case.
Further it then took Bastion around three months to actually give Mr M a premium refund for 
a policy he didn't want and had already been charged for. Bastion said that some of this 
delay was caused by the pandemic. While I accept that might be the case for its business in 
general, it was quick enough to charge Mr M for its admin of the renewal and cancellation, 
taking the payment the same day. So I don't understand why it couldn't process the refund 
with similar efficiency. 
Further, Im aware that Bastions unfair charging of the fees caused Mr M some 
inconvenience. Thats because he had to devote time to dealing with both Bastion and then 
us to try to resolve the issue. And Bastions delays in giving Mr M the refund has, no doubt, 
added to his frustration and inconvenience. To address this, I think Bastion should pay Mr M 
£50 compensation.
For completeness, Ill pick up on a point Mr M made in response to our investigators 
assessment of the complaint when he commented on our role as a regulator. Were not the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is. So where, as here, we make 
awards for compensation, those are to reflect the distress and inconvenience suffered by the 
consumer. They aren't intended as a form of fine, punishment or deterrent for the business 
involved.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd 
to:
Refund Mr M £9.98 admin fees it charged him in association with renewing and 
cancelling his policy.
Pay Mr M £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman