DRN-2241107
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mobile Money Limited (MML) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr B was given nine loans by MML between August 2011 and October 2015. The loans 
were repayable in either six or twelve monthly instalments and were secured against Mr Bs 
car. Mr B often used a new loan to refinance his previous borrowing, but all of the loans have 
been fully repaid. A summary of Mr Bs borrowing from MML is as follows (for simplicity Ive 
rounded the loan amounts to the nearest pound);
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount Number of 
Repayments
1 23/08/2011 06/02/2012 £    550 6
2 06/02/2012 07/08/2012 £    500 6
3 30/08/2012 07/12/2012 £    450 6
4 07/12/2012 23/04/2013 £    450 6
5 23/04/2013 13/11/2013 £    714 12
6 13/11/2013 09/05/2014 £    719 12
7 09/05/2014 10/01/2015 £    722 12
8 04/02/2015 03/10/2015 £    400 12
9 03/10/2015 25/02/2016 £    600 12
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He hadnt seen any 
evidence to make him think MML had been wrong to give the first four loans to Mr B. But he 
thought the pattern of Mr Bs borrowing should have led the lender to decline Mr Bs 
applications for the remaining loans. So he asked MML to pay Mr B some compensation.
MML didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr B accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Bs complaint.
The regulator when Mr B first started borrowing from MML was the Office of Fair Trading. In 
2014, just before loan 7 was agreed, the Financial Conduct Authority took over. And so the 
rules and regulations when MML gave these loans to Mr B changed over time. But they all 
required it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr B could 
afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so MML had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this 
meant that MML had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr B undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for MML to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. And there may 
even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking 
about whether MML did what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr B.
MML gathered information about Mr Bs income and expenditure before some of the loans  
it has said that it only performed that check on loans taken more than a year after the 
information had previously been gathered. It also checked Mr Bs payslips to verify his 
income before some of the loans, and checked his bank statements before loan 8. But 
I should note that Mr B has said that MML carefully directed him about the period that bank 
statement should cover in order to present as good a picture of his finances as possible.
I dont think MML was wrong to give the first three loans to Mr B. Considering the amounts 
that he needed to repay, the length of each of the loans, what was apparent about Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for MML to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first three loans.I do think, by the time Mr B asked for loan 4, that MML should have realised that it couldnt 
safely rely on the information he was providing about his finances. By this time he had been 
borrowing from MML with hardly any break for more than 13 months. I think MML should 
have taken steps at that time to independently verify Mr Bs true financial position. We asked 
Mr B for copies of his bank statements from around the time of loan 4 so we could see what 
better checks would have shown MML. He didnt provide these to us. So Im not able to say 
that better checks would have shown MML that it shouldnt have given loan 4 to Mr B.
But looking at the overall pattern of MMLs lending history with Mr B I think by loan 5 the 
lender should reasonably have decided that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so MML should have realised that it shouldnt provide further loans. 
I say this because:
This was now Mr Bs fifth loan request. By this time hed been borrowing from MML 
for 20 months, with only a single break of just 23 days between loans 2 and 3. 
Each of the loans Mr B had taken to date had been repayable over a period of six 
months. But Mr B regularly refinanced his loans by taking new borrowing before the 
natural end of the loan, thus increasing the time that he was indebted to MML. I think 
that pattern of borrowing should have indicated to MML that Mr B was most likely 
having significant problems managing his money. 
When Mr B asked for loan 5 he wasnt making any inroads to the amount he owed 
the lender. Loan 5 was by far the largest loan hed taken to date. 
Following loan 5 Mr Bs pattern of borrowing continued. He took another four loans, 
generally using the proceeds of a new loan to repay some earlier borrowing. There 
was only one further small gap of just under a month. I think MML ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr B was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
So I dont think MML should have agreed to lend to Mr B from loan 5 onwards. MML needs 
to pay Mr B some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think MML should have agreed to lend to Mr B after, and including, the loan that he 
took on 23 April 2013. So MML should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr B on loans 5 to 9. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans taken from loan 5 onwards means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So all entries about loans 5 to 9 should be removed from Mr Bs credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MML to take off tax from this interest. MML must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Bs complaint and direct Mobile Money Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman