DRN-1778210
The complaint
Ms R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc ("HSBC") unfairly applied a default to her credit 
card account. 
What happened
In October 2018, Ms Rs credit card account was in arrears. So HSBC wrote to her 
requesting that the account be brought up to date. When it wasnt, HSBC issued a default 
noticed and subsequently defaulted the account. This has been recorded on Ms Rs credit 
record which has prevented her from gaining credit elsewhere. 
Ms R complains that HSBC sent these letters to her old address. And whilst she 
acknowledges that she hadnt updated HSBC with her new address details, she says it 
shouldve called or emailed her. 
HSBC says it spoke to Ms R on the phone twice in October 2018 and she said shed update 
her address in branch. But she didnt do so. It also says it tried calling again in December 
2018 as well as sending a letter via the online banking system. 
When the arrears still hadnt been paid in February 2019, a default notice and final demand 
were sent to the address it held for Ms R in line with its internal procedure. 
Our investigator was satisfied that HSBC had done enough to try to contact Ms R about the 
arrears. And she felt the obligation was on Ms R to update her address details. As our 
investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong, she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms R didnt agree. She feels that HSBC shouldve emailed her and said she hadnt received 
any calls from the bank, nor had she set up her online banking. Shes also explained that 
she was under a lot of pressure at the time with the hassles of moving home and changing 
jobs. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
HSBC wrote to Ms R twice in October 2018 to inform her that her direct debit had been 
returned unpaid and that shed missed a payment to her credit card. By this time, Ms R had 
moved house.
I can see from HSBCs contact notes that it subsequently spoke to Ms R on the phone about 
the missed payment on two occasions. And it agreed to refund the late payment fee. So Im 
satisfied Ms R was on notice that her account was in arrears. 
When a payment wasnt made and the arrears fell into arrears, HSBC made several 
attempts to contact Ms R by phone and internet banking. This is reflected in its contact 
notes. As HSBC had spoken to Ms R on the phone previously about the account, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to use the phone as its method of contact. Furthermore, it 
has shown us that Ms R opted in for internal banking some time ago so its not unreasonable 
to think that this was a viable option of communication. 
I appreciate that HSBC couldve also emailed Ms R. But I dont think there was any 
obligation for it to do so when it had already written, called and contacted her through the 
online banking system. As Ms R had not told it that shed moved or that she wasnt using 
internet banking, I dont think it's reasonable to expect HSBC to know she didn't want to be 
contacted in these ways. And alongside this, I also cant ignore Ms Rs own responsibilities 
to ensure her credit card payments were met.
Its Ms Rs responsibility to update HSBC when changing address. But she didnt do so until 
eight months later. I do appreciate the stresses and upheaval that moving house can bring. 
But to uphold Ms Rs complaint, Id need to be satisfied that HSBC did something wrong or 
unfair in the circumstances of this complaint. And Im not persuaded that it has. So Im not 
asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman