DRN-3589070
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) provided him with credit he 
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Nat West approved two credit card applications for Mr T. The first in November 2019 with a 
limit of £2,750 and a further card in March 2020 with a limit of £2,650.
Mr B says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
Nat West disagree. They say that when they approved the first credit card application they 
used a combination of credit reference agency, computer modelling, and self-reported 
information to assess the application. They also saw Mr Bs bank statements as he banked 
with them and they were aware hed recently consolidated debts through a loan theyd 
supplied. They noted he was living with his parents, earning about £1,531 per month and 
there were no defaults or missed credit card payments for at least a year on his credit file. 
They said hed declared no housing costs, but theyd established living costs of £589 and 
taken account of £307 of monthly loan repayments, theyd decided he would need to pay 
£53 towards his revolving credit balances and, based on all of that information, they thought 
hed still have a disposable income of £582 to fund repayments towards this new application. 
They didnt therefore think the credit was unaffordable.
When Nat West approved a further card four months later they said Mr Bs income was 
about £1,600 per month and his outgoings were similar with a disposable income of £408 
per month. They said Mr Bs debt to income ratio at the point of this second application was 
about 62% and they didnt think the card was unaffordable in those circumstances.
Our investigator agreed with Nat West, but Mr B didnt, and he asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I think Nat West completed proportionate checks before approving the first credit card. They 
had significant information available to them to be able to do that and considered Mr Bs 
bank statements, credit file obligations, and his expenditure.
Ive set their creditworthiness calculation out in the background and having completed that 
assessment I dont think there would be anything that would have raised concerns that Mr B 
couldnt afford the credit they were providing. Nat West were aware of Mr Bs other debts 
and also aware that hed refinanced those debts though a loan with them. His performance 
against his other credit commitments had been good and he appeared to have enough 
disposable income to afford the credit being provided. I dont think the first credit card 
application decision was therefore irresponsible and I think the credit would have been 
affordable based on the reasonable and proportionate checks Nat West completed.
I think Nat West also completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the 
second card. They considered the same comprehensive information they had before they 
approved the first card. But that doesnt necessarily mean the card was affordable for Mr B. 
So, Ive thought about what that information should have shown Nat West. Theyve 
explained that they believed Mr Bs disposable income would have been about £408 having 
taken into account nominal payments towards his new card.
The FCA's Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) applies to all credit-related regulated 
activities. Its section on Creditworthiness and Sustainability said at the time Mr B applied for 
the credit card, that when considering whether credit was affordable a lender must assume 
the consumer draws down the entire credit limit available to them and it may consider the 
consumer repays that amount by instalments over a reasonable period. If Mr B had drawn 
down the whole credit limit and repaid over a reasonable three year period the instalments 
would have been about £380 a month. I think that assumption would have reduced his 
disposable income, but I still think hed have enough disposable income to suggest the new 
credit card was affordable and I therefore dont think the second card was provided 
irresponsibly either.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman