DRN-1158848
The complaint
This complaint is about the sale of a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out by Mr T and Mrs T in 1996 with Nationwide Building Society in connection 
with a joint mortgage. Mr T and Mrs T complain the policy was mis-sold to them.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld because theyd been given 
information to make an informed decision about PPI  and anything more detailed wouldnt 
have stopped them buying the policy. Our adjudicator also said the clause relating to a claim 
made by those who were self-employed wasnt particularly onerous for Mr T. 
Mr T and Mrs T disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked 
at again. The added the following points:
the unemployment cover was of no benefit to them because Mr T was self-employed;
his other insurance was enough for his needs.
 
I should note here that the PPI policy only covered Mr T, so I will mainly refer only to him. 
Although I will refer to Mr T and Mrs T where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr T and Mrs Ts case.
Having done that Ive decided not to uphold Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointment to them so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Nationwide did enough to show Mr T and Mrs T that the policy was 
an optional product. Nationwide didnt have the documents which Mr T and Mrs T completed 
in 1996, but that is not surprising as the sale happened a long time ago. However, 
Nationwide told us the PPI was taken out in 1996 to cover a joint mortgage Mr T and Mrs T 
had taken out earlier in 1995. So I think as they did not take the PPI out immediately with the 
mortgage, they probably knew PPI was an optional product which was added to their 
mortgage account later. 
Neither Mr and Mrs T nor Nationwide could tell us how they took out the PPI with 
Nationwide. However, Nationwide told us that the sale was a non-advised information only 
sale. So Ill look at it as a non-advised sale. 
For a non-advised sale, Nationwide should have given Mr T and Mrs T enough information 
which was clear, fair and not misleading so they could make their own informed decision about whether to buy the policy. So Id expect Nationwide to highlight the policys significant 
features.
Mr T and Mrs T specifically complain the policy wouldnt cover Mr T because he was self-
employed. So I looked at the policy terms and conditions which Nationwide said were given 
to Mr and Mrs T around the time of the sale. I could see that a consumer could claim for 
unemployment cover. And unemployment was defined as:
a period when you are no longer in employment and are registered as unemployed...
Ive considered this term very carefully, and I have decided I agree with our adjudicator  I 
dont think this is an onerous term. It isnt asking a self-employed consumer to do anything 
over and above what it requires an employed consumer to do if they were unemployed. I 
know Mr T and Mrs T will be disappointed with this. But I dont think the policy term makes it 
impossible for Mr T to make a claim  so I dont uphold this part of their complaint. 
Mr T and Mrs T also said Mr T had other insurance which covered him for accident and 
sickness cover. Nationwide says Mr Ts other insurance policy would only cover him for 
around 26 weeks at around the time of the sale - although it did seem this amount increased 
in later years. However, I noted the PPI policy could have covered a successful claim for up 
to 24 months. So I think the PPI policy was still of benefit to Mr and Mrs T.
I would also have expected Nationwide to tell Mr T and Mrs T the cost and benefit of the PPI 
policy. I dont know what information they had during the sale about it, but Nationwide said it 
sent a Policy Schedule to Mr and Mrs T which showed the monthly PPI cost. So having 
decided they chose to have the PPI, I dont think any more information about cost and 
benefit would have stopped them from buying the policy.
Id also expect Nationwide to highlight the things the policy didnt cover (the exclusions) but I 
dont think Mr T was affected by them. So even if the information about the exclusions was 
clearer, I dont think that clearer information would have stopped them from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional. And I dont think 
that any more detailed information would have put them off from buying the PPI. So Im not 
going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman