DRN-3365159
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs T complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited have declined a claim 
for a suitcase stolen from his car.
What happened
Mr J and Mrs T purchased a home insurance policy with Lloyds Bank to cover their buildings 
and contents. They extended the policy to cover personal possessions away from home.
In August 2021 Mr J went to a petrol station. While queuing to pay inside the shop, a person 
on a scooter smashed the window of his car and stole a suitcase containing personal 
possessions. 
The thief then rode off. Mr J saw the theft take place and ran out of the shop but was too late 
to prevent the items from being stolen.
A claim was submitted to Lloyds but this was rejected due to an exclusion in the policy for 
items stolen from the car when it was unattended. 
Mr J and Mrs T were unhappy with this and so brought their complaint to this service to 
consider. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and decided that Lloyds hadnt done anything 
wrong. Mr J and Mrs T asked that the case be reviewed again by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The exclusion that Lloyds have relied upon is in the policy booklet under the section 
General personal possessions exclusions. It says that the following would not be covered:
Loss or damage:
 Caused by theft or attempted theft from an unattended motor vehicle unless:
 all doors, windows and other openings are properly fastened
 the items were kept in a locked, covered, boot, luggage compartment or 
glove compartment and there's evidence of a violent and forcible entry
This is a common exclusion in both contents and motor insurance policies and so would not 
need to be specifically highlighted to the consumer when purchasing the policy. And its not 
inherently unfair. Insurers can and will decide what risks they are willing to cover, just so 
long as they make that clear to any potential customer.
I have first considered whether it is fair to say that the vehicle was unattended. Mr J says 
that he was always less than 25 feet away from the car as the petrol station isnt very large. 
The car was in his sight all the time and indeed he saw the theft take place. As he was so 
close, I understand why he feels that the car was never unattended. 
The word unattended isnt defined in the policy however if the consumer has left the vehicle 
and wasnt in a position to intervene or deter the thief, were likely to say that the car was 
unattended. 
Mr J did chase after the thieves and almost caught them, but he wasnt close enough to the 
car to prevent the theft in the first place. He was inside the garage shop, which meant that 
there was at least one door between him and the car, which would impede any attempt to 
intervene.  
Mr J and Mrs T didnt agree that a consumer should have to intervene in a theft to prove that 
the vehicle wasnt unattended, as this could be dangerous and could result in injury. 
Of course, they are right and the individual circumstances would have to be taken into 
account. However, a theft is much more unlikely to occur if the driver is in, or stood next to, 
the vehicle.
Taking the above into account, I am satisfied that the car was unattended. 
The next part of the exclusions says that if the vehicle was unattended, to be covered by the 
policy the stolen items would have to be taken from a locked, covered, boot, luggage 
compartment or glove compartment. There would also have to be evidence of a violent and 
forcible entry.
There is no question that there was a violent and forcible entry  the window was smashed 
to gain access. This would fulfil the criteria of violent and forcible.
Mr J and Mrs T say that the stolen suitcase was in the back of the vehicle covered by a 
blanket along with other items. They believe that the exclusion shouldnt apply because it 
mentions covered which the suitcase was. 
However, an item being covered isnt enough to say that the exclusion shouldnt apply. 
When read as a whole, it is clear that the exclusion means that the items should be totally 
out of sight and locked safely away. Specifically, they should be inside a boot, luggage 
compartment or glove compartment. 
If a thief was looking for a potential vehicle to steal from, they shouldnt be able to see 
anything on display. Although the suitcase was covered by a blanket, it wasnt in a locked 
compartment and so was still visible to the thieves.
Again, I should stress that Lloyds  like any insurer  are entitled to decide what risks they 
wish to cover, at what price. 
If they arent willing to cover items left in a car which isnt attended and not inside a covered 
boot or compartment, that is their choice  as long as it was clear to the customer when they 
bought the policy what was covered and what was not. And in this case, the terms of the 
policy are clear and unambiguous.
I sympathise with Mr J and Mrs T as this theft caused them a great deal of stress and 
affected their upcoming family holiday, however I dont believe that Lloyds have applied the 
exclusion unfairly. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Mr J and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman