DRN-4273528
The complaint
Mrs N complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) decided liability 
for a claim under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs N had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering her car. In October 2021 her 
husband was involved in a collision with a third-party vehicle while driving the car. Although 
he was involved in the collision, for ease Ill refer to Mrs N throughout.
Mrs N made a claim from Admiral and told it a third party had collided with her car. 
She says Admirals claims handlers tried to persuade her to accept liability for the collision. 
Mrs N instructed her own solicitor. She says Admiral told her solicitor that Mrs Ns husband 
was at fault. 
Admiral accepted Mrs N was at fault for the collision, which she didnt agree with.
Her premiums increased at renewal and she had one strike against her No Claims Discount 
(NCD).
She complained to Admiral. It didnt uphold her complaint and it said it had acted fairly.
Mrs N remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She asks that the claim 
is removed from her records and the strike against her NCD is cancelled.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Admiral acted 
fairly when it investigated and handled the claim.
Mrs N didnt agree with the view and asked that her complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide who is at fault for a collision, but investigate whether Admiral has acted 
fairly and reasonably and in line with its policy terms and conditions in handling Mrs Ns 
claim in the way it did. 
Having read the file of information Ive been provided, Im not upholding Mrs Ns complaint 
and Ill explain why.
I can see that early on in the claim, Admiral were seeking to handle the claim on a non-fault 
basis, meaning that the other party would be found entirely at fault.
When Admiral approached the third party, this non-fault position was denied and Admiral 
and the third party adopted a 50/50 liability position.
Later in the claim, Admiral was sent a photograph showing the position of the vehicles 
involved in the aftermath of the collision. Admiral re-assessed the claim and decided that it 
was likely that Mrs Ns position wasnt defensible in court. It agreed to settle the claim on a 
fault basis, without prejudice. What this means is that if further evidence is received, it 
reserves the right to recover its costs from the third party.
Mrs N feels particularly strongly about Admirals actions during the claim. She instructed her 
own solicitor and feels that Admiral effectively overruled the solicitor.
Its important that I say to Mrs N that Admiral has a responsibility to handle claims quickly in 
accordance with the portal set up by the government for handling motor claims. 
It, rather than Mrs Ns solicitor, handles the claim for damages and third-party losses through 
the portal. Mrs Ns solicitor is for her to pursue damages should she wish to do so, for 
example her uninsured losses.
I can see from the file that this has been explained to Mrs N and that the final position taken 
by Admiral of without prejudice also allows her to continue to take action against the third 
party if she wishes.
Admirals policy wording contains the following section:
Defending or settling a claim
We are entitled to.
 conduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf
This type of wording is common in the insurance marketplace and I think its use is fair here. 
It seems to me that Admirals actions in investigating and defending the claim were fair and 
reasonable. Once it discovered the photograph showing the exact situation of the collision, it 
took the decision that Mrs N was likely going to be held responsible for the collision in court. 
So Admiral settled the claim as it was entitled to do under the terms of its policy. 
Mrs N has also complained about the impact of the claim on her premium and NCD. I can 
see from the file that Mrs Ns NCD was reduced as allowed under the terms of her policy. 
Claims are just one of the factors insurers like Admiral use to assess risks and, when Mrs 
Ns policy was due to renew, Admirals system would assess those factors and provide her 
with a renewal premium. So the fact that Mrs N has been involved in a collision may have 
affected the premium, and the decision on liability would likely have also been a factor in the 
premium calculation. 
Taking these into account, its likely that Mrs Ns premium would change at renewal because 
of the claim and many other factors. But its not this services role to involve ourselves in 
commercial decisions, like rating premiums, that are made by Admiral, so I cant uphold this 
aspect of Mrs Ns complaint. 
Admiral has reasonably recorded a claim under Mrs Ns policy and Ive said above that it has 
adjusted her NCD accordingly in line with the policy terms. So Im not upholding this 
complaint.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman