DRN-3937610
The complaint
Ms G complains about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited handled the claims she made 
under her private health insurance policy, and the service she received.
What happened
Ms G held a private health insurance policy with AXA since 1 December 2016 on a 
moratorium basis. But she cancelled the policy on 3 March 2022 because she wasnt happy 
with the service shed received from AXA.
Ms G is unhappy with several aspects of AXAs service. But the key issues are that AXA 
didnt handle Ms Gs claim for lung cancer appropriately (which included several different 
appointments, referrals and diagnostic tests), and that she felt discriminated against due to 
the requirements of the ID verification process to gain access to AXAs online GP service.
Overall, Ms G says AXA deliberately confused and misled her, and it delayed and avoided 
making decisions on her claim. Ms G wants AXA to refund her all the premiums she paid 
since 2016.
AXA acknowledged it hadnt always given Ms G a good level of service. In recognition of 
this, it paid one of the consultants invoices (£195) which wasnt otherwise covered under the 
policy. But overall, AXA said it had considered Ms G claims for treatment in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. AXA also said that the online GP service was provided by 
another business that was required to comply with the relevant data protection regulation 
when verifying customers. Unhappy with AXAs responses, Ms G brought a complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into Ms G complaint. Having done so, she thought that AXA 
had treated Ms G fairly and reasonably. Overall, she didnt think there was anything else it 
needed to do, to put things right.
Ms G didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I note that Ms G has invited me to get in touch with her for further information in 
support of her complaint. But Im satisfied Ms G has had the opportunity to send us all the 
information she wants me to consider when reaching my decision. And having considered 
everything, Im satisfied I have enough information to make a fair and reasonable decision 
on Ms Gs complaint.
It might also be helpful if I explained that my role is to address and make a decision on what 
I consider to be the crux of Ms Gs complaint about AXA. And in doing so, Im required to 
address what I think is material to the outcome of the complaint. So, while I wont comment 
on every detail Ms G has raised, I have read and considered all the information available 
when reaching my decision.
Ms Gs claim for lung cancer
Ms G got in touch with AXA in November 2021 as she wanted to see a consultant due to 
chest pains and shortness of breath. But the consultant Ms G wanted to see was an oral 
specialist. AXA said Ms G would need a referral from a GP to confirm the specialist she 
needed to see.
Ms G saw a GP in December 2021 who referred her for a chest x-ray. But AXA said GP 
referred diagnostic tests werent covered under the policy  only those referred by a 
specialist were. The GP said there were no red flags for cancer and the chest pains were 
likely due to costochondritis. But Ms G was concerned about lung cancer so she wanted to 
see an oncologist. AXA said it would need to know what type of specialist was required 
before being able to recommend one.
Following this, AXA said it would allow for the chest x-ray, but the GP would need to confirm 
which specialist would be needed for AXA to provide Ms G with names of consultants. Ms G 
then self-referred herself to see an oral specialist in January 2022 who had treated her 
previously.
The oral specialist said Ms G had previously been treated in the oral and maxillofacial 
department. He said that based on a surveillance CT scan in October 2021, there was no 
evidence of recurrent disease at primary site but new findings of multiple bilateral lung and 
pleural metastases. The consultant referred Ms G to an oncologist.
I dont think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. It wasnt clear what type of 
specialist Ms G needed to see, and the GP referral this didnt specify this. I also dont think 
AXA was unreasonable in asking why Ms G wanted to see an oral specialist when she was 
experiencing chest pains. I think AXA acted fairly and reasonably when it allowed Ms G to 
have the chest x-ray under her policy, even when this wasnt recommended by a specialist, 
as set out in the terms of the policy.
Ms G joined AXA on a moratorium basis. This meant that she wouldnt have cover for 
treatment of medical problems she had in the five years before she joined until shed been a 
member for two years in a row, and shed had a period of two years in a row, since she 
joined, that had been trouble-free from that condition.
AXA noted that the oral specialist said Ms G had had cancer in 2014, and the treatment 
ended in 2015. As Ms Gs policy started in 2016, this meant that the cancer fell within the 
moratorium terms. AXA also noted that the new cancer diagnosis was metastatic, which 
suggested it had spread from the previous cancer. So, AXA said it needed to establish if 
Ms G had had two years trouble-free before it could confirm whether this was something the 
policy covered or not. AXA explained to Ms G that it needed to look into the medical 
evidence to see if her condition would be pre-existing under the terms of the policy, and it 
asked Ms G for further information in order to review this.
I dont think AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably when it said it needed more information 
before confirming if Ms Gs claim was covered or if it would be considered as pre-existing 
under the terms of the policy. This is because Ms Gs claim was for cancer, and shed had 
cancer in the last five years before taking out the policy.Following this, AXA authorised Ms G to see the oncologist the oral specialist had referred 
her to. But AXA said it would need a report from the oncologist before it would consider 
covering any further treatment. However, Ms G asked to see different specialist at a 
specified hospital instead. AXA provided Ms G with the names of two specialists she could 
see at her specified hospital. Following this, Ms G said both had declined a consultation, so 
she needed AXA to provide names of other consultants. But before AXA could do anything 
further, Ms G cancelled her policy.
I note that Ms G did have the consultation with the oncologist AXA had authorised, and AXA 
paid for this. Even though AXA didnt know this at the time, I dont think its unreasonable 
that AXA didnt authorise any further consultations. It had said that it would need to see a 
report from the oncologist before authorising any further treatment.
Overall, I can see that there were some service issues on AXAs end, such as not calling 
Ms G back as promised. But I think what AXA has done to put things right by authorising and 
paying for a consultation and diagnostic test that werent otherwise covered under the policy 
terms is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont think theres anything else it needs 
to do, to put things right.
AXAs online GP service
Ms G says shes been discriminated against as she hasnt been able to access this service. 
Our service doesnt have the power to determine whether there has been a breach of the 
Equalities Act 2010  only a court can do that. But I am required, amongst other things, to 
take into account relevant law when considering whats fair and reasonable.
Under the terms of Ms Gs policy, she needs a GP referral to see a specialist, but this 
doesnt need to be through AXAs online GP service. AXA has said that the service provider 
has been in touch with Ms G to provide advice with the account registration and asked her to 
get in touch if she needed more help. AXA has also explained that the service is required to 
adhere to the relevant data protection regulations when verifying patient identity.
Im satisfied AXA has tried to help Ms G with the problems she encountered, and this hasnt 
prevented Ms G from making a claim on her policy. Overall, I dont think AXA has treated 
Ms G unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman