DRN-3795623
The Complaint
Mr L says that Bank of Scotland PLC (trading as Halifax) (BoS) didnt fairly or reasonably 
deal with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in 
relation to the purchase of a holiday product on 12 July 2006 (the Time of Sale).
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mr Ls because they stem from a 
credit card in his sole name. But as the transaction in question relates to a contract entered 
into by him and Mrs R, Ill refer to Mr L and Mrs R at times throughout this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr L and Mrs R bought membership of a holiday club from a third party (the Supplier) at the 
Time of Sale. The purchase price was £2,785 and they used a credit card in Mr Ls name to 
pay for all of it.
Unhappy with what happened at the Time of Sale, Mr L  using a professional representative 
(PR) made claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under Sections 75 and 
140A of the CCA on 26 October 2018 (the Letter of Claim). There were a number of 
reasons for those claims  which can be summarised as follows:
Section 75: Misrepresentation
A high number of the promises made at the Time of Sale werent reflected in the 
purchase agreement.
Mr L and Mrs R were led to believe that membership was tailor-made to their needs and 
requirements. This turned out to be untrue.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Despite the Suppliers assurances, Mr L and Mrs R could hardly secure bookings to fit in 
with their holiday pattern.
At no point were Mr L and Mrs R told that membership was being sold in perpetuity.
Mr L and Mrs R werent told that maintenance fees would rise at the rate they have done.
Mr L and Mrs R were given inaccurate information about membership and its utility.
The Supplier acted negligently when applying undue pressure.
The Supplier failed to act in Mr L and Mrs Rs best interests.
The Supplier failed to ensure compliance and due diligence.
The Supplier failed in its duty of care towards Mr L and Mrs R.
The sale of membership failed to comply with the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations).
The decision to lend to Mr L and Mrs R failed to go through a sound and proper credit 
assessment in line with the Finance and Leasing Associations Lending Code 2012.
The discrepancies in the purchase agreement, the promises made by the Supplier and 
its failure to disclose the potential risks of membership led to Mr L and Mrs R suffering a 
loss.
The Supplier failed to take reasonable steps to ensure that membership was suitable for 
Mr L and Mrs R.
The relationship between Mr L and BoS was unfair because of undisclosed commission 
and the failure of those involved to advise Mr L and Mrs R as to the suitability of 
membership for them.
BoS appears to have responded to Mr Ls claims on 12 November 2018 arguing, it seems, 
that the Section 75 claim was made out of time under the relevant provisions of the 
Limitation Act 1980 (the LA). BoS made no mention of Mr Ls Section 140A claim.
A complaint was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 28 December 2018. 
It was looked at by an adjudicator who, having considered the information available to him, 
concluded that:
1. The Section 75 claim for misrepresentation was made out of time under the LA; and
2. The Section 140A claim lost on its merits.
By this stage, Mr L was represented by a different professional representative (M) who 
disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans decision. M 
argued, briefly, that the limitation period had to be determined according to when Mr L knew 
about the misrepresentations rather than when he made the purchase. It also thought that 
Section 32 of the LA extended the time Mr L had to make his claim.
M followed its initial response to the adjudicators assessment with more detail on 24 March 
2021. And it asked the adjudicator to consider the following:
Irresponsible lending as no affordability checks were undertaken by the Supplier.
Pressure as the sales presentation lasted at least four hours and Mr L and Mrs R werent 
allowed to leave  which clearly gives rise to an unfair relationship contrary to Section 
140A of the CCA.
Tactics used by the Supplier were nothing short of undue influence.
Mr L and Mrs R were told that their membership was an investment when it clearly 
wasnt.
The Supplier was selling the same product to many consumers knowing full well that, if 
they all wanted to holiday at the same time as Mr L and Mrs R, it wasnt possible to 
accommodate that. So, each and every misrepresentation by the Supplier was 
fraudulent.
Mr L could not have known that the Suppliers misrepresentations were fraudulent or 
what remedy was available to him until he instructed M who, in turn, told him that the 
misrepresentations were fraudulent.
Mr L can rely on Section 32 of the LA to extend the time available to claim.
M also submitted written recollections from Mr L and Mrs R  which can be summarised as 
follows:
They were advised at the Time of Sale that they could sell the property at any time. But 
when they tried, the Supplier wasnt interested.They asked for further time to consider the purchase. But they received constant phone 
calls in their room asking them if they had made up their mind.
They finally signed the paperwork. But they werent given a chance to read the terms 
and conditions.
They started to notice that they were only able to book holidays in the peak season and 
they also noted that availability was becoming an issue.
No affordability checks were done.
The maintenance fees started to increase drastically. They started at £1,200 per year 
and then started to climb steeply up to £2,000 per year.
They were never told about the membership being perpetual.
The points system was never fully explained to them. So, they came to realise that more 
points meant that they had to pay more fees.
The complaint was then reviewed by an investigator who, in light of the information now on 
file, concluded that both of Mr Ls CCA claims were made out of time under the relevant 
provisions of the LA. He gave the same reasons as the adjudicator did in relation to the 
Section 75 claim for misrepresentation. But as Mr L had cleared his outstanding credit card 
balance in March 2007, the investigator took the view that the relevant limitation period 
started at that time.
However, as an informal resolution couldnt be found, the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 7 October 2022. In summary, I thought the CCA 
claims had been made out of time under the LA. And as Mr L had used an existing credit 
card to help pay for the purchase, I wasnt persuaded by the suggestion that he had been 
lent to irresponsibly.
In response, BoS had nothing further to add. But neither Mr L nor M responded. So, as the 
deadline for responses has been and gone, the complaint has come back to me to consider 
for a Final Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I still dont think this 
complaint should be upheld for the reasons I gave in my PD.1
Section 75: Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). It was held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2012] 
that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action founded in tort for the purposes of the 
LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr L made a like claim against BoS under Section 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for 
that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. So, this means that he had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make a claim.
The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr L entered into the 
purchase agreement. I say this because he entered into that agreement based on the 
alleged misrepresentations of the Supplier  which he relied on. And as he used his BoS 
credit card to help pay for the purchase, it was when he used that card that he suffered a 
loss.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued at the Time of Sale  which 
means that this claim had to be made within six years of that date. But as this claim wasnt 
made until October 2018, I still think its likely to have fallen outside of the time limits set out 
in the LA.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr L and BoS was 
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the Credit Agreement  which it does as Mr Ls credit card account was still open 
after 6 April 2008.
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is governed 
by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is six years from 
the date on which the cause of action accrued.
The investigator argued in his assessment that, because Section 140A is about the fairness 
of a relationship, the limitation period starts when the relationship between Mr L and BoS, 
that related to the purchase in question, came to an end. In other words, when the debt 
associated with the purchase was repaid.
1 Under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to claims under those 
provisions. And as the purchase agreement indicates that payments under that agreement had to be made to a trustee rather 
than the Supplier directly, its now possible that there was no such agreement in place following a very recent High Court 
judgment in the case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank PLC [2022]  which was issued, after my PD, on 10 October 
2022.
However, that judgment is the subject of an appeal. And, in any event, given the overall outcome I reached in my PD, I dont 
think its necessary to make a formal finding on the debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement for the purpose of this Final Decision 
because I still think BoS had and has a defence to the claims in question under the LA.But the investigator acknowledged that determining when the debt associated with the 
relevant purchase was repaid isnt straightforward because a credit card is often used to 
make a number of purchases over time and the outstanding balance each month isnt 
always paid off in full. So, he thought it was reasonable to determine the end date of the 
relevant relationship between Mr L and BoS according to the earliest point at which he had 
cleared his outstanding credit card balance in full after the purchase in question  which the 
investigator thought was on 9 March 2007. After all, once Mr L had cleared his outstanding 
credit card balance in full, he no longer owed anything to BoS as a result of the purchase. 
And any subsequent purchases simply created new relationships between the two sides.
In Canada Square Operations Ltd v Potter [2021], the Court of Appeal set out how the 
provisions of the LA apply to the unfair relationship provisions. In so doing, it relied (at
paragraph 26) on the analysis of Mr Leggatt QC (as he was then) in Patel v Patel [2009].
As Mr Leggatt QC explained:
"The critical question is: what is the relevant date at which the fairness or otherwise of the 
relationship has to be determined? In principle, it seems to me that the determination should 
be made having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters 
up to the time of making the determination. This means that if the relationship between the 
creditor and the debtor has ended, the determination should be made at the date when the 
relationship ended; and if the relationship is still ongoing, the determination should be made
as at the time of the trial".
The upshot of this dicta is that the time limit to make a Section 140A claim, for the purpose 
of the LA, only begins to run when the relationship between the creditor and debtor comes to 
an end.
However, the Court of Appeal more recently considered how the limitation period applies to 
unfair relationship claims  this time in Smith and Burrell v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2021] 
[S&B v RBS [2021]). That case concerned the claim that there was an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship due to the levels of commission paid as a result of a Payment Protection 
Insurance policy (PPI) taken to protect the repayments on a credit card.
The Court took the view that the relevant date when assessing unfairness didnt always and 
necessarily have to be the date when the debtor-creditor relationship ended (assuming that 
the relationship had ended by the time a court considered the matter). The Court thought 
that a relationship could change over time  being subject to periods of fairness and periods 
of unfairness. And for that reason, an earlier period of unfairness may not mean that the 
relationship is unfair at a later date.
As a result, Birss LJ held that the relevant relationship up until the date of the last PPI 
repayment was unfair. But once those sums had been repaid and no liability remained, the 
fact that the defendant continued to leave claimants in ignorance of the commission did not 
justify a finding that the unfairness continued, particularly when the credit agreement alone 
was not unfair. And as the claimants had failed to allege or prove that any economic effect or 
consequence of the PPI agreement persisted after the relevant sums had been repaid, the 
Court held that the unfair relationship came to an end when those sums had been repaid.
It seems to me, therefore, that while S&B v RBS [2021] leaves the longstops2 in 
Patel v Patel [2009] untouched, it can now be argued that the limitation period may start at 
an earlier date than thought possible. In other words, the limitation period can be said to start 
when the credit relating to a related agreement has been paid off, rather than only when the 
2 These are either the end of the relevant relationship or the date of trial.relevant credit agreement is formally brought to an end and the entire debtor-creditor 
relationship ends.
But that isnt necessarily the case if there is continuing financial detriment and/or ongoing 
contractual obligations that continue to render a debtor-creditor relationship unfair. And I say 
that because of what Birss LJ had to say in particular in paragraph 68:
The consequences of that unfairness in the present case will have included accruing 
a liability to make payments required by the PPI agreement and paying those sums. If 
the customer still owed sums under the credit agreement which had arisen from the PPI 
agreement but were outstanding even after the PPI agreement itself had ended, then in such 
a case the unfairness would still exist at that later stage. However once all sums due had 
been paid and no liability remained, the fact that the bank continued to leave the customer 
in ignorance of the commission well after the customer's liability to make any 
payments has ceased, does not justify the conclusion the judge reached, all the more so 
when the credit agreement alone, absent the PPI agreement, was not itself unfair. The 
relationship was unfair in January 2000 when Ms Smith entered into the PPI agreement in 
ignorance of the commission and was unfair up to April 2006 because Ms Smith was still 
obliged to and was in fact making payments to RBS of sums which only arose because of 
that PPI agreement. However the relationship changed after April 2006 because the PPI 
agreement ended. There was no case, alleged or proved, that any economic effect or 
consequence of the PPI agreement for Ms Smith persisted after April 2006 or existed in 
2015. [my emphasis added]
So, while S&B v RBS [2021] doesnt specifically consider the situation in which a debt is 
repaid but a burdensome related agreement survives, I can see an argument for saying in 
such a case that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the credit 
agreement taken with the related agreement continues to be unfair for so long as the debtor 
continues to be afflicted with fresh financial liabilities and/or contractual obligations, which 
they ought never to have assumed, because of the related agreement  unless, of course, 
the relationship between the debtor and creditor ended at an earlier date because the credit 
agreement was formally brought to an end.
With that said, when the allegations of unfairness vary, its more difficult to establish 
precisely when the alleged unfairness is likely to have ended and, in turn, when the relevant 
limitation period started and ended. And for that reason, its necessary to carry out a factual 
analysis of the relevant relationship and its fairness first before considering limitation. So, 
thats what Ive done.
Was there any ongoing unfairness after 9 March 2007?
Having considered the information available, I still havent seen enough to say that there 
were any ongoing or recurrent contractual obligations, whether or not they were financial in 
nature, that were objectionable and likely to have created an unfair relationship between 
Mr L and BoS after 9 March 2007.
As I said in my PD, it looks like Mr L had to pay annual maintenance fees as a member of 
the holiday club in question. But nothing further has been said and/or provided in response 
to my provisional findings. So, I still havent seen enough evidence to demonstrate that Mr L 
and Mrs Rs annual maintenance fees were likely to have been governed and/or operated in 
a way that could be said to have caused some unfairness between Mr L and BoS for the 
purpose of Section 140A.On my reading of S&B v RBS [2021], its possible that even perfectly reasonable contractual 
obligations could have contributed to an ongoing unfair relationship. But some of the 
allegations that are said to have given rise to an unfair relationship on this occasion arent 
relevant to such an assertion3 while the others arent accompanied by any supporting 
evidence or detailed recollections from Mr L that I find persuasive.
So, based on what Ive seen, Im still not persuaded that being party to the purchase 
agreement was a source of continuing unfairness.
As a result, once Mr L settled his outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement on 
9 March 2007, I think its unlikely a court would find that the relationship between him and 
BoS was unfair after that date as a result of the purchase in question.
The Limitation Act 1980
For the reasons set out above, I still think BoS was and is entitled to rely on the LA as a 
defence to this claim given its timing. Mr Ls asking for a refund of the payments he made as 
a result of his purchase. And that means Section 9 of the LA applies to the claim  giving 
him six years in which to make it. But as he didnt do that until October 2018, I think it was 
likely to have been made out of time under the LA.
Grounds to Extend Time
M says that the Suppliers misrepresentations were fraudulent  which Mr L could not have 
known until he was told that was the case by M. It also says that Mr L can rely on Section 32 
of the LA to extend the time available to claim.
However, I cant see why the mere fact that the Supplier may have sold the same product to 
a number of consumers who may have wanted to holiday at similar times of the year 
automatically leads to the conclusion that each and every misrepresentation (if made) 
would have been fraudulent. And based on what Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded that the 
elements necessary to make such a finding are satisfied.
And given the allegations fuelling Mr Ls claims, I still cant see any other reason why he was 
prevented from making the claims in question earlier. So, Im not persuaded that theres a 
reason why time might be extended in keeping with the provisions of the LA.
The Allegation of Irresponsible Lending
It was alleged in the Letter of Claim that the decision to lend to Mr L and Mrs R failed to go 
through a sound and proper credit assessment. M also said that there hadnt been any 
affordability checks at the Time of Sale. And Mr L and Mrs R said the same thing.
But as I said in my PD, neither Mr L nor Mrs R were lent to at the Time of Sale. Instead, Mr L 
used an existing credit card with an existing line of credit, granted to him some time before 
the Time of Sale, to help pay for the purchase. And for that reason, I still cant see why this 
allegation should succeed.
3 The Timeshare Regulations, for example, were only introduced after the purchase in question and couldnt have been
breached by the Supplier as a result.Conclusion
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not Mr Ls claims have expired under the 
LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, such claims against BoS are 
likely to have been made outside of the relevant time limit set out in the LA. And given what 
Ive said about the suggestion of irresponsible lending, Im not persuaded that BoS needs to 
do anything to put things right in this complaint.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman