DRN-3989532
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that AWP P&C SA hasnt paid a claim made on his travel insurance policy 
in full  and the time taken to handle his claim.
What happened
Mr S has the benefit of a travel insurance policy as part of his bank account (the policy). 
The policy is underwritten by AWP. Mr S had booked and paid a deposit for accommodation 
abroad to celebrate a milestone birthday. Unfortunately, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the 
booking was put back to a later date. Due to Mr Ss health, the trip didnt go ahead, and the 
accommodation was cancelled and partially refunded. 
Early in 2022, Mr S made a claim under the policy for the deposit he paid for the 
accommodation. AWP agreed to pay part of the claim towards the end of 2022. As the 
intention was to invite a number of family members to stay at the accommodation, it 
apportioned the cost of the deposit between the number of people the accommodation slept, 
and paid Mr S a monetary sum reflecting a portion of the deposit. 
Mr S didnt think that was fair because hed paid the deposit in full. Unhappy with AWPs 
decision - and the time taken to decide his claim - he complained to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended AWP pay Mr B £200 compensation 
for the way in which his claim was handled. She also recommended the claim be re-
assessed and if accepted, the outstanding deposit should be paid (as an excess had already 
been deducted under the policy terms) and simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum should 
be paid on the outstanding amount.
AWP disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I asked our investigator to 
inform the parties that if I was minded to uphold the complaint, I would be directing AWP to 
pay the remainder of the deposit (rather than reassess the claim) together with interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
The claim for deposit
The cancellation section of the policy reflects that the following is covered:
Your share of any unused non-refundable pre-booked travel and accommodation 
expenses which you have paid or are contracted to pay
AWP accepts that the trip abroad was cancelled for an insured event detailed in the terms of 
the policy. And as its paid a proportion of the deposit paid by Mr S under the policy, and Mr 
S received a partial refund of what he paid for the accommodation, I think its reasonable to 
assume that its accepted that the accommodation wasnt used, and the deposit paid was 
non-refundable. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr S paid for the deposit on his own credit card. Hes 
said that hed booked the accommodation abroad to celebrate a milestone birthday and the 
plan was to invite family members to join him; he would cover the accommodation costs and 
they would just need to pay for their flights. I find what he says to be plausible and 
persuasive. And in the absence of any compelling evidence to the contrary, I accept what he 
says about that. 
So, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Mr Ss share of the deposit paid 
for the accommodation was the full amount paid, as he was not expecting any family 
members staying with him to contribute to the cost of the accommodation (or deposit) and 
there was no obligation on anyone to do so. If any family member decided to pay for their 
flight to join him, the cost of the accommodation wouldve been met by Mr S.
As the trip didnt go ahead, Im satisfied that no-one else who may have joined Mr S on the 
trip is expected to contribute towards the deposit. 
As such, Im satisfied AWP hasnt acted fairly and reasonably by not paying Mr S the 
remainder of the deposit. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account the points made by AWP including what it 
says about other travellers being able to claim on their travel insurance for the deposit and 
that they didnt have the benefit of this particular policy.  However, Im satisfied this wasnt a 
financial loss anyone else suffered apart from Mr S  or an expense they were responsible 
for paying. 
The service received
AWP accepts that it took too long to handle Mr Ss claim. Ive seen evidence that Mr S was 
in regular contact with AWP about the progress of his claim and given that it took a number 
of months for his claim to be partially paid from the date on which he claimed under the 
policy, I can understand why he was asking for updates. I accept this wouldve caused him 
unnecessary inconvenience and the delays wouldve been frustrating. Given Mr Ss personal 
circumstances at the time, I also think the service received by AWP wouldve unnecessarily 
caused him upset at an already difficult time. 
AWP has offered £40 compensation in recognition of the service failures. However, I dont 
think this sum fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience he experienced. I think 
compensation in the sum £200 is a more reasonable reflection of this  which AWP has 
more recently agreed with. 
Putting things right
I direct AWP to pay Mr S:
- the remainder of the claim (up the value of the limit under the cancellation section of 
the policy). It has already deducted one excess under policy terms so another excess 
shouldnt be made.
- simple interest of the outstanding deposit payment at a rate of 8% per annum from the date on which the claim was made to the date on which the deposit is paid in 
full*.
- £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience (AWP can deduct the £40 
compensation it offered Mr S if this has been paid to him).
*If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.         
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman