DRN-1605985
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) have mishandled his cash 
withdrawal request.
What happened
Mr B holds an account with Natwest and wanted to withdraw £1000 in clean notes. He 
contacted Natwests customer service department and informed them of his request, and 
says he was told that they will inform his local branch and that he would receive a call back 
when the money was ready to collect. However, Mr B did not receive any response from 
Natwest, and had to contact them again, where they said another message would be passed 
on to the branch.
Mr B went to his local branch, but was unhappy to discover that the message had not been 
passed on, as some of the bank notes were not clean. He then had visit a number of 
branches in order to fulfil his request, and was also told that the bank can no longer fulfil 
such requests for new notes, which was contrary to what he had been told on the phone. 
Natwest accepted that their service and communication could have been better, so they 
offered £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she also thought the amount offered was fair 
compensation. 
Mr B didnt agree. He does not think it is reasonable for Natwest to impose an arbitrary 
practice on him at the last minute without the supposed change being communicated. He 
also feels that he is due further compensation as a result of the total number of visits he had 
to make to different branches, such that Natwest should pay a total of £150. As no 
agreement could be met, the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Mr B does not feel that the £100 offered by Natwest is commensurate to the experience he 
has had and the inconvenience he has been put to and submits he should receive further 
compensation. Ive considered the service Mr B received, and its clear that he has been left 
upset and inconvenienced by the miscommunication from Natwest. I understand it would 
have been frustrating to have to visit a number of different branches, despite having received 
assurances that his request could be fulfilled. And I also appreciate that he has had to spend 
time and money in driving/parking costs to fulfil his original request. Natwest concede that 
their service has likely caused confusion and misunderstanding. But I have to consider 
whether, in the circumstances, the £100 compensation offered by Natwest is proportionate 
to the distress and inconvenience suffered. The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of 
the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair 
compensation for distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award 
must be a proportionate reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have 
had. And in order to award further compensation to Mr B, I would have to be satisfied that 
the wrongful actions of Natwest have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience 
or upset, which I cant say it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate that the experience would have been frustrating, but such requests as the one 
made by Mr B are naturally subject to availability  although I appreciate this could have 
been made clearer by Natwest from the outset. But I dont consider the actions or omissions 
of Natwest to warrant any further compensation at a higher level. I appreciate Mr B had to 
spend money on parking charges and driving etc. But I also do not consider it would be fair 
and reasonable to direct a business to compensate their customers for all of lifes 
unexpected inconveniences, and the time they may have to devote to carrying out 
administrative tasks. And for the poor service that Mr B did receive, I consider £100 to be fair 
compensation in the circumstances. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc have made an offer to pay £100. I conclude that such an 
offer is fair compensation in all the circumstances. My decision is that Natwest should pay 
Mr B (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving his acceptance of this 
decision.
Mr B should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between Mr B and Natwest as to whether the £100 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman