DRN-4530693
The complaint
Ms G complains Zopa Bank Limited incorrectly sent her a notice of default.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known by both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, for 
these reasons:
Ms G is making her contractual monthly repayments towards her loan; however, she 
also has a repayment plan in place to clear some arrears that accrued on her 
account after she worked with Zopa to make more manageable repayments during a 
period she was experiencing financial difficulties. So shes currently also paying an 
additional £5 per month alongside her contractual payments, and the evidence Ive 
received shows that this repayment plan was renewed on 12 April 2023. However, 
despite the repayment plan being renewed on this date, and Ms G having made 
payments in line with this, Zopa sent Ms G a notice of default.
 
Zopa has acknowledged the notice of default sent to Ms G in April 2023, was issued 
mistakenly. The notice of default was generated by Zopas system on 12 April 2023, 
the same date Ms Gs £5 repayment plan was renewed. So, Im persuaded that 
Zopas final response letter correctly explained this mistake happened due to a 
cross-over in dates, and that they werent in fact intending to default Ms Gs account 
within the timeframe outlined in the notice of default.
While Im satisfied Zopa didnt intend to default Ms G account, I dont consider its 
unreasonable that Ms G would have found it distressing when she received the 
notice of default. I also consider her distress would have been exacerbated due to 
the previous issues shed experienced with Zopa incorrectly sending her 
correspondence that suggested she hadnt made her repayments on time. Ms G 
explained to Zopa that the culmination of mistakes was causing her a great deal of 
concern and frustration, so I consider Zopa needs to take steps to put things right. 
Because of this Ive had to decide what I consider to be fair in the circumstances. 
Before this case was referred to our service Zopa had offered Ms G a total of £60 for 
their mistake with the April 2023 notice of default. After reviewing matters again, they 
increased their offer to £75 when the case came to us, but Ms G didnt think this 
sufficiently recognised the distress and inconvenience shed experienced. Having 
considered Ms Gs testimony, alongside all the evidence provided by both parties, Im 
persuaded the £75 award offered by Zopa is in line with what I would have suggested 
had they not already taken steps to put things right.
As mentioned above, I agree receiving a notice of default would have been 
distressing, particularly given Ms G had been proactively working with Zopa to 
manage her account. However, I must also place weight on the fact that the letter 
was notifying her of their intention to issue a default if her arrears werent cleared by 
12 May 2023  and she received Zopas final response letter on 5 May 2023 which 
explained their mistake and that her account wouldnt be defaulted. I also cant ignore 
the fact that the notice of default didnt say Ms Gs account had already been 
defaulted and the same information shared with credit reference agencies. So, while 
I accept the worry Ms G would have experienced, she also had sufficient information 
that explained her account hadnt been defaulted before the 12 May 2023 deadline 
passed.
Ms G has told us she considers Zopas actions prevented her from getting a 
mortgage, and her concerns the default would have an impact on her employment. 
However, Ive seen no evidence that shows a default was ever issued against Ms G 
or was shared with credit reference agencies. But what I have seen are Zopas 
system notes that show a default against Ms Gs account has been blocked. 
Because of this, I consider its more likely than not that a default wasnt issued, nor 
was a default recorded with credit reference agencies. Therefore, I cant fairly 
conclude that Zopas actions had an impact on any mortgage applications Ms G may 
have made. Ms G also hasnt provided us with anything to support her assertions 
about the impact/potential impact on her employment. Im satisfied Ms G has had the 
opportunity to share any evidence and/or testimony to support her position. But as 
she hasnt been provided anything to show an impact more significant than Ive 
described above, I consider the £75 offered is a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
complaint. 
For the reasons above, Im upholding Ms Gs complaint  albeit not as shed hoped.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Ms Gs complaint against Zopa Bank Limited.
To put things right, Zopa Bank Limited should pay Ms G the £75 they offered in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience caused by their mistake.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman