DRN-3350368
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the outcome of her complaint following Shawbrook Bank Limited 
declining her claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) for some 
allegedly mis-sold solar panels.
What happened
The parties are familiar with the background to this complaint. So, I dont intend to set it out 
in detail here. Ms S is represented by a firm of solicitors. In 2014, a supplier, N, sold Ms S 
two sets of solar panels for two adjacent properties she owns. These were financed through 
a five-year fixed term loan provided by Shawbrook for a total purchase price of just over 
£11,000. The loan has now been settled in full. In total, Ms S has paid about £13,900 - 
including interest and charges.
Ms S, through her solicitors, has said that she was led to believe the panels would be self-
funding, in that they would pay for themselves. So, the loan wouldnt cost her anything. The 
solicitors have said she was told:
the system would not cost her anything and provide her with a substantial income 
over the lifetime of the PV system which is generally 25 years; and
the monthly loan instalments would be covered by the savings made on energy bills 
and the FIT [Feed-in-Tariff] payments.
It has also been alleged, amongst other things: that the system is underperforming; pressure 
sales tactics were used; and that Ms S wasnt technically or commercially sophisticated, so 
was overwhelmed by all the jargon and details given to her over the 2 hours or more that the 
salesman was there.
Shawbrook didnt give Ms S an answer to her complaint within the eight weeks required, so 
it was brought to us. Shawbrook have since apologised for the time it took to deal with the 
complaint and have offered Ms S £200 compensation for the delays. But it says that the 
evidence doesnt indicate there was a mis-sale here. It says the panels have been 
performing overall as they were predicted to have done. It says that the calculations that 
Ms S was given were clear as to the benefits she would receive. And it thinks that the 
income and savings from the panels would have clearly not been sufficient to pay for the 
loan in the five years that the solicitors contend Ms S was told.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. She found 
there had more likely than not been a misrepresentation and she recommended that the loan 
be restructured to make the panels self-funding.
The solicitors agreed to this but Shawbrook didnt. So, the matter came to me for a
decision. In advance of this final decision, I sent a provisional decision to the parties in 
which I indicated that I was minded not to uphold this complaint, as I didnt think a 
misrepresentation had been made. Shawbrook responded to say that it had nothing further 
to add. But despite us chasing up the solicitors for a reply, we didnt hear back from them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
I appreciate that Ms S will be disappointed to hear that I dont think her complaint should be 
upheld. Thats because this is a case where I dont consider that the evidence is sufficient to 
conclude that misrepresentations were made by Ns salesman. Ill explain why below.
When deciding solar panel complaints, we look at the evidence as to what a customer was 
told at the time and compare this to any written evidence available. In this case its Ms S 
case that she was told the panels would pay for themselves in five years  the same as the 
term of the loan. N says that Ms S would never have been told this and its clear from the 
paperwork that the panels wouldnt pay for themselves until much later. So, I need to 
determine whats more likely than not to have happened.
Ill first say that it was strange to see in Ms S solicitors letter of claim that they thought the 
supplier in this case was no longer trading. Whilst N was the supplier, the solicitors have 
quoted a different suppliers name. Im told N is still in business - and Shawbrook have sent 
me its thoughts on this complaint.
I also note that almost six years had passed from the sale to when Ms S complained. And 
its important to note that recollections do sometimes fade over time. Having considered 
everything, Ive concluded, on the balance of probabilities, that Ms S wasnt told that the 
panels would pay for themselves over five years.
Whilst, I dont completely rule out that Ms S may have been told something different to 
whats in the paperwork, five years for a solar panel system to pay for itself is very quick, 
whether the system is financed or not. In this case, a calculation was provided to Ms S which 
showed the potential returns over a 20-year period. N has said that this would have been 
discussed with Ms S at the sales meeting and that shed then have been sent a copy. That 
calculation estimates the benefits from the panels after five years will be around £8,500. And 
that it wont be before year eight that the savings will exceed the total cost of the loan  
around £13,900.
Ms S evidence is that she was told that the panels wouldnt cost her anything and would 
provide her with a substantial income over their expected life-span of 25 years. No mention 
is made of the five-year period, other than a statement that the monthly instalments would be 
covered by the savings and FIT. Its of course a question of interpretation, but Ms S 
statement about the panels returning her a substantial income is likely to turn out true. 
Rather than the panels underperforming, for both houses they do together appear to be 
generating around the 4,800 kWh that N predicted. And in time, this will generate a 
reasonable profit for Ms S.
There may have been some confusion in Ms S letter of claim, as I see that the solicitors 
allege her principal case is that there is an underperformance for one of the properties of 
around 31%. But the figure on the largely illegible copy MCS certificate used to determine 
this was unclear. Ive now seen a clearer copy and the actual estimated yearly 
performance for the first property was 1,273 kWh and not the 1,858 kWh that the solicitors 
used in their calculation. Our investigator calculated the actual annual generation in the first year for that property to have been around 1,400 kWh. So, it doesnt appear to have 
underperformed.
Ms S solicitors allege that the orientation of the panels on the roof is such that some of 
them are north facing. They think that this means they werent fit for purpose and so under- 
perform. Theyre also concerned that the shading on them will cause moss and lichen to 
build up, so limiting their future performance. But as Ive said above, they do appear to be 
generating electricity in accordance with the estimates given. And weve not been given 
any expert evidence that there is in fact any impedance of their predicted performance, or 
that these will cost her more as a result in terms of maintenance. So, I havent found that 
the panels here were unfit for purpose.
In her evidence, Ms S has indicated that she was interested in the environmental saving 
element of having a solar panel system as well as their cost-saving benefits. I cant know 
exactly what was discussed with Ms S back in 2014 when the panels were fitted. And it is 
of course difficult for anyone to confidently remember everything from a discussion so long 
ago.
Most solar panel systems wont pay for themselves much before 8 to 10 years  and often 
much longer. And here Ns figures indicate a period of eight years. Ms S solicitors say it 
will be 9 years for one property and 14 years for the other, although theyve not said what 
this would be on a combined basis like N did in its estimate, particularly given one 
property has a substantially larger generation than the other.
Ms S evidence is that the system wouldnt cost her anything and would give her a 
substantial income over 25 years. And it would appear on the face of it that this system 
will give her an income over that period substantially in excess of the approximately 
£13,900 total cost of the loan.
Ms S has said that she was led to believe that the cost of the loan would be met from the 
income. But given the estimated figures in the calculation provided, that Im satisfied were 
discussed with her, I think it would have been clear that the purchase price wouldnt be 
paid back within five years, let alone the interest on the loan over that period too. The costs 
of the loan are clearly set out on the loan agreement. And a simple comparison between 
the two would show that the income was insufficient to pay the monthly instalments.
In my view, this case is different to a lot of those that we see. Often customers have been 
sold a loan payable over 10 or 15 years with a significant interest element that they 
wouldnt otherwise be able to afford if the loan wasnt self-funding. Ms S has taken the loan 
out over a much shorter 5-year period. That seems to have been her choice. N says that 
Ms S would have been offered a cash purchase or finance options. And I can only assume 
that the short-term five-year finance, which would have come at a larger monthly cost to 
perhaps a 10 or 15-year loan, was an amount Ms S could afford.
Ms S appears to have been interested in the long-term savings shed get as well as 
helping to protect the environment. The loan instalments have been paid on time and it 
wasnt until after the loan had been repaid that she has complained. If shed been 
unhappy with the output of the panels and the benefits she was receiving, I would have 
expected that she might have raised this with N or Shawbrook before. So, for all of the 
above reasons, I havent found that the benefits of the panels were misrepresented to Ms 
S.
In addition to the alleged misrepresentations, Ms S solicitors also contend that N breached 
a number of codes of conduct, in particular the Renewable Energy Consumer Code and 
the Unfair Trading Regulations 2008. They claim that due to various misrepresentations made by N, Ms S is entitled to rescind her contract and get her money back. But this isnt a 
case where Ive concluded that misrepresentations were made. Given weve not been told 
the panels are no longer working, its only fair to assume that Ms S will continue to benefit 
from them for many years to come. The parties calculations both indicate that Ms S will be 
significantly in profit from the panels during their lifetime. And so I dont think any breaches 
of those codes or regulations have been made out.
Ms S solicitors are concerned that their client wasnt told about any likely maintenance 
expenses  such as the cost of replacing an inverter at least once in the systems life. But 
its not unfair to assume that a system such as this may require some maintenance. Ms S 
has the benefit of a 10-year guarantee on the panels and the inverter. And Im not aware 
that shes needed to call on that yet. N is still trading, so she no doubt will be able to take 
advantage of it should she need to for the next couple of years at least.
I understand Ms S to also have had some concerns about roof tiles that she paid for when 
the panels were first fitted. As our investigator said, theres little evidence available as to 
which tiles were already broken and which Ns fitters broke. In any event, I understand that 
the tiles were replaced at the time by N for no additional labour cost. And no record 
remains of the price that Ms S paid for the tiles themselves. So, theres nothing here for 
which I could hold Shawbrook responsible in any event.
So, in conclusion, Ive not found that N misrepresented the benefits of the system to Ms S. 
The system does appear to be performing as expected. And Ive not found any other 
reason why this complaint should be upheld. So, theres nothing that Shawbrook need to 
take responsibility for under Section 75 of the Act.
Shawbrook has acknowledged that there was an unreasonable delay in it giving Ms S an 
outcome for her claim and has offered £200 for the distress and inconvenience that this will 
have caused her. Thats not a complaint that Im considering here, although I do think that 
sum is fair compensation for the delays and will still expect Shawbrook to pay that amount
should my findings remain the same when I hear back from the parties.
As the parties havent provided any further evidence or submissions, I see no reason to 
change the findings from my provisional decision, which I adopt in full in this final decision. I 
also expect Shawbrook to keep its offer of £200 compensation for the delays in dealing with 
her complaint open, should Ms S wish to accept this.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman