DRN-2863423
The complaint
Miss K complains that Vitality Corporate Services Limited (trading as VitalityLife) avoided a 
joint life assurance policy that she held with her late partner, Mr H, and declined the death 
benefit claim she made following his passing. Miss K is also dissatisfied with the service she 
received during the claim process. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In May 2019 Miss K and Mr H took out a life assurance policy  providing £200,000 
decreasing cover over a 22-year term  with VitalityLife via an independent financial adviser.
Mr H sadly passed away in June 2020 and so Miss K made a claim under the policy. 
VitalityLife wrote to Miss K on 9 September 2020 explaining that Mr H had failed to disclose 
his medical history when he applied for the policy. They said had they known he had a 
history of raised blood pressure and also excessive alcohol intake then they wouldve 
declined his application for cover. VitalityLife avoided the policy from inception, declined the 
death benefit claim and confirmed premiums would be refunded. 
Miss K complained to VitalityLife, raising concerns about the level of service she received 
during the claim process and also after the decision was made to avoid the policy. This 
included - but wasnt limited to  delays in the claim process, poor communication/updates, 
errors in refunding of premiums and misinformation being provided to her. 
VitalityLifes position on the claim outcome remained the same. But they accepted there had 
been claim handling delays, that theyd incorrectly referred to Miss K asking them to 
reconsider the claim outcome (prior to it actually being made) and that theyd refunded the 
premiums back to the wrong bank account. To recognise the service issues, they arranged 
to pay Miss K £150 compensation.
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it and she 
thought VitalityLife had acted fairly by avoiding the policy and returning the premiums. This 
was because she agreed with VitalityLife that there had been a qualifying misrepresentation 
and that it was deliberate or reckless. She said this meant VitalityLife were entitled to avoid 
the policy and retain the premiums. And so, by returning the premiums Miss K had received 
a more favourable outcome. Our investigator however thought the compensation for the poor 
service Miss K received should be increased by £200, to £350 in total. She considered this 
would more fairly reflect the trouble and upset Miss K suffered when she was most 
vulnerable. 
VitalityLife agreed to the investigators recommendation but Miss K did not. The complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
VitalityLife thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation by 
failing to disclose he had a history of raised blood pressure and also excessive alcohol 
intake.
Ive looked at the question Mr H was asked in respect of his alcohol intake:
Lifestyle
 Drinking Habits
 
 Have you ever been advised to reduce your alcohol intake because you were 
drinking too heavily?
Im satisfied Mr H was asked a clear question by VitalityLife to which he answered no. 
Mr Hs medical records however show that in October 2018 he was given alcohol cessation 
advice, underwent a liver function test (with a recommendation to review again in three 
months time) and prescribed medication. Given this was only seven months prior to the 
application, I think Mr H ought reasonably to have remembered this when applying for cover. 
It follows that I dont think Mr H took reasonable care when answering the above question. 
VitalityLife has provided their underwriting criteria which shows if Mr H had told them he had 
been given advice to reduce his alcohol intake then they wouldnt have been able to offer 
him cover. This means Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
VitalityLife has said Mr Hs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. Ive carefully 
considered this and while I dont necessarily think Mr H intended to deliberately mislead 
VitalityLife, I think he was reckless in doing so. This is because, as Ive explained, I think he 
ought to have remembered the advice he received to reduce his alcohol intake given it 
happened only seven months prior. And I think it wouldve been particularly memorable to 
him as he underwent a liver function test and was also prescribed medication at that time. 
CIDRA doesnt differentiate between deliberate or reckless in respect of the remedies an 
insurer can take in instances of mis-representation. And so, as Im satisfied Mr Hs 
misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless, Ive looked at the actions 
VitalityLife can take in accordance with CIDRA. It says in the event of a deliberate or 
reckless misrepresentation, an insurer can avoid the policy and keep the premiums that 
have been paid. They also dont have to pay the claim as the policy effectively never existed. Im therefore satisfied VitalityLife was entitled to avoid the life assurance policy and decline 
the death benefit claim. But I consider they acted fairly by refunding the premiums paid as, 
under CIDRA, they werent required to do so. Theyve therefore provided a more favourable 
outcome here. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, 
I think allowing VitalityLife to rely on it to avoid the policy produces a fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint.
I have however looked at the level of service Miss K received from VitalityLife when making 
the claim and also after they decided to avoid the policy. At which point, Id like to say that I 
dont underestimate how difficult a time it mustve been for Miss K following Mr Hs passing. 
And Id like to assure Miss K that Ive taken into consideration the impact she says this 
experience had on her. I understand Miss Ks health suffered during this time and Im very 
sympathetic to her circumstances. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that the service Miss K received from VitalityLife fell short. 
VitalityLife accept this and offered £150 compensation to recognise it. But I agree with our 
investigator that this amount isnt enough as I dont think it reflects the impact on Miss K. I 
think being told incorrect information about the claim, having the premiums refunded to the 
wrong account (in Mr Hs name) and the lack of communication/updates wouldve been very 
stressful for Miss K. That said, I also have to be mindful that any claim of this nature will be 
particularly emotional and difficult for the claimant. 
I understand Miss K is particularly dissatisfied with the length of time it took to consider the 
claim as she feels VitalityLife couldve told her from the outset that they would be declining it. 
I appreciate Miss Ks frustration here but, given the importance of the matter, its reasonable 
for insurers to acquire further information such as medical history when assessing a claim. 
This is to ensure they make the correct claim decision. And although VitalityLife exceeded 
their timescales when assessing the medical information, I dont think they did so 
deliberately. Nor do I think they took an overly excessive time to assess the evidence  
particularly given the importance of the matter. 
I know Miss K may feel differently but, after taking everything in to consideration, I think the 
increase of compensation to £350 in total is reasonable. I think it more fairly reflects the poor 
service she received.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Vitality Corporate Services Limited to pay Miss K £350 compensation. If Vitality 
Corporate Services Limited has already paid £150, then they need only pay a further £200 to 
Miss K. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman