DRN-2539062
The complaint
Mrs X complains about how Esure Insurance Limited handled and settled a claim she made 
under her home insurance policy following an escape of water.
What happened
On 4 August 2020 Mrs X incepted a buildings and contents home insurance policy with 
Esure. At around that time a copy of the policy terms and schedule were made available to 
her.
On 27 September 2020 Mrs X said she experienced an escape of water from her bathroom 
into her kitchen, which was caused when she filled her bath. She said after filling her bath 
she attempted to turn off the hot and cold-water taps. But the cold-water tap stuck, before 
breaking off, and the bath overflowed. This caused water to escape downstairs into Mrs Xs 
kitchen resulting in damage to her ceiling and various contents within that room.
Mrs X reported the escape of water to Esure as she wanted to make a claim under her 
policy. She completed an online claim form confirming the circumstances in which the 
escape of water had occurred. 
After becoming aware of Mrs Xs claim, Esure appointed a building surveyor, B, to attend 
her property in order to validate the claim and assess the cause of the damage. B attended 
Mrs Xs property on 12 October 2020. 
B told Esure that it thought the damage it had observed wasnt consistent with a one-off 
escape of water event. It said there was evidence of a previous repair to the tap that had 
broken. And it believed the damage had occurred prior to the policy inception  taking place 
over a period of months if not years. So, it recommended that Esure repudiate the claim. But 
Mrs X said the surveyor that attended her property informed her that her claim would be 
approved and settled in the sum of £1088 during the site visit.
Based on the report Esure received from B it notified Mrs X it was repudiating her claim. But 
she complained that it had dealt with her claim unfairly  unreasonably reversing the 
decision B had made that her claim would be met. She refuted the suggestion that her tap 
had been previously repaired. And she also said the call handlers shed discussed her claim 
with were rude and lacked empathy  causing her unnecessary distress. 
On 11 November 2020 Esure issued its final response to Mrs Xs complaint. It explained that 
B didnt have authority to say whether or not a claim would be covered. And it said, having 
spoken with B, the surveyor that attended Mrs Xs property said theyd only advised her on 
how claims were assessed. Esure also informed Mrs X that gradual damage was excluded 
by her policy. So, it didnt think it had made an error in declining her claim. It did, however, 
acknowledge that Mrs X may have misunderstood what B had told her during its site visit. 
So, it paid her £100 compensation to recognise that.
Being dissatisfied with how Esure had dealt with her complaint, Mrs X referred it to our 
service. Our investigator empathised with Mrs X but didnt recommend upholding her 
complaint. They thought Esure had acted fairly and reasonably in repudiating Mrs Xs claim. 
And they didnt think it needed to do anything further. They also thought that the £100 
compensation it had paid Mrs X was appropriate. But Mrs X didnt agree with our 
investigators view and asked an ombudsman to decide her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see Mrs X and Esure have gone 
to some trouble to provide our service with some very detailed submissions. I want to assure 
them that Ive read everything theyve sent us. I hope theyll understand if I dont address 
every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is 
key to the complaint.
I can see that Mrs X has asked to speak to me before I issue my decision. While I can 
understand why she may want this, its my role to consider all of the information and 
circumstances before making a final decision. Here, Im satisfied that I have enough 
information to do this without needing to speak to Mrs X. The information I have is clear and 
I dont need any more to be able to reach a decision.
Id like to say at the outset that Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs X. I can 
appreciate why shes disappointed that Esure has declined to settle her claim for 
damage. But my role is to assess whether I think it made a mistake, or treated Mrs X 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And Ill explain why Im not 
persuaded its done that here.
Theres no dispute that extensive water damage occurred to Mrs Xs property. 
However, theres a disagreement between her, Esure and its appointed agent about 
when the damage took place and the correct outcome of this claim. 
Mrs X would like Esure to cover the damage to her property because she believes it 
was caused by an escape of water. Her policy with Esure covers damage caused in 
this manner. But, for a claim to be accepted under this peril, the onus is on Mrs X to 
show that any damage shes claiming for was the result of a one-off escape of water. 
This policy was taken out on 4 August 2020. Under the terms and conditions of Mrs 
Xs policy, for a claim to succeed the date of the event must be on or after the policy 
inception date. Here, the date of the event is the date the escape of water took place.
Mrs X said the escape of water happened on 27 September 2020. But B believes it 
pre-dates the policy inception due to the condition of the property. And it says it found 
evidence that Mrs Xs tap had been previously repaired, which further supports its 
opinion that the damage pre-dated the policy inception. While Mrs X disputes this, 
she hasnt provided any evidence to our service that contradicts what B has said 
about the condition of her tap. 
 
Ive carefully considered the photographs B took of Mrs Xs property. But Im not 
persuaded the damage Ive seen has occurred as a result of a one-off escape of 
water. Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, I think Mrs Xs bathroom and kitchen ceiling show evidence of 
wear and tear. The condition of Mrs Xs bathroom is poor and the bath sealant shows signs of significant deterioration. The water staining and peeling on the kitchen ceiling 
is extensive, which persuades me that water has been escaping from Mrs Xs 
bathroom gradually over a period of time. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs X but Im not 
satisfied the damage Ive seen is consistent with a one-off escape of water. 
Where damage has been caused gradually our approach would be to determine 
whether Mrs X ought reasonably to have been aware of the damage occurring. Here, 
given the extent of the damage Ive seen, I think the escape of water should have 
been evident sooner.
Under the terms of Mrs Xs policy, Esure is entitled to repudiate a claim where loss or 
damage happens as a result of wear and tear, a lack of maintenance or where it 
occurs gradually over time. Mrs X might think this is unfair but such exclusions are in 
common with most home insurance policies because insurance is intended to cover 
the unforeseen.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Esure has shown our 
service reliable evidence to demonstrate that the water damage has occurred 
gradually. Mrs X hasnt provided our service with an independent report on the cause 
of the damage. And she hasnt shown our service that the damage occurred as a 
result of a one-off escape of water, which is what her policy requires under this peril.
After weighing up the available evidence, I dont think Esure acted reasonably in 
concluding that the damage Mrs X reported pre-dated the inception of her policy. I 
therefore think it applied the terms of her policy reasonably in declining this claim. 
And this means it would be unfair to require Esure to pay this claim.
Ill turn now to Mrs Xs concerns regarding the service she received from B and Esure 
after she made her claim. 
Mrs X has complained that Bs surveyor failed to practice social distancing or observe 
pandemic approved safety measures during their site visit. But, as our investigator 
explained, this issue wasnt raised as part of Mrs Xs original complaint. So, I cant 
consider Mrs Xs concerns about this until Esure has had an opportunity to 
investigate. I can see our investigator has recommended Mrs X raise a new 
complaint with Esure about this issue, which I think is good advice
Mrs X has stated that Bs surveyor informed her that her claim would be settled 
during their site visit. But B disputes that and said it had simply explained the claims 
process to her. I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that B told Mrs X her 
claim would be met by Esure. And, as it didnt have delegated authority to decide 
whether a claim would be settled, I think its unlikely it would have done this. 
I can see that Esure has recognised that Mrs X may have been confused by the 
discussion she had with B at her property. And its paid her £100 compensation to 
reflect that. Im satisfied that amount fairly reflects the overall trouble and upset Mrs X 
would have been caused. Its in line with awards made by this service in comparable 
circumstances and I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a higher 
award is warranted here. 
Mrs X told our service that Esure acted unfairly in investigating her claim. Shes 
argued that if it wasnt intending to meet her claim, after she submitted an online 
claim form, it should have declined it immediately. And she said it shouldnt have 
appointed B as this gave her a false expectation that it was minded to settle her 
claim. But Esures procedure is that, after being notified of loss and damage, it will appoint B to assess and validate a policy holders claim. It followed that process here. 
And I havent seen anything to suggest that Esure gave false hope to Mrs X that her 
claim would be met.
Mrs X stated that when she contacted Esure to discuss the status of her claim call 
handlers were rude and lacking in empathy. In view of this, Ive listened to the call 
recordings Esure provided our service regarding discussions Mrs X had with it about 
her claim. But, like our investigator, Im persuaded that the call handlers Mrs X spoke 
with behaved professionally and courteously throughout. I also think Mrs X was given 
a clear explanation of why Esure had declined this claim.
Mrs X has told our investigator she doesnt believe all call recordings that are 
relevant to this complaint have been provided to our service. But Im satisfied the call 
recordings weve received are sufficient to assist me in deciding this complaint.
I understand that Esure cancelled Mrs Xs policy at her request. It refunded her 
unused premiums and waived its cancellation fee. I think this demonstrates that its 
acted fairly here. And, while Mrs X believes this shows Esure assessed her claim 
incorrectly, I dont agree. 
I understand that Mrs X feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything shes said. But, based on what Ive seen, I think Esure acted 
fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr Xs claim. So, Im not going to tell it to do 
anything further.
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mrs Xs dispute with Esure informally, 
can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Mrs X any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs X to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman