DRN-4368716
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) service, following a claim under 
her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs H held a policy with Aviva, she contacted them as she could hear gushing water. It sent 
an engineer to investigate further. He couldnt locate a leak and wrote a report indicating 
this. Mrs H felt that the engineer wasnt very helpful and didnt alleviate her concerns.
Mrs H said that as she could here gushing water again, she contacted Aviva. She was 
concerned that there mightve been a sink hole developing. It sent a further engineer who 
checked the drains and found nothing leaking. 
A short while later, Mrs H contacted Aviva again as the issue she said hadnt been resolved. 
It appears there were a few appointments that were missed but eventually another engineer 
did attend. That engineer also couldnt find a leak nor could he find any blockages in the 
drains. 
Mrs H complained to Aviva as the issue hadnt been resolved, as well as the missed 
appointments and poor service she said she received. In its final response, Aviva said that it 
had complied with Mrs Hs policy terms and conditions by sending engineers to investigate 
the issue. But as none of the engineers found either a leak or a blockage, there was nothing 
further it could do regarding this. But it did accept that there was some poor service issues 
during the claims process. And for this it offered and paid, £150 compensation for the trouble 
and upset this caused. 
Mrs H was given her referral rights and as she remained unhappy with the outcome, she 
referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and 
thought it shouldnt be upheld. She said that Aviva had explored all of Mrs Hs concerns as 
per the policy terms and conditions. She also said that the compensation that Aviva awarded 
for the distress and inconvenience caused, due to the poor service issues, was in line with 
our services guidelines on compensation. So, there was nothing further she could 
reasonably ask Aviva to do. 
Aviva accepted the view, Mrs H did not. She said that after eight months Aviva hadnt 
resolved the issue with the leak at her property. She said that her patio had shifted, and this 
had been confirmed by each of the engineers who attended. She also said that the 
compensation awarded and paid had no bearing on the emergency callout, but on the 
cancellations that occurred. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs H, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, terms and conditions of the policy and the evidence 
both parties have provided. I think the main issue of this complaint is whether Aviva 
complied with the policy terms and conditions, in dealing with Mrs Hs home emergency.
Mrs H said that she could hear the sound of gushing water. She believed that a sink hole 
was developing and contacted Aviva. The policy she held with Aviva provided the following 
cover: 
Leaking pipes within your home  Blocked drains  Let us help to keep life worry-free with  
Plumbing and Drainage Plus  Blockages to sinks and toilets  Leaks and blockages to your 
water supply pipe  Dripping or seized taps.
So, I think the cover Mrs H held was for Aviva to assist in incidents that caused blockages or 
leaks (among other things). Where a policyholder finds this in their home, Aviva will deploy 
an engineer to investigate further and resolve the issue. 
Aviva, as far as I can see, sent three engineers to investigate the issue that Mrs H reported. I 
have been provided with the engineers reports. And they state as follows:
29th December 2022: Service engineer Clive deployed, customer got up at 3am to get glass 
of water and said he heard a rushing of water noise. Checked shared supply, no noise on 
supply.
8th February 2023: Attended site for leak. Checked drains and nothing leaking. 
23rd February 2023: Attended site to investigate blocked drains. No signs of blockages on 
inspection. All amenities are free flowing. Customer has experienced noises of water 
gushing at night.
 
From this evidence, I cant see that either engineer found a leak or a blockage. I should 
mention that Mrs H also didnt report seeing evidence of a leak or blockage. I havent been 
provided with enough evidence from Mrs H which contradicts Avivas engineers reports. 
And as the engineers are considered by our service as experts in their field, I cant agree 
that Aviva was unreasonable to rely upon the expert opinion of the engineers, who found 
that there was no leak or blockage that required fixing. 
Accordingly, I think that Aviva acted fairly and in line with Mrs Hs policy terms and 
conditions. I find that it sent engineers to investigate the issue, as it was required under the 
policy. And as no leak or blockage was found, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to 
rely on the engineers conclusions.
Aviva has accepted that there were incidents of poor service during the claims process. 
These, Mrs H said related to missed appointments and the behaviour of the first engineer. I 
must say that any home emergency is going to involve a homeowner in some inconvenience 
including, almost inevitably, taking time off work for an engineer to come in and put things 
right. However, I do agree that Aviva couldve handled things better. 
I understand that Mrs H would like a higher amount of compensation awarded for the trouble 
and upset caused. Our service has strict guidelines on awards of compensation. And whilst I 
accept there were incidents of poor service, having reviewed our guidelines, Im satisfied that its error caused Mrs H more than the levels of frustration and annoyance you might 
reasonably expect, and the impact was more than just minimal. Consequently, Im satisfied 
that the amount of compensation paid by Aviva is in line with our services guidance on 
compensation awards. So, I wont be asking it to increase this further. 
I acknowledge Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why she 
referred it to our service. I understand that my findings are likely to be a disappointment to 
Mrs H. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to 
show that Aviva acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman