DRN-3733630
The complaint
Mr W complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) after several months, failed to 
retrieve an international payment that wasnt received by the beneficiary.
What happened
Mr W says in early June 2022 he sent an international payment for £800 but it was not 
received by the beneficiary. Mr W says he made a second payment to the beneficiary, and 
this has caused him some financial difficulty. Mr W says Nationwide have not managed to 
recall the payment despite his request for them to do so, at the end of June 2022. Mr W feels 
Nationwide havent taken the steps necessary to retrieve his funds and wants it to refund his 
account with the missing payment. 
Nationwide says the intermediary bank have said it held the payment for compliance checks 
and Mr W was advised of this and he then instructed Nationwide to recall the funds, but to 
date it hasnt received the monies back from the intermediary bank. Nationwide says it hasnt 
made any errors and chased the intermediary on several occasions in an attempt to recall 
the monies. Nationwide says it has paid Mr W £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Nationwide had carried out reasonable attempts to recover the payment and 
he couldnt ask them to do anything more. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been worrying for Mr W to learn the international payment he 
originally made wasnt received by the beneficiary, and then to spend several months trying 
to chase its return. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Nationwide were at fault for the international 
payment not being received by the beneficiary initially and if it could have done more to 
assist in the retrieval of the payment.
Mr Ws complaint centres around the fact Nationwide were at fault in not being able to recall 
the international payment he sent in June 2022. 
From the information I have seen the payment made by Mr W was correctly sent to the 
intended recipient, but this was held up by the intermediary bank in the US for compliance 
checks. I can also see that the intermediary bank requested further information regarding the 
payment and when this was requested by Nationwide, Mr W asked for the payment to be 
recalled. I also understand Mr W made a second payment to the beneficiary, when the first 
payment hadnt arrived. 
Its worth saying here that international payments like this cant be stopped or cancelled 
once it has been instructed and this is explained under Nationwides Overseas and foreign 
currency payments terms and conditions. So here when Mr W asked Nationwide to recall the 
payment, this was only on  a best endeavours basis, and it would have been reliant on the 
intermediary bank in the US to action the request. 
What happened here was Nationwide sent a tracer on the payment in mid-June 2022 as 
requested  initially by Mr W and followed this up with numerous requests to the intermediary 
bank for the return of the funds. It has since been discovered the beneficiary has received 
the payment but has refused to provide the authority to return it. 
While I can understand Mr Ws frustrations here, its fair to say the international payment 
was correctly sent and when Nationwide was asked to trace it and subsequently recall the 
payment, I can see Nationwide acted promptly and sent regular communications to the 
intermediary bank.  
So, without trying to minimise the upset this would have undoubtedly caused Mr W here, I 
am satisfied Nationwide have tried to help with the recall of the payment but sadly that has 
not been possible. 
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Nationwide. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman