DRN-2778187
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc approved her for two credit card accounts, 
both of which were unaffordable for her at the time of the applications.
What happened
Miss M applied for a Capital One credit account in January 2018. The application was 
approved, and Miss M was given a credit account with a credit limit of £200.
In February 2019, Miss M applied for a second Capital One credit card account. This second 
application was also approved, and Miss M was given a second credit account, this time with 
a credit limit of £500.
In November 2020, Miss M raised a complaint with Capital One on the basis that they 
shouldnt have approved either of the credit accounts that she had applied for because they 
were both unaffordable for her at those times.
Capital One looked at Miss Ms complaint, but they felt that they had undertaken sufficient 
checks into Miss Ms financial circumstances at the time of the applications, and that there 
had been nothing in those checks that had caused them to consider that the credit accounts 
that Miss M had applied for wouldnt have been affordable for her at those times. So, they 
didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Capital One 
had conducted reasonable checks into Miss Ms financial circumstances which hadnt 
highlighted anything that should have given Capital One cause for concern. So, they also 
didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide if it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much and what 
terms. What this service would expect would be that the business would conduct reasonable 
and proportionate checks into the financial position of the customer at the time of an 
application so as to be sure that the credit being offered was affordable for that customer at 
that time.
I think that, on both occasions, Capital One did that here. They gathered information about 
Miss Ms income and expenditure to ensure that Miss M had enough disposable monthly 
income to be able to reasonably cover the potential credit account repayments. And they 
also undertook a check of Miss Ms credit file to get an understanding of Miss Ms wider 
financial circumstances.
Miss M has stated that it should have been apparent from her credit file that, at the time of 
both credit account applications, she was experiencing financial difficulties such that the 
credit accounts should have been considered unaffordable for her.
But having reviewed Miss Ms credit file, I find it difficult to reach the same conclusion as 
Miss M here. And I say this because at the time of both applications, while Miss M did have 
other lending, her credit file demonstrates that the amount of other lending wasnt excessive, 
and also that Miss M was making the necessary payments toward the other lending so that 
those accounts were up to date. 
In addition, Miss Ms credit file doesnt demonstrate any instances of account defaults or 
missed payments that might reasonably have given Capital One cause to suspect that she 
might be experiencing financial difficulties at the time of the applications.
Miss M has stated that, had Capital One undertaken a review of her bank statements, it 
would have been apparent from these that she was in financial difficulty. But Capital One 
were obliged to undertake checks that are reasonable and proportionate, in consideration of 
the amount of credit being applied for. And, given the relatively low amounts of credit being 
applied for in these instances, Im not convinced that it would have been proportionate for 
Capital One to have undertaken a review of Miss Ms bank statements in these instances. 
And I would usually only expect such a review to be undertaken when the amount of credit 
being applied for is considerably higher.
All of which means that its difficult to conclude that Capital One acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by approving Miss L for the credit accounts that she applied for. And Im 
satisfied that Capital One undertook reasonable and proportionate checks into Miss Ms 
financial circumstances before approving those applications.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Capital One to take any 
further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss M was wanting 
here, but I hope that she can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I 
have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman