DRN-1237153
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined his claim made under 
the home emergency part of his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C contacted Admiral because water was escaping from an external overflow pipe. 
Admiral turned down the claim because it did not assess that it was an emergency.
Mr C complained to Admiral. As a result, Admiral agreed to pay the claim as it now thought 
the claim could have been dealt with under the terms of the policy and that the policy 
wording wasnt clear enough. As Mr C had already repaired the toilet himself, Admiral said it 
would pay Mr Cs repair costs if he provided a receipt.
Mr C remained unhappy. So, Admiral reviewed its decision again. The new case reviewer 
overturned Admirals previous decision and said the claim wasnt covered. This was because 
the original reviewer hadnt taken into account how the claim had been described when Mr C 
reported it. However, as a gesture of goodwill, Admiral offered to refund the cost of the repair 
and pay £30 in compensation for the confusion caused.
Mr C complained to this service. He said that Admiral should have paid the claim under the 
terms of the policy. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that although 
the wording in the policy could have been clearer, overall the outcome was fair.
As Mr C did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy defines an emergency as:
A sudden and unforeseen incident in your home which immediately:
Exposes you or a third party to a risk to health or;
Creates a risk of loss or damage to your home and/or any of your belongings or;
Makes your home uninhabitable
In the section on what is covered, the plumbing section specifies that leaks from a toilet are 
included as well as leaks from the internal section of the overflow pipe. The plumbing 
section also specifies that the following is not covered:
Replacing external overflows, cylinders, hot and cold water storage tanks, radiators, 
immersion tanks and sanitary ware including sinks and basin.
Admiral assessed whether the claim was covered by the policy on the basis of what Mr C 
described over the phone. Ive listened to that phone call. Mr C said that water was escaping 
from an external overflow pipe caused by the toilet cistern overfilling. Mr C was concerned 
that the external leak would impact his home more widely. Mr C also confirmed that the leak 
was clear water and had no sewage in it and that there was another toilet in the house.
Ive thought about whether what Mr C described met the definition of an emergency. I cant 
see that the external overflow caused a risk to health, given it was clear water, or that it 
made Mr Cs home uninhabitable. Although I can understand that Mr C thought the leak 
would potentially damage his home, for it to be an emergency it had to immediately create 
risk of loss or damage, which isnt what Mr C described. Im therefore satisfied that it didnt 
meet the definition of an emergency. Mr C also described it as a leak from an external 
overflow pipe, but the policy said it only covered the internal section of overflow pipes. So, 
on the basis of all of the above, I am satisfied that it was reasonable for Admiral to turn down 
the claim.
Im aware that Mr C is unhappy that at one stage Admiral said it should have paid the claim 
and then changed its mind and said it wasnt covered. Because of the confusion caused, as 
a gesture of goodwill, Admiral offered to refund the cost of the repair, subject to Mr C 
providing a receipt, and to pay £30 compensation. In the circumstances, I think this was 
reasonable. Admiral has confirmed that the offer is still available if he now wants to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman