DRN-3540316
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim made on her travel
insurance policy.
What happened
In or around January 2020, Mrs H took out a single trip Backpacker & Longstay travel
insurance policy, underwritten by URV (the policy). The policy covered the period 12
February to 12 May 2020. Around the same time, Mrs H booked return flights to a country Ill 
refer to A, departing the UK on 19 February 2020. She was due to return to the UK a couple 
of months later.
Whilst abroad, Mrs H received notification that her return flight had been changed and shed
been booked on a flight from A to the UK a couple of days later than scheduled. The
rearranged flight was subsequently cancelled by the airline as were a number of return
flights which Mrs H subsequently rebooked through the same airline.
When a return flight dated mid-June 2020 was cancelled towards the end of May 2020, Mrs
H booked a return flight with a different airline for 7 June 2020, which she says cost her over
£1,750. Mrs H subsequently made a claim on the policy for cost of the return flight  which
URV declined. It said that the circumstances which led to the claim werent covered under
the policy.
Unhappy, Mrs H complained to URV. It maintained its position. So, Mrs H referred her
complaint to our service. Our investigator said URV hadnt fairly considered Mrs Hs claim 
under the trip disruption section of the policy. In her view the Covid-19 pandemic was a 
major incident as defined by the trip disruption section of the policy, as it amounted to an act 
of nature. Our investigator recommended URV review the claim under the trip disruption 
section of the policy in light of the remaining policy terms and conditions.
URV disagreed. So, Mrs Hs complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh to 
decide. I issued my provisional decision in May 2022 explaining in more detail why I was 
also intending to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further 
comments or information. Theyve both confirmed they have nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
URV has an obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline an insurance claim.
Curtailment claim
Pages 32 and 33 of the policy terms and conditions (entitled: if you had to cut your trip
short) set out the section on curtailment. It says it will provide cover for certain costs if:
You had to cut short your trip because the following unexpectedly happened after
you left home:
- you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business colleague, or the
person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
- your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
- you, or a travel companion were quarantined, or called for jury service or required
as a witness in a court of law;
- you, or a travel companion were made redundant;
- you, or a travel companion, have leave withdrawn and is a member of the armed
forces (including reserves and territorial), emergency services, medical or nursing
professions (in the public sector) or senior employees of the government;
- the Foreign and Commonwealth Office advise against all but essential travel
within a 30 mile radius of your trip destination.
Natural disaster is defined as:
volcanic eruption, flood, tsunami, earthquake, landslide, hurricane, tornado or
wildfire
Mrs H ended up returning to the UK after shed originally intended. So, I dont think the trip
was cut short. As such, I dont think URV has unfairly and unreasonably concluded that there
wasnt cover for Mrs Hs claim under this section of the policy.
Trip disruption claim
Pages 22 and 23 of the policy terms and conditions (entitled: if a major incident happens
when you are away) set out the section on trip disruption. It says:
If your trip was disrupted due to a major incident.
This is what we will do:
We will pay you up to:
- £1,000 for reasonable additional travel expenses to enable you to return home,
or move to a safer area.
- £100 for each 24-hour period for up to a maximum of £700 for additional
accommodation.
- £30 for each 24-hour period for food up to a maximum of £210.
- £150 for the emergency replenishment of baby essentials or prescription
medication, if your existing supplies run out during the period that you are
delayed.
It also confirms that the deductible amount is £150 per person, per incident.
Trip in this section is defined as: travel during the period of insurance.
Mrs H bought the policy around January 2020. She booked the trip around the same time.
And the trip began on or around 19 February 2020. So, Im satisfied that Mrs H travelled on
the outbound flight from the UK during the period of insurance.
URV has said that the Mrs Hs trip wasnt disrupted; merely extended.
The section provides cover if Mrs Hs trip was disrupted due to a major incident. Disrupted
isnt defined by the policy. However, Im satisfied that the reason why her flights back to the
UK were cancelled by the airline on a number of occasions was due to the global impact of
Covid-19. And as this was out of Mrs Hs control  and as Ive seen nothing to indicate thatshe wanted to extend her trip - Im satisfied that Mrs H having her trip extended amounted to
her trip being disrupted. Afterall, it meant that she was unable to travel back to the UK on the
date she had intended. There were also restrictions in place in A at the time, restricting
everyones ability to freely move around and partake in certain activities.
Although Mrs H ended up returning to the UK after the period of insurance ended  as set
out in the insurance schedule  I think its fair and reasonable in this case to conclude that
this was for reasons wholly outside of her control and that the trip disruption section of the
policy is applicable to the claim she made. The reason she couldnt return is due to the
unprecedented impact of Covid-19 on global travel and Im satisfied that its fair and
reasonable to consider that shes covered by the policy in the circumstances of this case. Im
also satisfied that she was making reasonable attempts to return to the UK.
So, the key issue for me to determine is whether the underlying reason for Mrs Hs trip being
disrupted - the Covid-19 pandemic - can fairly and reasonably be said to amount to a major
incident.
Under the trip disruption section of the policy, major incident is defined as:
war, invasion, acts of foreign enemy, hostilities or warlike operation (whether war be
declared or not), civil war, mutiny, military rising, insurrection, rebellion, revolution,
military or usurped power, climatic conditions, volcanic eruption and other acts of
nature which first arise during your trip
The phrase other acts of nature isnt defined under the policy. And in the absence of the
phrase being defined, Ive carefully considered whether URV has fairly and reasonably
concluded that this phrase doesnt include a virus pandemic.
For the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think it has.
The dictionary definition
Ive looked at the definition of nature in the Cambridge English Dictionary. Although not
definitive, I think its relevant that nature is defined as all the animals, plants, rocks, etc. in
the world and all the features, forces, and processes that happen or exist independently of
people, such as the weather, the sea, mountains, the production of young animals or plants,
and growth.
So, the dictionary definition doesnt expressly include a microscopic virus. However, I think
the definition  taken as a whole  is wide enough to include it. Im satisfied that a virus is
organic material that invades living cells and uses its chemical machinery to exist and to
replicate itself. As such, a virus could be viewed as part of the natural world. And given that
the policy doesnt define nature or other acts of nature, I dont think the policy contradicts
the dictionary definition of nature.
The legal position
Investors Compensation Scheme Limited v West Bromwich Building Society and Others is
relevant caselaw which sets out several principles for the construction of contracts (the
principles). They include:
-Interpretation is the ascertainment of the meaning which the document would convey
to a reasonable person having all the background knowledge which would
reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in which they were at
the time of the contract.-That background knowledge is subject to the requirement that it should have been
reasonably available to the parties and that it is not part of previous negotiations
between the parties. It includes anything which would have affected the way in which
the language of the document would have been understood by a reasonable person.
-The meaning which a document (or any other utterance) would convey to a
reasonable person is not the same thing as the meaning of its words. The meaning of
words is a matter of dictionaries and grammars; the meaning of the document is what
the parties using those words against the relevant background would reasonably
have been understood to mean.
-The rule that words should be given their natural and ordinary meaning reflects
the common sense proposition that we do not easily accept that people have made
linguistic mistakes, particularly in formal documents. On the other hand, if one would
nevertheless conclude from the background that something must have gone wrong
with the language, the law does not require judges to attribute to the parties an
intention which they plainly could not have had.
The policy was taken out in around January 2020. Applying the principles to the policy, its
possible that the parties did have the global spread of a microscopic virus in mind when
entering into the contract of insurance. After all, Covid-19 had started spreading amongst the
human population at the time of entering into the insurance contract.
I also think a reasonable person with all knowledge of the background at the time of entering
the contract could reasonably conclude that other acts of nature would encompass all
aspects of the natural world  including viruses. And different types of coronaviruses have
emerged over the years and have affected certain countries along with other viruses such as
the Zika virus and Ebola. I think this is something the parties wouldve been aware of at the
time of entering into the contract of insurance.
Although, not legal authority arising out of the courts of England and Wales, the US District
Court in the Southern District of New York in JN Contemporary Art LLC v Phillips
Auctioneers LCC (No. 20-CV-4370) held that [i]t cannot seriously be disputed that the
Covid-19 pandemic is a natural disaster for the purposes of a force majeure clause in an
auction agreement which expressly referred to natural disasters. I dont think thats
inconsistent with the spread of a microscopic virus falling within the definition of an act of
nature.
Ive also taken into account the rules of language applied by the courts which say that a
sweeping up phrase will be of the same type as the previous specific provisions set out in
the clause. Applying the rules of language to the policy definition of major incident could
lead to the conclusion that the sweeping up phrase of any other acts of nature at the end of
the definition includes only acts of nature along the lines of volcanic eruption and climactic
conditions, not microscopic viruses (such as Covid-19). However, the curtailment section of
the policy, separately defines natural disaster. And when defining major disruption in the trip
disruption section of the policy, URV couldve included the term other natural disasters but
didnt. The phrase other acts of nature was used. If it had instead referred to natural
disasters when defining major disruption, then this may have been clearer for the
policyholder to understand. So, in this case, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and
reasonable to equate other acts of nature with the term natural disaster  as defined by the
policy.
Having considered everything above, I think the phrase other acts of nature has  at the
very least - more than one meaning (in the absence of being separately defined elsewhere in
the policy). And because Im satisfied that the policy terms and conditions amount to a
consumer contract, I think The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA) is a relevant
consideration here. Section 69(1) of the CRA says: If a term in a consumer contract, or aconsumer notice, could have different meanings, the meaning that is most favourable to the
consumer is to prevail.
Im satisfied the meaning most favourable to Mrs H would be that the phrase other acts of
nature includes microscopic viruses such as Covid-19.
Other relevant considerations
When deciding whether URV has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mrs Hs
complaint, Ive not only considered relevant law. Rule 3.6.4R of the Dispute Resolution
Rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook says, when considering whats
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, I should take into account: the
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice
and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses, which URV must follow, including that a firm must:
- conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2).
- pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
- pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate
   information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading (Principle 7).
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers of financial
services in certain circumstances to do to ensure that customers are treated fairly. And this
Guide explains that firms should take account of what information the customer needs to
understand the product or service, its purpose and the risks, and communicate information in
a way that is clear, fair and not misleading.
I also think its good industry practice for underwriters of travel insurance policies to clearly
set out the terms on which someone is insured, including what they are and arent covered
for. And they ought to provide clear definitions of any words or phrases which could be
ambiguous and have various different meanings. Ive explained above why I consider the
phrase other acts of nature to be ambiguous and, without the phrase being separately
defined, that it has different interpretations.
Overall, Im satisfied that this all leads to the conclusion that URV hasnt acted fairly and
reasonably by declining Mrs Hs claim here. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for the
phrase other acts of nature to include the Covid-19 pandemic.
When deciding this issue, Ive taken into account what URV has said about an act of
nature being an event where the effects of which could not be prevented or avoided by the
exercise of due care or foresight. But Im not convinced by that. The other examples given of
what constitutes a major disruption under the policy are potentially capable of being avoided.
So, as the phrase being hasnt been separately defined, I dont think a reasonable person
considering other acts of nature would reasonably conclude that the policy only covers a
major disruption which couldnt have been avoided or prevented in some way. And Ive not
been referred to any independent evidence  medical or otherwise  which supports the idea
that once transmission starts, a virus can be prevented from spreading across the world.
The policy exclusionsThe trip disruption section of the policy also goes on to list what isnt covered and that
includes if: you booked your trip, or travelled after the announcement of a major incident.
Ill refer to this as the exclusion.
Under the policy, travelled isnt separately defined but Im currently satisfied that it would be
fair and reasonable to interpret this as the date of travel from the UK.
The travel disruption section of the policy expressly provides cover for: reasonable
additional travel expenses to enable you to return home or move to a safer area. So, if
travelled in the context of the exclusion is interpreted more widely to include all travel 
including travel back to the UK after the announcement of a major incident - then a
policyholder is unlikely to ever be able to claim on the policy for a return flight home after a
major incident is announced. Even though there is separate cover for such a scenario under
the policy.
Im also satisfied that the announcement of Covid-19 being a major incident first took place
on 11 March 2020. Although, there were reports of people contracting Covid-19 before 
Mrs H travelled in February 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) didnt declare 
Covid-19 as a pandemic until 11 March 2020. So, I dont think the exclusion is applicable to 
the circumstances of this complaint, as Mrs H didnt book her trip or travel on or after the 
WHO announcement.
Putting things right
I direct URV to assess Mrs Hs claim on the basis that a major incident includes
the Covid-19 pandemic and is covered under the trip disruption section of the policy. This is
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  including (but not limited to) the
financial limits of this section of the policy, and any applicable excess.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right as Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman