DRN-2869529
The complaint
 Mr W took out a loan with Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) in July 2019. He says that Monzo lent 
to him irresponsibly. He has since struggled to make the monthly repayments.
 
What happened
Mr W says that he applied for a £15,000 loan as he wanted to consolidate other lending as 
he was constantly in his overdraft and he wanted to move home. When he applied, his 
income was from benefits before starting his job but he knew he was getting a job. Although 
he now has a job earning £19,000 a year, he is still having issues due to ill health and was 
off work due to stress. Mr W has spoken to a debt charity as he is still often at the bottom of 
his overdraft. He says that he wasnt asked any questions about other bills and debts and 
that this was irresponsible lending.
Monzo says that it made the correct decision to lend to Mr W. It says that he met its criteria 
for lending at the time the loan was taken out, based on income information provided by Mr 
W and information from credit reporting agencies. Monzo says that it does take annual 
income into consideration.
Monzo says that Mr W declared an income of £21,000 and said he worked full time and was 
a tenant. Monzo says it verified this income and was very confident that this was a stable 
income belonging to Mr W. Mr Ws expenditure and rental expenses were calculated using 
an average for a customer of his age, location and income. Monzo determined that Mr W 
had sufficient affordability to be able to take on a loan of up to £15,000. Mr Ws credit score 
(both external and internal) was sufficient for its credit risk policy to allow a loan of up to 
£15,000.
Mr W says that at the time of the loan he wasnt working and was on personal income of 
£13,000. He was due to start work the following month and had been given the contract so 
he knew he could keep up the repayments (£19,000 wages and £6,300 personal 
independence payment) Mr W says that he doesnt know where the £21,000 quoted income 
would come from.
Our investigator looked at this complaint. She found that Monzo did carry out reasonable 
checks to satisfy it that Mr W would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. She 
noted that being in receipt of benefits and having an overdraft wouldnt automatically mean 
Mr W wouldnt qualify for a loan. The investigator considered Mr Ws income and outgoings 
at the time he took the loan to see whether it was affordable and concluded that it was. She 
also found that it was reasonable for Monzo to conclude that Mr W could sustainably repay 
the loan without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without 
having to borrow further. 
I disagreed with the investigator and set out in my provisional decision dated 8 April 2021 
(reproduced below) why I was minded to uphold this complaint on the basis that Monzos 
decision to lend to Mr W was unfair and that he shouldnt have been given the loan. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence by 8 May 2021.
Monzo disagreed with my provisional decision. It says that information provided by the 
customer in June 2019 supported the affordability assessment. Monzo also said that it 
strongly believes that putting the customer in control results in more open dialogue and 
better customer outcomes and that the vast majority of its customers do not have their entire 
income paid into their Monzo account. 
Mr W contacted this service for clarification of the findings in the provisional decision but has 
not made any further comments in relation to these findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  In my provisional decision I set out the following:
Having looked at the evidence I disagree with the investigators view and I've 
explained my reasons further below.
Before agreeing to an application for credit, businesses need to make sure they lend 
in a responsible manner. To do this they are required to carry out appropriate checks. 
There isnt a set requirement of what a business must do in every instance. But the 
checks need to be borrower-focused and proportionate to the application being 
made. The size and duration of the loan will therefore be relevant to the 
reasonableness of the checks carried out. These checks usually include an 
assessment of whether the person requesting credit can afford to make and sustain 
the repayments, taking account of their financial situation and other outgoings.
Monzo has provided a copy of its credit risk assessment, which shows that Mr W had 
a credit score of 642 (out of 710) from the credit reference agency, no defaults, 
missed payments or short-term loans taken and 12 accounts on his credit file.
Monzo says that Mr W declared an income of £21,000 and that it verified this income 
and was very confident that this was a stable income. Monzo has been asked to 
clarify what verification was done on this income. It has provided a copy of its 
affordability assessment which states that the Verified Net Monthly Income was 
£1,522 which corresponded to an annual gross income of £21,000. The affordability 
assessment also shows that the Income Confidence Factor was given a rating of 8 
from a range of 1-9. 
Although Monzo has provided a copy of the affordability assessment, it is still not 
clear what verification was done in relation to Mr Ws income. Ive looked at Mr Ws 
statements for his bank account with Monzo, which was opened at the end of March 
2019. Prior to taking out the loan on 28 July 2019, Mr Ws monthly income amounted 
to around £1,100, made up of benefit payments of approximately £620 of universal 
credit and £480 of personal independence payments. 
Although it appears that Mr W was starting a new job around the time of the loan 
application, the first salary payment received into his account was at the end of 
August 2019 for approximately £1,000. In light of the above, its unclear what checks 
Monzo did to verify that Mr Ws income was £1,500 a month in July 2019 as this was 
inconsistent with the information it held in relation to his account. I think that if Monzo 
had done further checks to verify Mr Ws income it would have established that this 
was closer to £1,100 than £1,500 at the time he applied for the loan.Monzo says that it calculated Mr Ws expenditure and rental expenses using an 
average for a customer of his age, location and income. The affordability assessment 
shows that it used a figure of £1,077 for Mr Ws monthly essential spend and other 
monthly debt obligations have been recorded as £50 which the report says is 
determined from Monzos credit search with a credit reference agency and any 
internal Monzo debt. The monthly affordability capacity is recorded as £300 and 
based on this Monzo has determined that Mr Ws affordability capacity for credit was 
sufficient to be able to meet the monthly repayments of £274.11 on the loan. 
However, based on Mr Ws actual monthly income of £1,100 these outgoings would 
have left him with a deficit every month. Monzo didnt check Mr Ws actual outgoings 
and I dont think it was reasonable for it to rely on estimated amounts rather than 
considering Mr Ws actual monthly expenditure in the circumstances of this case for 
the reasons set out below.
Ive looked at the chat history between Mr W and Monzo for his bank account. On 10 
June 2019, Mr W contacted Monzo by chat to say he was having problems paying off 
his overdraft and asking for help. He said he was due to start a new job and went on 
a spending spree but now theyd pushed back the start date and they werent being 
very forthcoming with a new one. Mr W said that as he was on universal credit and 
PIP benefits and was constantly at the bottom of his overdraft. 
During this call Mr W told Monzo that he was suffering with depression and anxiety 
and that his coping mechanism was spending. He said that he had spoken to the 
Money Advice Service and done a budget and that he could afford to pay it off within 
four months. Mr W said that his main worry was that he would pay off a chunk of his 
overdraft, then hit a depressive episode and ruin what he had worked hard to pay off. 
Mr W was asked by Monzo if he had any other debts and said he had a £500 
overdraft with another bank. He said he was going to pay off £200 per month and 
reduce the overdraft with the other bank. He said that the other banks financial 
difficulties team was less forgiving and had told him entering into a payment plan 
would affect his credit file. Monzo set up a plan to reduce Mr Ws overdraft by £80 a 
month from 26 June onwards. Mr W also asked if it would be possible to set up a 
gambling ban on his account at this time and was told how he could do this himself 
on the account settings.
On 24 June 2019, Mr W contacted Monzo again by chat and asked to cancel the 
overdraft reduction plan (due to commence on 26 June) as he had miscalculated and 
only had £40 to last him the week. The plan was cancelled so never came into effect 
to reduce Mr Ws overdraft.
On 25 July 2019, Mr W contacted Monzo and asked to speak to the vulnerable 
customers team as he didnt think he had been dealt with fairly when he used the 
chat function to query a transaction. It was noted on an internal note in the chat that 
there was a customer note on the account and Mr W referred to there being a 
vulnerable customer flag on his account.
On 26 July 2019, an internal note was placed on Monzos system stating If this user 
comes back regarding a VC issue, please: check we can help with this using this 
guidance, reply to the user and tell them you're just asking for a bit of help from a 
specialist, tell them we'll be back in touch very soon, and then escalate this user to 
VC.Monzo approved Mr Ws loan application on 28 July 2019, the repayments being 
£273.90 over 60 months. It is clear that Mr W had alerted Monzo to the fact that he 
was in financial difficulties the previous month and had by that time contacted the 
Money Advice Service in order to work out a budget for paying off his overdraft. He 
had indicated that he had mental health problems and was concerned about 
overspending when in a depressive episode and he had been noted on Monzos 
internal system as a vulnerable customer only two days before the loan was 
approved. 
Mr W had initially agreed an overdraft reduction plan of £80 a month but contacted 
Monzo only a month before the loan was approved to indicate that he was no longer 
able to pay off the £80 a month as he had miscalculated. However, despite this the 
loan  with a monthly repayment of three and a half times that amount  was 
approved the following month.
In light of the above, it is my view that it would have been appropriate and 
proportionate for Monzo to have carried out more borrower-focused checks on 
whether the loan was affordable for Mr W. The information available  which was 
also available to Monzo at the time it approved the loan  suggests to me that Monzo 
didnt do enough to ensure Mr W would be able to meet the payments in a 
sustainable manner without falling into financial difficulty or experiencing significant 
adverse impact. This is particularly so, given that Mr W had already indicated to 
Monzo only a month earlier that he was already in financial difficulty and was unable 
to pay off his overdraft. Had Monzo completed further checks on Mr Ws income and 
financial position, this would have shown that the proposed loan payments would not 
have been affordable for Mr W. 
In summary, I dont think Monzo did enough at the time of granting Mr W the loan to 
check that it was affordable for him. Based on the information available, I think it was 
sufficiently clear it wasnt capable of being sustained over the loan term. And so Im 
satisfied that Monzos decision to lend to Mr W was unfair and that he shouldnt have 
been given the loan.
I also subsequently set out the following in relation to what Monzo should do to put things 
right:
Ive considered what would be a fair way to address these errors. Mr W has had the 
benefit of the funds for the loan, so I dont think it would be fair to ask Monzo to write 
this amount off. However, I dont think Mr W should be held responsible for the costs 
associated with the loan  the interest, and any charges, applied to it. Had the loan 
not been granted, as I think should have happened, Mr W wouldnt have had to pay 
these amounts, so I dont think it is fair that he should pay them now. I also dont 
think any negative information should be recorded on Mr Ws credit file in respect of 
this loan  as without the error by Monzo, the loan wouldnt have existed. 
Mr W has indicated that this issue has affected him since the loan has been taken 
out and contributed to him being off work for 12 weeks due to stress. And I can 
understand why having this debt wouldve been distressing. Given that I dont think 
Monzo should have lent to Mr W and Monzo were made aware shortly before the 
loan was given that he was already in financial difficulties, had spoken to a debt 
advice organisation, was suffering from mental health problems, and was flagged as 
a vulnerable customer, Monzo should pay a further £150 to Mr W to compensate for 
the distress hes been caused in addition to the removal of the costs associated with 
the loan.Following this provisional decision, Monzo has made some further submissions. Firstly, it 
says that information provided by Mr W supports the affordability assessment and it has 
provided a copy of the budget self-assessment Mr W completed with the Money Advice 
Service and provided during the communication on 10 June 2019. This shows a total 
monthly income of £1,146 and total spending of £659, leaving a balance of £487, which 
Monzo says shows a greater affordability capacity and supports its view that the outcome of 
the affordability assessment was both reasonable and conservative. 
I have considered this point and I disagree. Whilst Monzo now says that the information in 
Mr Ws self-assessment provided on 10 June supports its affordability assessment, I note 
that the income declared here was £1,146. Monzo has provided no further information as to 
what checks it did to verify that Mr Ws income was £1,500 a month in July 2019, which is 
what the loan was based on. During this call Mr W also made Monzo aware that he had 
debts with another bank, yet this is not reflected in the self-assessment. The figures provided 
by the customer on 10 June were provided as Mr W was having trouble paying off his 
overdraft and was asking for help and  as a result of this call  an overdraft reduction plan 
was arranged for Mr W to pay off £80 a month. But - as I said in my provisional decision  
two weeks later Mr W contacted Monzo asking to cancel the overdraft reduction plan as he 
had miscalculated his figures and only had £40 left to last him the week. And despite this, 
the loan  with a monthly repayment of three and a half times that amount  was approved 
the following month. Therefore the self-assessment budget provided for a debt charity by Mr 
W six weeks prior to the loan (and which he subsequently said he had miscalculated) does 
not affect my view that more borrower-focussed checks should have been carried out by 
Monzo before lending the £15,000. 
Monzo has also said that it strongly believes that putting the customer in control results in 
more open dialogue and better customer outcomes. It says that its vulnerable customer 
team would only set a do not lend flag to restrict lending once either the customer has 
consented to this or there are significant and serious concerns about the customer. In this 
case, Monzo believes that Mr W declared a short-term difficulty and it stands by the decision 
to not apply a flag to this particular customer. 
Whether or not there was do not lend flag applied to the account does not affect the 
regulatory obligations on Monzo to ensure that lending was affordable for Mr W. It may well 
have been that other products would have been affordable to Mr W but my provisional 
decision sets out why  in respect of the circumstances of this loan  it would have been 
appropriate and proportionate for Monzo to have carried out more borrower-focused checks 
on whether the loan was affordable for Mr W. Had it done so, this would have shown that the 
proposed loan payments would not have been affordable for Mr W. 
Monzo also says that the vast majority of its customers do not have their entire income paid 
into their Monzo account. Monzo says its credit reference agencys affordability search 
verifies income based on the inbound transactions across all bank accounts held by the 
customer and it believes that restricting lending based on just having their income paid into 
the Monzo account would result in bad customer outcomes. It says it understands the 
customer had more than one bank account at the time he applied for the loan. It says  and 
Ive seen evidence to confirm  that the £21,000 income was declared by the customer 
during the loan process and that the affordability assessment showed that this income was 
given a rating of 8 from 1-9. 
But the issue here is about verification. Although Monzo has referred to Mr Ws other 
accounts, it appears that all of Mr Ws income was paid into the Monzo account by the time he applied for the loan  his benefits of £1,100 as declared in the self-assessment in June 
2019 and his salary from August 2019 of approximately £1,000. I considered the affordability 
assessment based on this information in my provisional decision and as set out there and 
above, its still unclear what checks Monzo did to verify that Mr Ws income was £1,500 a 
month.
I have considered what Monzo has said but this doesnt change my mind about the outcome 
of this case. It remains my view that Monzo didnt do enough at the time of granting Mr W 
the loan to check that it was affordable for him. Based on the information available, I think it 
was sufficiently clear it wasnt capable of being sustained over the loan term. And so Im 
satisfied that Monzos decision to lend to Mr W was unfair and that he shouldnt have been 
given the loan.
Putting things right
In light of the above and my provisional decision, I require Monzo to:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
Arrange a repayment plan with Mr W to repay the amount he initially borrowed 
(£15,000) less any payments he has already made towards the loan;
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file in relation to the loan;
Pay Mr W an additional £150 in respect of distress and inconvenience caused.
 
My final decision
  For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I uphold this complaint and 
require Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman