DRN-3189381
The complaint
Miss G complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly marked her loan account as 
defaulted and passed it to a debt collector in early 2021. She says this was a deliberate act 
on Nationwides part designed to cause her personal detriment and financial and emotional 
distress because she has a history of dispute with them. She says her credit file has been 
affected, causing her embarrassment.
Miss G would like the default removed from her credit file and an explanation as to how her 
account came to be sent to a debt collector.
What happened
In October 2016 Miss G took out a fixed sum loan with Nationwide for £12,000. The term of 
the loan was 60 months and the monthly payments around £217.
In March 2020 Miss G requested some help as her income was disrupted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. A nil-payment plan was agreed initially, but when Nationwide started offering 
Covid-19 payment holidays Miss Gs plan was converted to a three-month payment holiday 
 this would prevent negative information being reported to her credit file.
In August 2020 Miss G asked for an extension to the payment holiday. Nationwide agreed a 
three-month nil-payment plan for September 2020 to November 2020 but later (in May 2021) 
recognised that this should have been a Covid-19 payment holiday extension until October 
2020.
In November 2020 Nationwide contacted Miss G to discuss her situation. As nothing had 
changed about her income, they offered her a nil-payment plan covering December 2020 
and January and February 2021. They also explained that this would show on her credit file. 
Miss G agreed.
On 13 January 2021 Nationwide marked the loan as in default and reported a default to 
credit reference agencies. There was no notice of this given to Miss G and she wasnt 
informed at the time.
In February 2021 Nationwide wrote to Miss G advising that her current payment plan had 
ended.
Nationwide called Miss G on 22 February 2021. As she didnt have the money to bring the 
account up to date or resume her repayments they said the best option, to give her more 
time, would be to default the loan, freeze the balance and send the outstanding amount to 
an debt collector to arrange a longer term repayment plan. Miss G wasnt happy to accept 
that the account would default. She said shed try to bring the account up to date before the 
default notice expired. She made it clear she wanted to avoid a default as she was worried 
about how it would impact her job. Nationwide issued a default notice giving her to 15 March 
2021 to clear the arrears.
Miss G attempted to make a payment towards the arrears a few days later but was unable to 
locate her account online. Miss G raised the disappearance of her account as a complaint. 
Nationwide then realised that the account had already been defaulted in January 2021 and 
outsourced to a debt collector (it had passed to them on 5 March 2021). They asked the debt 
collector to put the account on hold.
Miss G contacted Nationwide on 10 March 2021 as shed received a letter from the debt 
collector. Ive listened to a recording of this call. Miss G was extremely upset. She said from 
her conversation on 22 February she believed shed have until 15 March to clear the arrears 
before a debt collector would become involved. She wanted to know why her account had 
been sent to a debt collector well before the default notice had expired. She said shed been 
lied to about what was going to happen, and that Nationwide had broken the law by 
defaulting her account without notice. Nationwide told Miss G this looked to be a system 
error.
Later in the call Miss G said shed like to pay £2,800 off what she owed. She was advised to 
pay £2,392.39 to clear the arrears and bring the account up to date (she was later told that 
she ought to have been advised to pay £2,827.37  the payment shed made had only 
brought her account up to date to the end of January 2021).
Meanwhile, Nationwide recalled the account from the debt collectors. It was returned to 
Nationwide on 11 March 2021.
Miss G complained to Nationwide that her loan had been transferred to a debt collector 
before the default notice had expired, and that her credit file had been affected.
Nationwide upheld Miss Gs complaint. They accepted that the default had been reported in 
January 2021 in error due to a failure within the system, offered her £300 compensation, and 
apologised for the anxiety and distress caused by their error. On 15 April 2021 Nationwide 
sent an amendment to credit reference agencies about the default.
On 16 April 2021 Nationwide told Miss G that theyd requested the removal of the default. 
But they said the process for making a lasting amendment to the credit file would mean 
rewriting the loan and allowing the existing loan to redeem. They said this would be 
necessary because, so long as the existing loan remained unredeemed, a default would 
return to the credit file each month. Nationwide said, The process for the removal of the 
default is complex, however this process is based on the capabilities of the loan 
management system.
On 14 May 2021 Miss G paid off the remainder of the loan.
In July 2021 the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) asked Nationwide to do more to 
respond to Miss Gs complaint regarding the information theyd reported to her credit file.
In response to the ICOs involvement, Nationwide issued a further response to Miss G in 
August 2021. They confirmed that as of 2 August 2021 the loan was showing on her credit 
file as settled and there was no default.
What Miss G told us
When Miss G brought her complaint to this service, she said she felt Nationwide were 
attempting to bankrupt her. She told us she felt victimised because she has a history of 
dispute with Nationwide, and that defaulting her loan was a deliberate act against her.
What Nationwide told usNationwide said theyd made a mistake by applying the default in January 2021. They 
explained their loan management system had a trigger to write off (default) accounts where 
11% or less of the balance was paid over a consecutive 9-month period. Whilst this didnt 
usually cause an issue, the extended Covid-19 payment holidays caused some accounts, 
including Miss Gs, to hit this trigger. The loan was defaulted by the system and allocated to 
a collection agent without Nationwide realising the error. Nationwide confirmed this was not 
unique to Miss G.
Nationwide further explained that theyd advised Miss G to rewrite the loan - shift the 
outstanding balance to a new loan account and close the defaulted one - because once an 
account defaults it will continue to report as defaulted every new reporting month until it is 
closed, even if it should not have defaulted to begin with.
Information received from third parties
In August 2021 our investigator requested and received information from one of the main 
credit reference agencies. This confirmed that on 11 April 2021 the status of Miss Gs loan 
account was showing as Default but by 12 July 2021 the status was Settled.
Our investigators view
Our investigator upheld Miss Gs complaint about her loan being defaulted and sent to a 
debt collector in January 2021 without notice. She said this error caused incorrect 
information to be reported to her credit file repeatedly over a number of months. However, 
she didnt think Nationwide had acted deliberately; she was satisfied that the initial error (the 
defaulting of the account in January 2021) had been caused by an automated process, not 
specific to Miss G.
Our investigator said Nationwide should increase the compensation theyd offered to £500 in 
recognition of the serious impact an incorrectly reported default can have, and the fact that 
Miss G had felt so victimised and anxious that she paid off the loan in May 2021, earlier than 
she was contractually obliged to.
Nationwide accepted the investigators findings and agreed to pay Miss G £500 
compensation. They also provided screenshots from the three main credit reference 
agencies showing that there are no defaults showing in respect of this loan.
Miss G didnt accept the investigators view  she provided a detailed 34-page response. 
Whilst she thought the investigator had acknowledged what had happened, she didnt think 
the level of compensation was fair. She suggested increasing the award to £3,000. She 
highlighted the impact on her credit rating, the embarrassment and distress shes suffered, 
and the time its taken her to sort out. She said Nationwide provided no care to her as a 
vulnerable customer, and she didnt accept the default had been caused by a computer. She 
strongly disagreed that Nationwides actions hadnt been deliberate and didnt believe 
Nationwide had had multiple customers with the same issues. She explained she thinks 
Nationwide hoped shed default in March 2021 so that they wouldnt have to tell her theyd 
incorrectly defaulted the account in January 2021. Miss G added that shed not been made 
aware of the default until March 2021 when she received a letter from the debt collector and 
said, this was very very upsetting.
In December 2021 Miss G supplied a screenshot from a credit reference agency which 
showed the account status as paid and closed on 17 May 2021, but also showed a Default 
balance of £4,239. Although there was no D for default in the payment history.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.The scope of this decision
Before I explain my findings on this complaint, I want to provide some clarity about what 
issues this decision will, and will not, address. Between April and September 2021 Miss G 
brought numerous complaints to this service which relate to Nationwides management of 
her personal loan account between March 2020 and August 2021. As they all relate to the 
same loan account and series of events, the complaints overlap, but theyve been handled 
separately until this point and so Im issuing four separate decisions addressing different 
aspects. In summary, Miss G has complained that:
1. Nationwide unfairly marked her loan account as defaulted in January 2021 and 
passed it to a debt collector.
2. Nationwide reported missed payments to credit reference agencies whilst she was on 
payment plans and didn't offer her appropriate support in relation to her financial 
difficulties during the Covid-19 pandemic.
3. Nationwide reported the following adverse entry to her credit file in May 2021 - "A 
unsecured loan account will be changed to negative status on your May report".
4. Nationwide reported a 2nd default in May 2021, advised her that the only way to fix 
the incorrect default was to re-write the loan, and sent her a notice of arrears letter in 
August 2021.
Miss G has also said that when managing her loan account Nationwide discriminated 
against her based on her protected characteristics.
In this decision, Ill address Miss Gs complaint that Nationwide unfairly marked her loan 
account as defaulted in January 2021 and passed it to a debt collector. And her complaint 
that when managing her loan account Nationwide discriminated against her based on her 
protected characteristics.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator did and for broadly the 
same reasons  I uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Its common ground that the defaulting of Miss Gs account in January 2021 by Nationwide 
was an error, and unjustified given what had been agreed in light of the prevailing 
circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic. It was incorrect to treat her account as defaulted 
at that stage because, although shed not met her financial obligations under the loan 
agreement since February 2020, this was not a business as usual situation. Her payments 
had been deferred from March 2020 to October 2020  in other words Nationwide had 
permitted her to make no payments for those months without considering her to be in 
arrears, in line with the temporary guidance issued by the regulator to financial businesses. 
Miss G was then on a nil-payment plan for the months of December 2020 and January and 
February 2021.
So, by 13 January 2021 when the account was marked by the system as defaulted, I think 
that was premature. Although Miss G was three months in arrears at this point (for 
November, December and January), she hadnt been given any deadline to pay the arrears. 
Nationwide accept that Miss G didnt receive any of the usual notices that are required to be sent before a lender marks an account as defaulted.
I agree that Nationwide didnt treat Miss G fairly or reasonably here. They incorrectly 
reported a default to her credit file and set in motion the process for sending her loan 
account to a debt collector. The first Miss G knew of this was when she received a letter 
from that debt collector and, understandably, given the wider circumstances of her 
relationship with Nationwide, this caused her considerable distress. From her perspective 
shed done all that she could to protect her credit rating during the unprecedented 
circumstances of the pandemic; shed reached out for help with payment deferrals, and 
when those expired agreed a nil-payment plan. And she was planning to bring her account 
up to date before the default notice, issued by Nationwide after her conversation with them in 
February 2021, expired.
But having thought carefully about Miss Gs comments on our investigators 
recommendation that Nationwide increases the compensation payment to £3,000, I dont 
agree that the payment should be increased further. I think £500 is fair compensation for 
what happened and recognises that this mistake caused Miss G considerable distress, upset 
and worry. I understand that Miss G was acutely worried about what her employers would 
make of the suggestion that she couldnt manage her finances. This compensation also 
reflects that the incorrect default marker will have had an impact on Miss Gs credit rating 
until it was removed.
I shall address the issue of the default marker returning to Miss Gs account in May 2021, 
and what Nationwide told Miss G was necessary to make their amendment to her credit file 
last, in a separate decision. However, I can see that Nationwide did take steps to remove the 
incorrectly placed default marker in April 2021 and again in May and June 2021. Im also 
satisfied that the accounts status in July 2021 was correctly showing as Settled.
I appreciate that in December 2021 Miss G supplied a screenshot from a credit reference 
agency which showed the account status as paid and closed but also showed a Default 
balance of £4,239. I can only suggest that Miss G raises this apparent inconsistency with 
the credit reference agency concerned. I say this because the evidence Ive seen suggests 
that the three main credit reference agencies are no longer showing the incorrect default, 
only five missed payment markers for November and December 2020 and January to March 
2021. I will address Miss Gs complaint about these missed payment markers in a separate 
decision.
Finally, although I know that Miss G feels strongly that the account was defaulted and 
reported to credit reference agencies incorrectly as a deliberate act by Nationwide, I havent 
seen any evidence that supports that being the case. Miss G is correct that there have been 
several errors made by Nationwide in relation to this account and when experienced 
collectively I can understand why shes felt targeted. But Ive seen no evidence that whats 
happened here is connected to her previous disputes with Nationwide; Im satisfied that the 
account was defaulted in January 2021 because the automated system wasnt proactively 
adjusted to take into account the consequences of Covid-19 payment deferrals. Ive also 
seen no evidence that the errors which occurred here were part of any attempt by 
Nationwide to treat Miss G less favourably because of any protected characteristic she has.
Putting things right
To compensate Miss G for the distress and inconvenience caused by their error of 
incorrectly marking her loan account as defaulted in January 2021 and passing it to a debt 
collector, Nationwide should pay Miss G £500.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint. Nationwide Building Society should put 
things right in the way I set out in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman