DRN-2862446
The complaint
In summary, Mr M has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited, 
delayed the payment of his annuity, and changed the payment date. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr M purchased an annuity from L&G through an annuity broker, who I will 
refer to as B. The first payment wasnt made until November 2019. 
Mr M was concerned about the delay in paying his annuity, and he complained to L&G. In its 
response L&G apologised for the mistake it made when setting up his annuity. It arranged 
for £272.78 to paid in respect of the missed income payment he should have received and 
£77.22 for the inconvenience caused to him. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms concerns. He explained why he didnt think L&G 
didnt need to do anything more. Mr M didnt accept what the investigator had said, so the 
case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
L&G has explained that Mr Ms annuity application was received on 7 October 2019. And it 
has also said that the start date for the annuity is when the application is received. Im 
satisfied that in this case, this was an appropriate date for the annuity to start. This is 
because the start date is when Mr Ms application was received. And it hasnt been delayed 
by the necessary administrative processes that are involved in setting up the annuity. 
The annuity purchased by Mr M was payable monthly in arrears. The first annuity payment 
should therefore have been paid on 7 November 2019. So, Ive looked into why the annuity 
payment didnt start on that date. 
I can see from L&Gs file that the funds were received to set up the annuity on 22 October 
2019. It wrote to B on 24 October to say that the annuity was being processed and asked it 
to confirm the income amount, and that B wanted it to put the policy in force. B queried the 
start date which was showing as 22 October 2019. L&G confirmed the start date should be 
when the application was received.  So, it does appear that L&G made an initial mistake on 
the annuity paperwork, as it appears to have used the date the funds were received. But it 
corrected this mistake by telling B the annuity start date was when the application had been 
received by it. 
But on 25 October 2019 B sent a new quote to L&G and asked for the case to be put on 
hold. L&G explained that the annuity had already been authorised. And it went on to explain 
that if the annuity was to be changed then a fee of £250 would need to be paid for the 
annuity to be redrawn. 
The new quote received from B, reflected that it had sacrificed some of its commission. As a 
new annuity application was received, Im satisfied that this is what resulted in L&G starting 
a new annuity commencement date. And that this caused Mr Ms annuity to be paid on a 
different date from when the annuity was originally due to be paid. 
The new quote and annuity led to an increase in the annuity amount and resulted in 
additional tax-free cash (TFC) being paid to Mr M. That additional TFC payment could only 
have been made once the revised quote had been received and processed. So, I dont think 
L&G did anything wrong in that respect. 
Taking into account what Ive said above in respect of the new quote, I can also understand 
why the annuity commencement date changed. But L&G has said that the annuity should 
have started on 7 November 2019. So, it accepts that the first annuity payment was made to 
Mr M 15 days late, as the first payment wasnt made until 22 November 2019. And I think 
therefore it is correct that L&G has paid Mr M the annuity income he lost as a result of the 
first annuity payment being paid late.
The annual income from the annuity is £6,637.68. This works out as a daily rate of £18.18. 
So, Im satisfied that the figure of £272.78 L&G has paid Mr M in respect of the first months 
late payment is correct. And I note that it hasnt deducted any income tax that might be due 
on that payment. 
I do understand Mr Ms frustration that the first annuity payment wasnt made on time and on 
a different date to the one he was expecting it to be paid on. And I think L&G could have 
explained how it reached its compensation figures and what had happened more clearly. If it 
had, I think Mr M would have had a better understanding of what had gone on. 
But the delay was just over two weeks, which minimised the impact on Mr M. As a result, I 
think the amount L&G has offered in respect of the distress and inconvenience felt by Mr M, 
is not an unreasonable amount of compensation to have offered him. And for the reasons 
Ive set out above I dont think L&G needs to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is to not uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my 
decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman