DRN-2689288
The complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to engage with him when he asked for a 
repayment plan to be set up in respect of his loan and overdraft and that it failed to 
correspond with him about the same only in writing.
Mr P is represented in his complaint by a third party, but for ease I will simply refer to Mr P in 
this decision, rather than Mr P and his representative.
What happened
On 10 June 2019 Mr P emailed TSB asking for a repayment plan to be set up in respect of 
his loan and overdraft.
On 16 June 2019 Mr P emailed TSB, reiterating his 10 June 2019 request, and asking for a 
response by email.
On 18 June 2019 TSB emailed Mr P asking for further information in order that it could 
locate his loan and overdraft.
On 19 June 2019 Mr P emailed TSB providing further information and asking that it change 
his address.
On 19 June 2019 TSB emailed Mr P to say that it had located his loan and overdraft, but it 
was unable to respond to his request by email. It then went on to explain that Mr P should 
contact his local branch, visit its website, or call its dedicated team of advisors.
On 20 June 2019 Mr P emailed TSB to say that he wasnt happy with its 19 June 2019 
response and required all communication in writing. He then went on to say that if wasnt 
possible for TSB to correspond only in writing then he wanted a complaint about the same 
registered.
On 26 June 2019 TSB issued Mr P with a final response letter (by email) saying that it 
believed the content of its email dated 19 June 2019 was appropriate and that in order to 
change his address he would need to go into branch.
On 14 July 2019 Mr P emailed TSB to complain that it hadnt engaged with him regarding his 
request for a repayment plan for his loan and overdraft and that it had ignored his request for 
all communication to be in writing.
On 15 July 2019 TSB contacted Mr P to say it had nothing further to add to its final response 
letter dated 26 June 2019.
Unhappy with TSBs response, Mr P referred his complaint to our service.
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that TSB had, in 
all the circumstances, acted appropriately.
Mr P didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and for 
the same reasons.
First, I would like to make it clear that Im only considering in this decision Mr Ps complaint 
that TSB failed to engage with him when he asked for a repayment plan to be set up in 
respect of his loan and overdraft and that it failed to correspond with him about the same in 
writing. In other words, Im not considering any other complaint that Mr P might have against 
TSB including any complaint he might have about letters being sent to an incorrect or old 
address, TSB not amending his address on its systems (at least in a timely manner), TSB 
not providing BACS details to him and the problems he has experienced in trying to close 
one or more accounts.
Like the investigator I accept that Mr P asked for all communication to be in writing. But 
although I would expect a business to have regard to a customers communication 
preferences and for a business to make reasonable adjustments to accommodate such 
preferences there will be occasions where such preferences, for various reasons, simply 
cant be accommodated.
Given what Mr P was looking to have agreed  a repayment plan in respect of two debts  I 
think it was entirely appropriate for TSB to ask Mr P to engage with it through means other 
than in writing, despite this being his preference. I also think that its worth noting that TSB 
offered Mr P three alternatives for him to make use of and in my view it hasnt, as Mr P 
appears to be suggesting, refused to engage with him.
So, and I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed, Im satisfied that TSB didnt treat him unfairly 
in asking that he contact it by the means outlined in its email dated 19 June 2019 in order 
that his repayment plan could be discussed.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman