DRN-3052726
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
in 2010 with a loan. Miss T says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ts case. Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold - 
because:
Miss T has said she chose to take the PPI because she was strongly advised to do so by 
Lloyds - and she felt this meant it would benefit her. She hasnt said anything to make 
me think she couldnt have turned down the recommendation if she wanted to. So what 
she has said makes me think Lloyds made it clear Miss T didnt have to take the PPI and 
she chose to take it. Also her loan agreement said the PPI was optional - and to take it 
Miss T ticked and signed for the PPI, separately from signing for the loan itself. So I think 
it was clear the PPI was something separate from the loan and that Miss T had a choice 
about taking it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss T, so it had to check the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, from what Miss T has told us she wouldnt have received any redundancy pay 
and was entitled only to statutory pay for sickness  so she seems to have had a need 
for the cover. Also she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover  for example, she didnt have any pre-existing health issues so she wouldnt have 
been affected by any exclusions for pre-existing health issues.
Miss T has told us she doesnt recall being given information about the PPI before being 
advised to take it out. Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss T wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she has explained she was made aware the PPI was cover for her 
loan payments in case she became ill or unemployed - so she understood what the 
cover was for when she chose to take it. And it seems like the benefit wouldve been 
useful if something went wrong, given what shes told us about her lack of work benefits 
for sickness or unemployment. It also looks like it was affordable cover and the monthly 
premium cost was set out on the loan agreement above where Miss T signed for cover. 
With this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think better information about the PPI 
wouldve put Miss T off taking the cover. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss T. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss T because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss T about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Miss T, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Miss Ts points, including what shes said about not benefiting from the 
PPI and how she couldve cleared her loan sooner if shed not been paying for PPI as well. 
But I still think the PPI offered her useful cover when she took it in case of disability or 
unemployment. Shes also said she didnt sign for PPI on her next loan, so it shouldnt have 
been added, but Ive seen nothing to suggest PPI was added to her next loan  so this 
doesnt change my decision above. So, with this and all Ive already said further above in 
mind, these points dont change my decision.
Miss T has said she wasnt offered the option of taking advantage of the PPI when she had 
financial difficulties and refinanced the loan. If Miss T thinks she shouldve been told to claim 
on the PPI due to having suffered unemployment or disability, and she wants to try to make 
a claim for this now, this is something shed have to approach the insurer about separately.
Im grateful to Miss T for her courtesy and the prompt attention shes given matters during 
our investigation of her complaint. I appreciate my conclusion may disappoint her.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss T.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Miss T any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman