DRN-2909686
The complaint
Miss N is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS), following the return of her car.
What happened
In November 2018, Miss N was supplied with a new car through a contract hire agreement 
with MBFS. The agreement was for 24 months, with an initial rental of £2,807.89 and 23 
monthly rental payments of £311.99.
When the agreement came to an end, Miss N arranged to return the car. The car was 
collected on 15 January 2021, and the collection agent visually inspected the car for 
damage. This inspection took place in poor weather conditions  heavy snow  and the 
collections agent noted damage to each of the cars four wheels.
A further inspection of the car took place on 25 January 2021 at MBFSs Defleet Centre.    
Miss N was then invoiced for £2,360.96 plus VAT for damage to the wheels and tyres, to the 
front bumper mouldings, to the rear bumper; and for scratches on the front bumper, on both 
doors and on other body panels. 
Miss N wasnt happy, and she complained to MBFS. She said she was happy to pay for the 
damage to the wheels, but the collection agent told her she wouldnt be invoiced for anything 
else as the car was in a good condition. She didnt think it was fair that a second inspection 
took place, and she didnt think the additional charges were fair. 
MBFS said there was damage to the car that fell outside of their Vehicle Return Standards 
(VRS). And they thought they were right to charge Miss N for this. Miss N was unhappy with 
MBFSs response, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, because of the poor weather conditions at the time of collection, 
he didnt think it was unreasonable that a second inspection was carried out. And, while the 
collection agent mayve said the car was in a good condition, its for MBFS to determine 
what charges should be applied in line with their VRS. 
The investigator said that, from the evidence hed seen, the damage MBFS were charging 
for was present on the car at the second inspection. And, as this damage fell outside the 
VRS, he didnt think MBFS had done anything wrong by charging Miss N for the damage.
Miss N didnt agree with the investigator. She said that if the car couldnt be properly 
inspected at the time of collection, then collection shouldnt have happened. And she 
wouldve kept the car and made her own repairs if the damage had been pointed out by the 
collection agent  things such as scuffs and scratches which are considered to be minor 
costs we would have rectified.  Miss N also didnt think it was fair the car was collected 
when it was, given the weather conditions at the time. So shes asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss N was supplied with a car under a contract hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the contract hire agreement, which Miss N signed on 8 November 2018. 
Under the heading Vehicle Return Standards, the agreement confirmed when the vehicle is 
returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out by trained 
technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre. The contract goes on to explain what is, and 
isnt, considered acceptable under the VRS. 
MBFS also provide customers with another copy of their VRS, six months before the end of 
any agreement. So, Im satisfied that Miss N shouldve been reasonably aware of where the 
car would be inspected, and what level of damage was and wasnt acceptable to MBFS 
when the car was returned. Because of this, I dont think MBFS did anything wrong by 
completing an inspection at their Defleet Centre, after the car was returned to them. And I 
dont think an inspection taking place at the point of collection changes this.
Ive seen the report from the first inspection, that took place on 15 January 2021. This report 
says there was damage to all of the wheels, and the cost for this would be £440 plus VAT. 
The report also says the car was snow covered and there were poor inspection conditions. 
This is supported by the video taken by the collection agent, which shows snow on the roof 
of the car and on various body panels.
Ive also seen the report from the second inspection, which took place on 20 January 2021. 
This says there was damage to the wheels and tyres, to the front bumper mouldings, to the 
rear bumper; and there were scratches on the front bumper, on both doors and on other 
body panels. The report also contains a video which clearly shows all of the damage being 
charged for.
The second report took place five days after the car was collected, and after the car had 
travelled an additional 54 miles. And this report shows a greater level of damage than the 
first report. Ive considered these facts, but Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the 
damage to the car occurred in the 2 years and around 18,500 miles it was in Miss Ns 
possession than the five days and 53 miles between inspections. Im also satisfied that, 
because of the snow and poor inspection conditions, not all of the damage was clearly 
visible when the car was collected and initially inspected.
Miss N had been made aware of the VRS, and the level of damage thatd be acceptable. If 
she wanted to arrange for her own repairs to any scuffs and scratches to the car, she was 
able to do this before the car was collected. But I wouldnt expect MBFS to give her the 
opportunity to complete any repairs after the inspection and collection had taken place.
So, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss N, I think that MBFS acted 
reasonably by charging her for the damage to the car, and I wont be asking them to amend 
their invoice.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint about Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman