DRN-3019587
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that HSBC UK Limited is responsible for a number of errors when
they were re-mortgaging.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B applied to HSBC to re-mortgage and take out a home owner loan. The 
remortgage amount applied for was around £3,500 on a capital repayment basis over a term 
of 8 years and 10 months and was to be used to repay the previous lender. The home owner
loan was for around £41,500, also on a capital repayment basis and over the same term,
and was to be used for home improvements.
Mr and Mrs B received the mortgage offer at the beginning of May 2020 and the completion
date was 15 July 2020.
Mr and Mrs B complained to HSBC on a number of occasions during the re-mortgage
process. And HSBC paid Mr and Mrs B a total of £500 compensation for the issues they
experienced, and also offered a further £50 compensation which was rejected.
Our investigators view
Our investigator felt that the compensation that HSBC had offered was fair and reasonable.
So she didnt recommend that it should do anything more. But Mr and Mrs B didnt agree 
and so their complaint was been referred to me for a final decision
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 13 July. Having carefully considered 
everything Mr and Mrs B had to say I was provisionally satisfied that HSBC had dealt with 
their complaints fairly. I said, in summary:
Information requested that had already been provided
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy that HSBCs lawyers had asked for information in 
relation to ID checks that they had already provided. And I saw that HSBC issued a 
final response letter responding to this complaint on 15 July 2020. It agreed that the 
processes operated by its lawyers were complicated, and apologised for the upset 
and inconvenience caused. It also credited Mr and Mrs Bs account with £300 
compensation.
I appreciated that Mr and Mrs B were put to additional trouble by being asked to 
supply information that they felt had already been provided. But, as HSBC explained, 
its lawyers requirements for ID vary depending on the circumstances and its lawyers 
were subject to their own regulatory requirements in this respect.
Having carefully considered the evidence and arguments, I was provisionally 
persuaded that HSBCs payment to Mr and Mrs B of £300 in respect of this issue 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Delay in receiving funds at completion
Mr and Mrs B also complained to HSBC about a delay in sending funds to them at 
completion due to bank details being requested after they had previously been 
supplied, and enquiries being made into Mr Bs health condition.
HSBC had issued a final response letter to this complaint on 5 August 2020. It said, 
in summary, that it appeared that the bank account details had been requested again 
due to a system error, which would have led the operators to wrongly believe they 
didnt have the information. And it also apologised for the upset caused to Mrs B 
when questioned about her husbands health. It paid Mr and Mrs B a further £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenienced caused by these issues.
Again, I appreciated that Mr and Mrs B were caused further trouble and upset due to 
this issue. And I appreciated that Mrs B didnt agree that the details were requested 
again due to a system error. But, although Id considered what Mrs B has to say, I 
was provisionally persuaded that the £200 compensation that HSBC has paid was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I was not minded to require it to do 
anything further.
Amount of funds at completion
HSBC issued a further final response letter on 6 August 2020. It noted that Mr and 
Mrs B were unhappy that they hadnt received the full amount that they were 
expecting, and that the staff member hadnt explained the process correctly during 
the appointment. But it explained that where part of the mortgage was being used to 
repay existing secured lending it could only lend the amount required to do this. Only 
£3,037.50 was required to repay the previous loan so this was the amount paid, 
together with the additional loan amount.
The final response letter also noted that Mrs B hadnt received callbacks when 
requested and that her requests regarding communication werent followed. It had 
offered Mrs B £50 compensation for these issues on the phone, which she had 
declined.
Id looked at the offer letter issued to Mr and Mrs B. I saw that this said, under the 
heading About this offer:
Where any part of the mortgage is to be used to repay any existing secured 
lending, well only be able to lend you the amount required to redeem this. This 
means if the sum requested is greater than the redemption figure you wont receive 
the surplus.
HSBC has explained that the redemption amount required was less than the amount 
Mr and Mrs B had originally applied for. So I was satisfied that HSBC hasnt made an 
error in paying the lower amount to Mr and Mrs B. And I was satisfied that this was 
explained to Mr and Mrs B in the offer letter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has responded to my provisional decision to confirm that it has nothing further to add.
Mrs B has also responded to my provisional decision. She says that she was unaware of the 
two different payments from HSBC, only found out by accident and never received anything 
in writing to confirm that these were paid into her account. And she feels that HSBC should 
be responsible for the actions of the solicitors they used.
Ive considered what Mrs B has to say but, having done so, it doesnt change my decision. 
Although I accept that Mrs B may not have received them. Im satisfied that HSBC issued 
separate final response letters for each part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and that the letters were correctly addressed. And Im also satisfied, for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, that it has dealt with the complaints fairly. So Im not persuaded to change my 
provisional decision. And I confirm it here.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman