DRN-2508802
The complaint
Mr H says Quays Wealth Management Limited (QWM) failed to give him suitable advice 
when it recommended the switch of his personal pension plan into a SIPP and associated 
investments. He says this has caused him financial detriment.
Mr H is represented in his complaint by Get Claims Advice Ltd (GCA).
What happened
Mr H says he received a cold call enquiring about his pension arrangements. This led to him 
meeting with QWM in October 2015 to discuss his situation. It completed a fact-find of his 
circumstances and objectives. And it provided him with a suitability report on 26 October 
2015 which identified some of his options and provided recommendations.
QWM recommended Mr H should switch his personal pension with Aviva Life, which was 
worth around £17,000, into a Liberty Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP). It said he 
should engage a discretionary fund manager which would ensure his investments remained 
aligned with his risk appetite, which it had assessed as high-medium.
Mr H accepted QWMs recommendations. His Aviva funds were moved into his new SIPP in 
December 2015. And they remained in his cash account.
By March 2016 it seems Mr H was concerned about what had happened. He signed a letter 
of authority for GCA to look into his pension switch and also to act for him in relation to any 
redress that might be offered. In April 2016 it asked QWM for all the information it had on file 
about the transaction. This was sent to it in June 2016.
After a significant passage of time QWM wrote directly to Mr H in December 2018. It said 
after reviewing his file that the SIPP it had recommended may not have been appropriate for 
him. To put matters right it offered to repay his initial and ongoing fees to that point in time. It 
also proposed an award for the inconvenience and stress it had caused.
The total payment QWM offered Mr H was just over £1,500. Mr H has confirmed that he 
accepted the payment in full and final settlement of the matter.
GCA had a number of concerns about what had happened. It says QWM went direct to Mr H 
with the offer despite the agreement that it would act as his representative. It says one of the 
results of this action was that Mr H didnt receive the proper compensation he was due.
GCA also asserts on Mr Hs behalf that QWM was responsible for subsequent advice in 
2016 that he should move SIPP providers. Liberty has confirmed to this Service that Mr H 
transferred his funds to another provider in December 2016.
QWM told us the claim that Mr H had been cold called about his pension is a fabrication. It 
says it never received a complaint via GCA on behalf of Mr H. Instead it had decided to 
review his case. The offer it made to him was fair and accepted by Mr H as closing the 
matter. QWM also says Mr H had appointed a new financial adviser in 2016, and that it had 
nothing to do with his change of SIPP provider.
The investigator noted QWMs attempt to put things right, but he found that Mr H had 
intended that his interests in the complaint should be represented by GCA. This hadnt 
happened and he concluded the compensation offered by QWM wasnt quite right. QWM 
disagreed with the investigator, so Mr Hs complaint was passed to me for review.
I issued my provisional decision in December 2020. QWM disagreed with my initial 
conclusions and submitted further arguments in support of its position. Ive carefully 
considered that response in arriving at this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties have provided information and argument concerning the events complained 
about. Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised. Thats deliberate; ours is 
an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Hs case?
The first thing I considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by QWM for Mr H. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like QWM. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.COBS 9.2.2R requires firms, among other things, to take account of a customers 
preferences regarding risk taking, their risk profile and to ensure they are able financially to 
bear any related investment risks consistent with their investment objectives.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four 
key issues it thought should be focussed on:
- Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their 
existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
- Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? This 
could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate 
or the right to take benefits early.
- Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded attitude 
to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
- Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need for 
ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
did QWM meet its regulatory obligations?
Mr Hs priorities and objectives were recorded by QWM as follows:
You intend to retire fully in around 25 years' time at age 65. You have a paid-up personal 
pension with Aviva and you have enquired as to whether there would be any merit in 
switching this to another provider.
Mr H was married with four dependent children. He was employed part-time as a store 
assistant. The analysis of income and expenditure wasnt complete, but his households 
disposable income was low. He and his wife had a loan and credit to service. They had no 
savings or other assets. Mr H is recorded as in poor health, but no details were captured.
Mr Hs personal pension plan with Aviva was in managed investments and was worth around 
£17,000. The annual management charge appears to have been around 0.1% of the value 
of his funds. There were no special guarantees or protections associated with his plan.
QWM assessed Mr Hs risk appetite as 6 out of 10. It said this meant he was adventurous 
with his investments and willing to accept exposure to higher risk investments and markets 
despite the potential for loss to some or all of his capital in order to achieve a higher potential 
for returns.
I can see why QWM subsequently acknowledged the advice it gave Mr H to switch his 
personal pension plan into a SIPP and associated investments wasnt appropriate. For 
example:
- Mr H was increasing his exposure to risk as a result of the switching of his pension. 
And while QWM says its proposals reflected his appetite, it failed to adequately 
explore his capacity for loss. This was his only pension provision and he had no other 
assets to fall back on. Mr H was also an inexperienced investor.
- QWM advised Mr H to switch his funds into a SIPP; to buy a discretionary fund 
management service; as well as take ongoing adviser services. This arrangement 
was over engineered given the size of his funds. Its unlikely he fully understood what 
he was being led into.- The costs associated with Mr Hs Aviva pension plan were modest at around 0.1% of 
his fund value. The arrangement QWM recommended meant he was being exposed 
to charges that were potentially in excess of 2% - so much more expensive. 
These are not the only weaknesses Ive found in QWMs approach. Ive concluded it didnt 
act in Mr Hs best interests or with due care. Had things worked as they shouldve, I think 
QWM wouldve advised Mr H that he should leave his pension plan where it was for the time 
being. And I think hed have accepted the professional advice given.
As QWM has already conceded there were problems with what happened in this transaction, 
Ill now turn to consider whether the redress it provided was fair and whether the way it 
handled this was reasonable.
When it wrote to Mr H in December 2018, it said it had conducted a full review of his file and 
concluded the SIPP it had recommended may not have been appropriate for him. It went on 
to make him a goodwill offer for what had happened. This included:
- A full refund of all his ongoing fees (including those levied by the SIPP provider) on 
his plan - £667
- A full refund of its initial fee: £508
- An amount in respect of stress and inconvenience caused: £350
Mr H accepted the offer in full and final settlement. QWMs contention is that this should be 
the end of the matter. Ive thought about this carefully, especially as in its offer letter to Mr H 
it did say if he still had a relationship with GCA he might want to consult his representative. 
But there are two problems here for QWM.
Firstly, GCA wrote to QWM in March 2016 with Mr Hs enduring letter of authority (LOA) 
saying he wanted the claims management company to represent him, including in relation to 
matters of any compensation due. And although there was a significant gap to 2018 when 
matters appear to have been coming to a conclusion, QWM hasnt shown that Mr H 
withdrew this authority, nor that he had put in place another representative.
From the paperwork Ive seen I think QWM shouldve been aware Mr H was represented by 
GCA. I say this because in addition to his LOA, Ive seen the request for information sent 
from GCA to QWM dated 27 April 2016. And Ive seen the response sent on 2 June 2016. 
Further, in its offer letter to Mr H of 5 December 2018 QWM noted the recent contact it had 
received from GCA in relation to his case.
The second problem is that QWMs redress, although putting matters right for Mr H in large 
measure, wasnt quite right. It didnt follow our usual approach to these situations, most 
significantly there was no calculation of any potential loss on investment.
We know that Mr Hs funds sat in cash while it was in his Liberty SIPP. And while I accept 
that QWM attempted to contact him about the situation several times, from what Ive seen I 
think its more likely than not he didnt really understand what he should do. And this all 
stems from the poor advice he was given at the outset.
So, Mr H mayve lost out because instead of being invested in his Aviva pension plan his 
funds were stuck in cash. There are other differences on redress for example with fees, if 
these had come from his funds as appears to have been the case then that will also have 
impacted on any investment loss calculations.GCA has asserted on Mr Hs behalf that it was QWM that advised him to switch his fund 
again from the Liberty SIPP to a new provider. QWM says Mr H had a new adviser who was 
responsible for that transaction  its adamant it had nothing to do with this subsequent 
development. 
I havent seen anything connecting QWM with the second switch. And neither party has 
been able to provide any material evidence following my provisional decision. So, for the 
purposes of this complaint Im only focussing on QWMs initial advice to Mr H.
In responding to my provisional decision, QWM largely focussed on what it says were the 
failings of GCA as a regulated firm, to follow proper complaints handling guidance as set out 
by the Financial Conduct Authority. What it asserts may or may not be the case, that is a 
matter for it to take up with GCA directly in the first instance.
Its clear theres been confusion in how Mr Hs case has been brought. For example, I can 
see another claims management company became involved at one stage, and there appear 
to have been communication issues between GCA and QWM. 
Ive also acknowledged QWM tried to put matters right for Mr H, but its redress wasnt quite 
right. Had communications with GCA been effective, I think this wouldve been picked up 
and perhaps an appropriate settlement arrived at without the need for referral to this Service.
With regards to the case in front of me from Mr H, represented by GCA, Im satisfied that a 
valid complaint has been raised by an eligible complainant against a regulated firm, within 
our permitted timescales about a regulated activity. Im also satisfied that QWM has had 
sufficient time and opportunity to make its case.
Putting things right
 Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about the advice he received from, and the arrangements 
made by, QWM to switch his personal pension into a Liberty SIPP and associated 
investments. Ive also found that the payment it made to him in relation to the transaction as 
a gesture of goodwill was insufficient to put matters right.
So, I require Quays Wealth Management Limited to put things right for Mr H in the following 
way:
Calculate a notional loss Mr H has suffered as a result of making the switch
QWM should obtain the notional value of Mr Hs Aviva Life pension plan, at the date in 
December 2016 when he transferred from his Liberty SIPP to a new provider. So, assuming 
he wouldve remained invested in the same funds and he hadnt switched from his personal 
pension plan.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index - prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market 
Income Total Return Index - should be used as Im satisfied its a reasonable proxy for the 
type of return that couldve been achieved if Mr Hs pension had remained invested in his 
previous plan.
I can see that Mr H made further contributions to his SIPP while it was with Liberty. I dont 
think he made any withdrawals. After confirming the detailed position, the value QWM 
obtains, or the calculations it makes should assume these adjustments would still have 
occurred and on the same dates.The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr Hs 
former personal pension plan and the value of his Liberty SIPP immediately prior to its 
transfer to another provider in December 2016, including any investments and cash held, will 
be his basic financial loss that QWM needs to redress.
This methodology should account for differences between the fees and charges Mr H 
wouldve incurred under his Aviva plan compared to those he incurred through the 
arrangements recommended by QWM. I understand that all of the fees were taken from his 
pension funds, so a separate calculation here shouldnt be necessary.
QWM should also pay interest on the loss calculated from the date Mr H transferred his 
funds to another SIPP provider in December 2016, until it settles at 8% simple. Income tax 
may be due on this interest. If Insight deducts tax it should provide Mr H with a tax 
certificate.
If as a result of this calculation Mr H has incurred a loss, QWM will obviously be able to 
offset this against the award its already paid him (excluding for distress and inconvenience 
which Ill cover below).
Pay an amount into Mr Hs new SIPP so that the value is increased by the loss calculated or 
pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for tax
If paying compensation into Mr Hs SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance, then it should pay him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a 
notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance for tax would reduce the amount payable.
QWM should provide details of its calculations to Mr H in a clear format.
Distress and inconvenience
QWM has already paid Mr H £350 in recognition of the things it got wrong in advising him 
about his pension arrangements. I think thats a fair award, so it doesnt need to add to this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. I require Quays Wealth 
Management Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2021.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman