DRN-3033606
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd closed his bank account with immediate effect and 
didnt initially release his funds. Hed like an apology and compensation for the impact. 
What happened
Mr H had a bank account with Monzo. 
In June and July 2020 Monzo asked Mr H some questions about his account activity, 
including what he used the account for and specifically the reason hed carried out certain 
transactions. Mr H explained that he initially opened his account for spending when on 
holiday abroad, and now he used it to transfer money to friends.
 
On 21 July 2020 Monzo restricted Mr Hs access to his account. And they asked him further 
questions about his account activity. They werent satisfied with Mr Hs response so closed 
his account on the same day with immediate notice. Mr H had just over £1,000 in his 
account at the time, and Monzo advised him that his funds would be released within four 
weeks. 
Mr H complained to Monzo about their actions in closing his account without notice, and in 
failing to release his funds. Mr Hs funds were released to him on 10 August 2020. 
Monzo investigated Mr Hs complaint, but didnt uphold it. The bank concluded theyd acted 
fairly in closing his account with immediate notice and theyd released his funds within the 
four week timeframe theyd explained. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Monzos response so complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. In summary they concluded that 
Monzo had followed their terms and conditions when closing his account with immediate 
effect  and theyd met their timescale when returning his funds. They didnt think Monzo 
needed to do anything further.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators outcome  in summary he said:
- Hes not committed any crime.
- He wouldnt be complaining if the bank had returned his funds or given him a notice 
period.
- He worked hard for his funds and shouldnt be penalised because he had funds 
elsewhere.
As Mr H didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction and closure
Although I appreciate that Mr H is unhappy that restrictions were placed on his account 
businesses have a legal obligation to protect the security of their accounts and to comply 
with various laws and regulations. Mr H agreed to this term as a customer and its a 
reasonable term. Im satisfied that Monzo were acting in line with their legal and regulatory 
obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when they 
reviewed Mr Hs account. So I dont think Monzo did anything wrong when it initially blocked 
Mr Hs account and didnt allow him access to his funds.
Ive also considered the banks actions in closing Mr Hs account by closing it with immediate 
effect. Monzo are entitled to close any account by providing 60 days notice  however to 
close an account with less notice they need to follow the specific terms listed in the section 
Closing your account. As our investigator has already shared this with both Mr H and Monzo 
I wont list them again in their entirety.
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account Im satisfied the bank has met 
this criteria, and acted within the terms of the account. I realise this will disappoint Mr H but I 
dont think the bank acted unfairly here. 
Returning of funds
At the time of Mr Hs account closure, Monzo informed Mr H theyd return his funds within 
four weeks. Mr Hs account was closed on 21 July 2020 and his funds were returned on 
10 August 2020, within 3 weeks of the account closure. I appreciate that Mr H is unhappy his 
funds werent released sooner  however having reviewed Monzos internal records Im 
satisfied that the bank were within their rights to review Mr Hs account, and ensure he was 
entitled to the funds prior to them being released. As Ive already explained they carried this 
review out within 3 weeks, and Im satisfied this is a reasonable timeframe. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking Monzo to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman