DRN-3520958
Complaint
Mr V is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him. Hes said hes never been involved in crime or fraud so HSBC recorded the 
marker incorrectly.
Background
In October 2020, Mr V received payments totalling £25,000.00 (in two separate transfers of 
£10,000.00 and £15,000.00) into his account. The funds were immediately transferred out of 
Mr Vs account, with £10,000.00 being transferred to another of Mr Vs accounts. HSBC 
subsequently received a notification from the bank responsible for sending the payments 
stating that the funds were fraudulent. As a result, HSBC reviewed Mr Vs account, decided 
to close it and also record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning about the fraud prevention marker, Mr V complained that this was applied 
unfairly. HSBC looked at Mr Vs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr V remained dissatisfied 
he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Vs concerns. She didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr V unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr V disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr V is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Vs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
HSBC also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr V was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr V allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Vs complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Vs account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that HSBC did have enough to 
record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Vs 
account in December 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr V was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr V initially told HSBC that his brother-in law sent the funds in order for him to purchase 
items in Africa as he was just about to take a trip there. When he spoke to our adjudicator, 
Mr V said his brother-in-law asked if he could send the funds to him so that he could convert 
them into a foreign currency. He went on to say that he never asked his brother-in-law how 
much he was sending or what the funds were for. Mr Vs brother-in-laws friend then sent 
him £25,000.00 and he wasnt expecting to receive so much. He finally said that he 
transferred £10,000.00 to his other bank account because of the transfer limit on his HSBC 
account. Mr V also provided some screenshots showing some currency purchases.    
Ive thought about what Mr V has said. But some of what Mr V has said doesnt quite add up 
here. For example, Mr V has said that he sent £10,000.00 of the funds to another of his 
accounts because of the daily transfer limit on his HSBC account. But the second payment 
was received on a different day from the first one. So the limit wouldnt have applied and, in 
any event, he still ended up transferring £10,000.00 anyway. Furthermore, while its fair to 
say that a significant proportion of the funds were used for foreign currency purchases, 
approximately 10% of the funds were sent on to another third-party account in the United 
Kingdom (UK). 
Im also concerned that Mr V appears to have initially told HSBC that he was going to make 
purchases in Africa, where he was about to take a trip, with the funds and then told our 
adjudicator he was transferring funds outside of the UK. Finally, Mr V told our adjudicator he 
was only expecting to receive a few hundred pounds from his brother-in-law. Yet he still 
proceeded with transferring the funds, without question, even though it ended up being 
someone he didnt know who transferred £25,000.00 to him. The sheer mismatch between 
what Mr V was expecting to receive and what was actually transferred to his account, means 
that he ought to have appreciated that the significant risk that the funds may have been 
coming from and being forwarded on to illegitimate sources.  
Im afraid the implausibility of Mr Vs version of events, the credits being for amounts that he 
wasnt expecting and being made by a party who wasnt the person Mr V says he was 
expecting and a reasonable proportion of the funds not being used to purchase currency, all 
mean that I cant reasonably conclude that Mr V was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I 
think its more likely than not he was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that HSBC did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Vs account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr V was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for HSBC to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. I now turn to the closure of Mr Vs account. I know that since his complaint has been with us 
Mr V has said he accepts HSBC doesnt have to provide him with an account. But for the 
sake of completeness and as it formed part of Mr Vs initial complaint, I think its worth me 
explaining that the terms and conditions of Mr Vs account permitted HSBC to close it where 
he was accessing or using an account, service or money illegally or fraudulently (or have 
done this in the past) or he was allowing someone else to do this. 
Ive already explained why I think HSBC was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr Vs 
account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in 
recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much 
the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted HSBC to close Mr Vs account. 
Overall I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly towards Mr V when recording the fraud marker 
or closing his account and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr V  especially in light of the ongoing impact hes said the fraud marker 
is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at 
least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Furthermore, Mr V might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman