DRN-1983321
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly 
declined a terminal illness claim and gave them poor customer service in relation to that.
They are represented by their son, but to avoid confusion Ill refer only to Mr and Mrs O.
What happened
In 2004 Mr and Mrs O took out a level term assurance policy with an expiry date of               
1 September 2019. It provided a benefit of £80,000 if either of them died before the policy 
expired. Or if either of them were diagnosed with a terminal illness at least eighteen months 
before the policy expired - in other words, before 1 March 2018. 
Mr O was sadly diagnosed with a right temporal glioblastoma (brain tumour) in October 2017 
and underwent treatment. Mr and Mrs O say that at that time they were too upset to ask 
Mr Os consultant for a prognosis, or to progress a claim with L&G. 
On 15 July 2019, Mr and Mrs O called L&G to make a claim for Mr O under the terminal 
illness part of the policy. They were unhappy with the customer service L&G provided in that 
call, so they sent it a written complaint on 20 July 2019. And over the following months 
Mr and Mrs O had further correspondence with L&G about their claim and complaint. 
After getting the opinion of its Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and a third party, L&G told 
Mr and Mrs O on 6 November 2019 that it had declined their claim because Mr O didnt meet 
the policys terminal illness definition. Mr and Mrs O asked L&G to reconsider and provided 
further comments from Mr Os consultants in support of their claim.
On 30 December 2019 L&G gave Mr and Mrs O its final response to their complaint. It said it 
had reviewed things but hadnt changed its position about their claim, because it hadnt been 
able to confirm Mr Os life expectancy was no greater than twelve months prior to March 
2018 - its CMO said the published data for patients like Mr O, with MCMT methylation and 
the same clinical treatment, showed a median life expectancy of 21.7 months. Its CMO said 
if L&G had assessed a terminal illness claim for Mr O in early 2018, it would have deferred 
the claim until Mr Os disease progressed after treatment, because his life expectancy may 
at that point have likely been no greater than twelve months. 
But L&G said that in the call on 15 July 2019, it shouldve explained it would consider a 
retrospective terminal illness claim if medical evidence suggested Mr O mightve met the 
policy definition before March 2018, and shouldve also logged a complaint for 
Mr and Mrs O. It apologised and offered £250 for the distress and inconvenience this caused 
them.
Mr and Mrs O remained unhappy so they referred their complaint to our service. They said 
that when Mr O was diagnosed in October 2017, he was given a life expectancy of less than 
twelve months. And while Mr O had survived longer than that, L&G should recognise the 
medical opinion of Mr Os three consultants and pay the claim, as they think L&G would 
have done if theyd claimed when Mr O was first diagnosed. Mr and Mrs O also said L&Gs 
poor customer service led to delays, and that it had failed to keep them informed or call them 
back as promised.
Our investigator contacted Mr and Mrs O and L&G about this complaint. And Mr and Mrs O 
gave further comments and evidence, the key points of which I think can be summarised as:
It wasnt true Mr O wasnt given a terminal diagnosis. He was told it was incurable, 
which is the same as terminal. And L&G defined these as the same in the policy. 
Mr Os consultant said no oncologist would provide a clear and unwavering view that 
prognosis was less than twelve months at diagnosis, as theyd need to see how a 
patient responded to active treatment. But that there was a very significant 
possibility/probability that a patient will succumb within a year of diagnosis with an 
invariably fatal outcome 
L&Gs CMO had ignored the opinion of the three consultants whod treated Mr O. 
L&G wouldve paid if theyd claimed at time of diagnosis, and the policy documents 
didnt say it could defer a claim.
If theres any doubt about a claim, the consumer should have the benefit of the doubt.
L&G accepted its customer service in the 15 July 2019 call was poor but hadnt 
addressed or offered compensation for other failures including breaching complaint 
timescales, and not calling back when it promised or when it was asked to.
L&G said the further comments provided by Mr and Mrs Os consultant didnt change its 
position and supported what it had said  that a confirmed prognosis of less than twelve 
months wasnt present on diagnosis and would depend on Mr Os response to treatment.
Ultimately, our investigator thought L&G hadnt acted unfairly in relying on the policy terms or 
on the opinion of its CMO. And she thought it hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim, as 
she didnt think there was enough evidence to show Mr O was given a life expectancy of 
twelve months or less before the last eighteen months of the policy. But she said L&G 
should have explained in the call on 15 July 2019 that a retrospective claim was possible, 
and logged a complaint. She said this initially delayed L&G addressing the claim and the 
complaint, but it then assessed the claim in a reasonable timeframe. She thought the £250 
L&G had already offered was reasonable compensation for this and for general 
inconvenience during the claim process. 
Mr and Mrs O disagreed. They provided further comments from Mr Os consultant to support 
their claim. And they said the crux of the matter was whether the opinion of Mr Os 
consultants should overturn the opinion of L&Gs CMO. As Mr and Mrs O disagreed, this 
complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Im very sorry to hear of Mr Os worsening health, and I 
realise my decision will be a great disappointment to Mr and Mrs O and their family at an 
already very upsetting and difficult time.
Before I explain my decision, Id like to be clear that I wont address each and every point 
raised by Mr and Mrs O, or L&G. I mean no disrespect by this, and I have considered all the 
arguments, comments and medical evidence provided to our service in this complaint. But 
my decision will only address what I think is relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome. terminal illness claim
Its not in dispute that Mr O was diagnosed with a glioblastoma in October 2017. Whats in 
dispute is whether he met the policys terminal illness definition. That definition says:
If either Life Assured has a Terminal Illness, namely an advanced or rapidly progressing 
incurable illness where, in the opinion of an attending Consultant and our Chief Medical 
Officer, the life expectancy is no greater than 12 months, Legal & General will make an 
advance payment of the Sum Assured. This benefit will not be available during the 18 
months immediately before the Expiry Date. Once the payment has been made the policy 
will terminate and no further benefit will be payable.
So for a claim to be successful, Mr Os consultant and L&Gs CMO have to be in agreement 
that Mr O had a life expectancy no greater than twelve months before 1 March 2018. But 
L&G doesnt agree that he did. In thinking about whether it was reasonable for L&G to reach 
this conclusion, Ive considered Mr Os medical records from the time. 
They show that Mr Os clinical oncologist wrote to his GP on 9 November 2017, shortly after 
he was diagnosed. The letter said Opinion and Plan: They are aware that he has an 
incurable malignant primary tumour of the brain with treatment geared towards disease 
control for as long as possible. He has had an excellent debulking and the plan now would 
be to deliver concomitant chemoradiotherapy followed by adjuvant Temozolomide for up to 6 
months with a view to disease control for as long as possible. They have not enquired about 
prognosis today. Median survival is 14 months with this combination, 2 years survival around 
25%. So around the time of diagnosis, Mr Os oncologist noted the treatment planned for 
Mr O had an expected median survival of 14 months. 
And Mr Os medical  records  suggest  he had a good  response  to that treatment  with no 
disease  progression  until significantly  after 1 March  2018,  although  I do appreciate  Mr O 
was unwell  and experiencing  symptoms  of both the glioblastoma  and treatment.  I say 
that because  a review letter from Mr Os neurosurgeon to his GP on 20 January 2018 says 
Mr O was recently diagnosed with right temporal glioblastoma with significant mass effect 
into the brain which has been well debulked The letter goes on to say I am pleased with 
the outcome of this procedure and [Mr Os] response to chemoradiotherapy so far.
Notes of an MRI dated 12 March 2018 say Conclusion: Appearances indicate continuing 
postoperative improvement. And Mr Os consultant wrote to his GP on 26 March 2018 
saying, I also had a look at his imaging with him and actually his post-radiotherapy MRI 
scan has less contrast enhancement than his treatment planning scan, indicating response 
to treatment. I have told him this is usually a base line scan for the future in any case and we 
would continue with his chemotherapy and rescan him in 3 months' time.
And Mr Os consultant wrote to his GP on 11 September 2018, saying I reviewed this 
gentleman with his wife today in clinic he remains well. On examination of his recent imaging 
I can see no evidence of disease progression and discussed this encouraging finding with 
the patient. We await the radiologist formal report however. And a hospital discharge letter 
for Mr O dated 22 September 2018 says CT brain carried out no change from previous scan 
- no evidence of disease progression. 
So while I acknowledge Mr and Mrs O say Mr O was given a prognosis of less than twelve 
months when he was diagnosed, I cant fairly say that his medical records of the time 
support that. However, Mr Os consultants have provided further comments and suggest 
there are factors specific to Mr O that meant he might not do as well as the published 
statistics would indicate:On 30 July 2019 Mr Os consultant says This gentleman was diagnosed with a 
glioblastoma on 23 October 2017. In my opinion this would be a "terminal diagnosis" 
with a potential prognosis of less than 12 moths [sic] from the date of diagnosis.
A letter dated 11 November 2019 says On review of your case notes with the neuro-
oncology team, we would suggest that your likely prognosis measured from time of 
diagnosis in view of your MGMT methylated, IDH wild type is consistent with 12 months. 
Additional factors which influence this are the lack of an IDH1 mutation and your 
relatively impaired performance status at diagnosis.
The letter dated 12 November 2019 says the median survival figure of 14 months noted 
in Mr Os medical records at diagnosis was only to give Mr Os GP a general feel of the 
likely course of Mr Os disease, and that There is no doubt that faced with a patient with 
the clinical features of [Mr O] at diagnosis in November 2017, I would have absolutely 
no hesitation with stating that there was a reasonable degree of probability that they 
would succumb to their disease with [sic] a 12 month period. The letter goes on to say 
The prognostic nature of the glioblastoma diagnosis is invariably fatal  a period of 
prolong [sic] disease stability can indeed result from aggressive radical treatment at 
diagnosis, but the survival on progression is almost invariably very short and measures 
no more than a few months and this is true of whether the response to the primary 
treatment is no more than a few weeks or stretches to 2 or more years. Accurate 
predicting survival of patient at diagnosis is therefore nearly impossible
And on 5 May 2020, Mr Os consultant said no oncologist would ever provide a clear 
and unwavering view that anyones prognosis was less than 12 months at the time of 
diagnosis due to the uncertain response to active treatment, but that there was a very 
significant possibility/probability that a patient will succumb within a year of diagnosis 
with an invariably fatal outcome They later confirmed they couldnt expand further, 
saying I know the company keep demanding we state he had a life expectancy of 12 
months or similar at diagnosis, but thats not how we quote prognoses as explained in 
the letter.
It seems to me that with these further comments, Mr Os consultants are essentially saying 
that glioblastoma has an invariably fatal outcome and might mean someone has less than 
twelve months to live, but that this couldnt be said with certainty at diagnosis because the 
prognosis would depend on how well the patient responded to treatment. And that factors 
specific to Mr O mean his life expectancy might be less than the statistics would suggest.
But I dont think these further comments suggest Mr O was given a prognosis of no greater 
than twelve months to live when he was diagnosed, as Mr and Mrs O have said. And Mr Os 
medical records, which are specific to him, show that he was responding to treatment and 
there was no disease progression before 1 March 2018. I think the further comments from 
Mr Os consultants instead supports L&Gs position, that it would have deferred the claim. 
Mr and Mrs O have said deferment isnt set out in the policy documents, so L&G is adding 
new conditions to their claim. But the purpose of policy documents is to set out what events 
are covered and under what circumstances a claim can be paid - I wouldnt expect them to 
set out a businesss internal claims handling process. I therefore cant agree that L&G is 
attempting to add new conditions by saying it would defer. And in light of what Mr Os 
consultant says about prognosis depending on treatment, I dont think its unreasonable for 
L&G to say it would have deferred a claim to see how Mr O responded to treatment.Mr and Mrs O say it wasnt true Mr O wasnt given a terminal diagnosis. They say he was 
told it was incurable, which is the same as terminal and that L&G defines them the same in 
the policy definitions. I think Mr and Mrs O are referring here to the policys terminal illness 
definition, as Ive not seen that the policy documents define incurable or terminal anywhere 
else. The terminal illness definition does mention incurable but this is as one part of a wider 
definition which also requires the attending consultant and L&Gs CMO to agree that life 
expectancy is no greater than twelve months. So I cant fairly say the policy defines 
incurable and terminal as the same thing. 
Mr and Mrs O also say L&G has ignored Mr Os consultants, that the crux of the matter is 
whether Mr Os consultants should overturn L&Gs CMO, and that where theres any doubt 
about a claim, the consumer should be given the benefit of the doubt. But I dont think 
theres any such doubt here - based on Mr Os medical records and the further comments 
from his consultants, Im satisfied it was reasonable for L&G to conclude Mr O hadnt met the 
policys terminal illness definition before 1 March 2018 and to decline his claim. Therefore, I 
wont be asking L&G to do anything further about the claim, though I realise this isnt the 
answer Mr and Mrs O hoped for.
customer service
L&G accepts it made errors in the call on 15 July 2019 by not explaining it could consider a 
retrospective claim and by not logging a complaint. Ive listened to that call, and I think that 
L&G should have got both a claim and a complaint underway for Mr and Mrs O at that point. 
Instead, it did so after they emailed on 20 July 2019. 
Over the following months, there was ongoing communication between Mr and Mrs O and 
L&G about their claim and complaint. On 23 August 2019 L&Gs complaint handler emailed 
Mr and Mrs O to say theyd reviewed L&Gs records but wanted to get a further medical view 
from its CMO before providing a complaint response. Mr and Mrs O asked for an update a 
week later, and L&G said it was still waiting for the CMO and asked Mr and Mrs O to provide 
clinic letters, as the further detail they might include would allow its CMO to give a more 
informed opinion. Mr and Mrs O provided clinic and other letters, and said they were happy 
for L&G to contact Mr Os consultant directly. A few days later, L&G confirmed it would like to 
ask Mr Os treating consultant for more information so it could assess the claim and asked 
Mr and Mrs O to complete authority forms. L&G wrote to Mr Os consultant and GP soon 
after, on 9 September 2019.
On 10 September 2019 L&G wrote to Mr and Mrs O with an update, saying Thank you for 
taking the time to speak with me on 19 August 2019 and making time to provide me with 
further information about [Mr Os] diagnosis, prognosis and treatment. It went to say, While 
you are satisfied that we are considering a retrospective terminal illness claim, you have 
asked that I do not provide my final response to your complaint until our claims department 
have confirmed their decision. As we will have received your complaint 56 days ago on 13 
September 2019, I am obliged to provide you with information about the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. And it went on to give Mr and Mrs O referral rights to our service. 
On 8 October L&G told Mr and Mrs O it had received the information from Mr Os consultant 
and would pass that on to its CMO for their review and opinion as a priority. I think L&G 
caused a slight delay here, as it didnt pass this to its CMO until 14 October 2019. 
L&G told Mr and Mrs O it had declined the claim on 6 November 2019, and they asked it to 
reconsider and escalate matters or theyd refer it to our service. It seems L&G agreed to do 
so but when Mr and Mrs O when Mr and Mrs O asked about timescales, L&G didnt respond 
until almost three weeks later, when Mr and Mrs O emailed it to chase and to say they hoped 
to resolve things directly with L&G rather than refer to our service. I think L&G could have responded sooner here, and I cant see that it updated or contacted Mr and Mrs O again until 
it sent them its final response to their complaint on 30 December 2019.
Under the timescales set out by the Financial Conduct Authority, L&G had eight weeks to 
give Mr and Mrs O its final response to their complaint and referral rights to our service. 
I think L&G should have raised the complaint on 15 July 2019, so it should have given its 
final response by 9 September 2019. L&G didnt give Mr and Mrs O referral rights to our 
service until 10 September 2019 and while this is a delay, its not one that I think is 
significant or warrants an award of compensation. And L&G didnt give its complaint 
response until 30 December 2019. But its correspondence with Mr and Mrs O suggests it 
held off giving its response because Mr and Mrs O wanted it to have considered their claim 
first. So I dont think it would be fair to say L&G had done anything wrong there. In any case, 
Ive seen that L&G had already given Mr and Mrs O referral rights to our service but they 
wanted L&G to itself reconsider before referring their complaint to us.
As Ive said, I think L&G should have got the claim underway on 15 July 2019. And it first 
told Mr and Mrs O it had declined the claim on 6 November 2019. So it took L&G about 
16 weeks to decide their claim. Overall, I dont think this was an unreasonably long time, as 
L&G needed to get completed claim and authority forms, further information from Mr Os 
doctors and medical opinion from its CMO and a third party, which would necessarily take 
time. And apart from the small delay Ive mentioned in passing the consultants information to 
its CMO, I dont think L&G caused any significant unnecessary delays during this time. 
Mr and Mrs O asked L&G to reconsider its decision on 7 November 2019 and it told them the 
outcome of that on 30 December 2019, so it took about seven weeks. During that time, it 
considered further information from Mr Os consultant and got further medical opinion from 
its CMO and a third party. So overall, I dont think it took unreasonably long time to 
reconsider the claim.  
But as Ive said, L&G did make some customer service errors - it didnt explain about a 
retrospective claim or log a complaint as it should have on 15 July 2019, there were some 
occasions where it didnt response to Mr and Mrs O and keep them updated as it should 
have, and one occasion where it didnt pass on information to its CMO as quickly as it could 
have. So there were some times where Mr and Mrs O were caused inconvenienced by 
having to chase things up with L&G. But I think the £250 compensation L&G has already 
offered is fair and reasonable compensation for any distress, frustration and inconvenience 
this caused them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. But I am aware that Legal 
and General Assurance Society Limited has made an offer to pay £250. I conclude that such 
an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited should pay Mr & Mrs O £250.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman