DRN-3966191
The complaint
The trustees of a charitable trust which Ill refer to as D complain that Lloyds Bank Plc 
(Lloyds) have declined to pay interest on Ds current account with the bank (the Account)    
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties. So, I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly, one of the trustees Mr D has told us that:
The trustees have been longstanding customers of Lloyds during which time they 
have held the Account.  
In April 2022, the trustees cashed in certain investments that were held by D and 
paid the proceeds into the Account. That had the effect of increasing the balance 
significantly to an amount in excess of £327,000. 
The trustees acknowledge the bank hadnt ever paid interest on the Account. But 
they were largely unconcerned due to the relatively modest historic balance.  
Nonetheless the increase in the balance following the large deposit amplified what 
they regarded as an unfairness in the way the Account had been treated. They 
argued that if the bank was prepared to change its position and pay a relatively 
modest rate of interest on the Account, that would, in turn, generate an appreciable 
return that could be used by the trustees to benefit good causes. 
By way of a solution, Lloyds invited the trustees to open an interest earning savings 
account on behalf of D. But the trustees didnt think this was an acceptable solution.  
Lloyds, therefore, maintained their position and declined to pay interest on the 
Account. They said they took a business decision not to pay interest on such 
accounts and were unprepared to depart from that position. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response the trustees referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said decisions on which of 
their accounts are interest bearing are business decisions Lloyds are entitled to make and 
not ones, as a service, we can challenge.  She said, she found no evidence suggesting the 
trustees were told the Account was interest bearing. Overall, therefore, in the circumstances 
of the case, she wasnt persuaded Lloyds had made an error or treated the trustees unfairly.  
The trustees didnt accept the investigators conclusions. On their behalf Mr D has made the 
following further comments  which I summarise: 
The bank is failing in its duty to operate a fair policy across its customer base. It is 
unfair that Lloyds should be allowed to pay interest on an account belonging to him 
and yet refuse to pay interest on the Account. In effect therefore, there is a 
discrepancy in the service and treatment by Lloyds as between their account holding 
customers.
Having another account running alongside the Account would mean extra 
administrative steps for the trustees to take in order to access Ds funds. In other 
words, if funds were placed in the savings account and some of it was needed 
urgently to benefit a good cause, there could be a delay in the transfer of such funds 
over to the Account to be paid out. If the bank were prepared to reverse its position 
and pay interest on the Account, administratively, that would make matters much 
easier for the trustees to manage the affairs of D.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point is to consider whether Lloyds had given the trustees any undertaking they 
would pay interest on the Account. But Ive seen no evidence to that effect. The terms and 
conditions of the Account which governs the relationship between the trustees and the bank 
makes no reference to interest being paid on it. 
In fairness to the trustees, that is not the basis of their case. In other words that Lloyds 
reneged on an agreement to pay interest on the Account. Theyve made a broader point, 
rooted in what they regard as the fairness of the banks overall position of paying interest on 
some of their accounts and not others. So, Ive thought about that. 
  
Decisions regarding the rates of interest, if any, that Lloyds ought to pay on their accounts, 
are a matter of commercial judgement on the banks part. And generally speaking, its not 
my role to interfere with that judgement. Im not a regulator, so its no part of my role as 
ombudsman to tell the bank which of its account it ought to pay interest. Against that 
background, what I can do is assess whether the bank has exercised its discretion fairly. In 
the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that it has, and Ill explain why. 
It is Lloyds case that they took a business decision not to pay interest on accounts of the 
same type as the Account. That leads me to conclude that the trustees are not being treated 
unfairly when compared to other customers within the same category. I have not been 
persuaded that Lloyds have acted unfairly towards the trustees even if in relation to accounts 
held by its personal customers like Mr D, commercially the bank has chosen a different 
approach which it is entitled to do. 
I sympathise with the trustees position that given the balance in the Account, a modest rate 
of interest would generate a return that could be used to benefit more good causes. 
But I note that Lloyds did go some way towards meeting the trustees concerns in that regard 
by suggesting an alternative account offering a return. That seems to me not an 
unreasonable way of resolving the trustees primary concern regarding the lack of interest on 
the balance held with the bank. 
I appreciate it is the trustees position that this solution is less appealing. In particular, as 
theyve argued, because it would mean having to move funds between accounts, meaning 
accessing Ds funds would become less seamless administratively. However, it is not clear to me that the extra administrative step that would be involved so 
outweighs the likely benefit if the trustees were to accept the banks proposal. Ultimately that 
is a matter for the trustees. But overall, Ive not been persuaded the bank has done anything 
wrong or more to the point that in the circumstances of this case that it has treated the 
trustees unfairly. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman