DRN-1738691
 
The complaint
Mr C made a claim against his motor insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc. He said 
they undervalued his car after it was declared a total loss and then cancelled his policy.
What happened
Mr C claimed against his car insurance policy after his car was vandalised in January 2020. 
AXA instructed their assessors to visit his property to inspect the car. He said the assessor 
didnt show up on the agreed day, so he complained to AXA. 
AXA said the assessor did come to the property, but no one was at home, so he took a 
picture of the front door and left. They sent Mr C the picture taken. He said this wasnt his 
front door and that the assessor was deliberately acting fraudulently. 
AXA accepted that the assessor hadnt attended Mr Cs property and paid the claim in full 
based on the details of damage Mr C had provided. They declared the car a total loss and 
valued the car at £972. The offered him £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered. AXA said the policy terms said they needed to settle the claim 
using the market value of the car at the time it was damaged. So, they offered to settle the 
claim on a value of £972 less £200 excess and £165 to reflect the salvage value, as Mr C 
wanted to keep the car.
Mr C felt AXA had undervalued his car and the compensation offered was insufficient. He 
said he wanted to retain his car but should still be paid the full car value without deductions. 
He expected to be paid £1,172 being £972 the car valuation, plus £200 compensation. 
Mr C also says AXA unfairly cancelled his insurance policy and refused to reimburse him the 
outstanding annual premium for the remainder of the policy. AXA said theyd made the 
decision to cancel Mr Cs insurance policy due to his abusive behaviour with members of 
their staff. Mr C denies this and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said the policy terms made it clear that any amount paid would be no more 
than the market value of the car. She concluded that AXA had offered Mr C market value of 
the car and that the deductions made where all within the terms and conditions of the policy. 
She also said AXA had cancelled the insurance according to the terms of the policy. She 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C didnt agree with the investigator and so this has come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think it should be 
upheld. I will explain why. 
damage to the car and the assessors visitMr C feels AXA are deliberately refusing to accept that the assessor sent a fraudulent picture 
claiming it was his front door. AXA have accepted in their final response letter that the 
assessor failed to go to Mr Cs home to inspect the damage to his car. The incorrect door 
picture could have been explained as human error. Mr C also later told this service that his 
tyres had been slashed and his brakes damaged. But, as the car was declared a total loss, I 
dont feel we need to consider further details of damage to the car. 
I understand Mr Cs frustration with whats happened, particularly as his wife waited at home 
all day for the assessor. I also know hes not happy with the way AXA have dealt with his 
claim, but AXA have in their response to Mr C, agreed to pay his claim in full. Theyve done 
this without any inspection of the car solely based on the damage he described. The total 
claim amount was agreed and has been paid to Mr C. They also paid him £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of the assessor 
failing to attend his property. So, I think what AXA has done is reasonable and I dont feel 
any further compensation is appropriate. 
valuation
The investigator has explained this services approach to complaints about car valuations by 
insurers in that we dont provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers 
valuation is reasonable. So, Ive looked at what Mr Cs insurance policy says AXA will do in 
this situation. The policy terms and conditions say: 
 We will pay for loss of or damage to 1. Your car
We may choose to replace them, to repair them or pay an amount equal to the loss or 
damage.
We will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss less any 
excesses.
Market value  the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model 
and of a similar age, mileage and condition at the time of the accident or loss. The market 
value may also be affected by other factors such as a valid MOT, how you purchased your 
car 
Mr Cs car was declared a total loss, so the policy provides for payment of the cars market 
value to be paid less the policy excess. The policy terms say what market value is  the cost 
of replacing the car with another of the same make and model and of a similar age and 
condition at the time of the accident or loss. 
In assessing what we consider to be market value, we obtain valuations from motor trade 
guides. We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations 
are based on nationwide research of likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations as well as the cars make, model and other specifications. So, we 
generally find them to be more reliable than other resources such as adverts. 
AXA considered valuations given by the same three trade guides weve used. And both we 
and AXA have excluded the lowest guide value of £692 when working out a reasonable 
market value is. Generally, if one of the motor trade guides is out of line - that includes both 
higher and lower than the other valuations, our service would say that its reasonable for the 
insurer to exclude it when coming to their valuation. This is on the basis that for some 
reason, that particular guide is much less likely to be providing an accurate valuation. Our investigator checked the valuations of Mr Cs car and she also thought AXAs market 
value was fair. I can see that she checked for the correct make, model, mileage and options 
as Mr Cs car. I can see that the settlement that AXA offered is the average of the two higher 
valuations provided by the trade guides we use. The two valuations used are £918 and 
£1025. The average of the two valuations is £971.50. AXA valued the car at £972.
deductions
Mr C chose to retain the car and so AXA were entitled to retain the salvage. The policy terms 
say that if they pay the market value of the insured car, The salvage of your car becomes 
our property after your claim is settled. This means technically AXA could have kept Mr Cs 
car. But our approach is to say its fair and reasonable for the insurer to allow their 
policyholder to keep the damaged car. But, if they do decide to do this, it is reasonable for 
the insurer to deduct what theyd have got if theyd kept it and sold it as salvage. AXA has 
said it would have got 17% of the market value of the car and thats why theyve deducted 
£165. And I think this is fair. 
AXA also deducted the policy excess of £200, as allowed in the terms and conditions of the 
policy  this is £100 voluntary excess and £100 compulsory excess. And, as this is clearly 
set out in the policy terms, Im satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to do this. They offered 
Mr C the balance of £607 after deducting the salvage and excess, which I think was in line 
with the policy terms and fair in the circumstances. And this means I dont think its 
appropriate for me to make AXA increase their settlement offer. 
cancellation
Mr Cs policy terms do allow AXA to cancel his policy in certain circumstances. Included in a 
list of reasons is the use of threatening or abusive behaviour. Section 12 of the policy 
booklet says, We may cancel your policy (f) if you use threatening or abusive behaviour or 
language towards our staff or suppliers. 
So, Ive considered if AXA cancelled the policy fairly and in line with these terms and 
conditions. They say there have been many examples of inappropriate behaviour from Mr C 
in phone calls and on email to members of staff. So, they decided to issue a 21 day 
cancellation notice in March 2020 and cancelled his insurance policy in April 2020. 
Theyve provided a call recording in which they say Mr C has used inappropriate language. I 
have listened to this call and agree the language used is inappropriate. So, I think AXAs 
decision to cancel the policy was in line with the policy terms and fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ive also considered what Mr C says about the fees that have been deducted from the refund 
of premium due to him. The policy terms outline the cancellation fees that will be charged. 
Under section 15. Fees the policy terms say, If we cancel your policy the cancellation fee 
will be £52.50. So, AXA have deducted this fee of £52.50 from the refund of premium due in 
line with the policy terms. The annual premium paid for insurance was £248.30 for the period 
of August 2019 to August 2020. The policy was cancelled in April 2020. Mr C says he was 
expecting a refund of £103.96. But I have calculated the refund as below:
£248.31(annual premium) / 366 (annual cover) x 119 (days of cover left) = £80.73 
Less £52.50 (cancellation fee) = £28.24 refund due.
I understand that this is the refund amount already paid to Mr C in addition to £607 for the 
value of the car and £100 compensation. Im satisfied that AXA have acted in a fair and reasonable manner in cancelling the policy and the amount paid to Mr C, so I wont be 
asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint against AXA 
Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman