DRN-3470212
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC has recorded a fraud marker against his name and 
wont remove it.
What happened
On 27 December 2018 Mr S received a credit of £2,180 into his current account. Lloyds 
received a report that this was a fraudulent credit; another person had been tricked into 
sending the money to Mr S account.
Lloyds asked Mr S where the money had come from. He told the bank hed sold a car and 
that the money hed received had been from the sale. 
Lloyds asked Mr S to provide evidence that hed sold a car. But, despite being given several 
weeks to do so, Mr S couldnt provide anything. This led to Lloyds removing funds from his 
account to return to the scam victim. It also closed Mr S account and logged a fraud marker 
with CIFAS, a fraud prevention agency.
Mr S has said hes since had difficulty in opening an account elsewhere and this is badly 
affecting his ability to find work.
He lodged a complaint with Lloyds, but it maintained its position. Mr S then brought his 
complaint to our service where it was considered by one of our investigators.
She didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr S still couldnt provide any evidence of 
the sale of the car and went on to say that the money had actually come from a friend who 
lent it to him as he needed to pay for flights. Mr S explained the friend had told Mr S to tell 
him hed sold a car if asked by the bank. Hes not been able to provide any evidence of 
conversations with the friend, or detail of who it is.
She said that because Mr S version of events had changed, and because hed provided no 
evidence to show where the money had come from, Lloyds had acted fairly and reasonably 
in registering his details with CIFAS.
Mr S asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and so its been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr S complaint and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. Ive 
no doubt the CIFAS marker is causing Mr S difficulties and I can imagine hes going through 
a challenging time. 
I also dont doubt that he has regret in doing what he did in December 2018, whatever his 
level of involvement might have been. But it remains the case that Lloyds have acted fairly 
and reasonably in recording the CIFAS marker.
In order to record a CIFAS marker for misuse of facility, as is the case here, Lloyds must be 
able to show a number of requirements have been met. The two most important to this case, 
in terms of whats at the heart of the dispute, are:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime has 
been committed or attempted;
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the Subject to the police (but theres no obligation to 
make that report);
Im satisfied these criteria are met. Mr S received a fraudulent credit into his account after 
someone fell victim to a scam. Mr S has said he had no idea the money had come from a 
scam victim. But he hasnt been able to provide or evidence a reasonable explanation for the 
source of the funds.
Mr S first told Lloyds that hed sold a car. He maintained this version of events for some time 
and following questioning from the bank. When challenged to provide evidence of the sale 
he said he couldnt do so. There was no mention of borrowing money from a friend.
Before Mr S complaint was considered by this service he spoke to the bank again on 
several occasions. This was in May 2021 when he was taking his complaint forward. Lloyds 
has notes of two conversations held with Mr S. Its evident from these notes that Mr S 
changed his version of events:
On 11 May 2021 Mr S said he assumed the money that had gone into his account 
had been from his training course and hed gone on to spend it
On 12 May 2021 Mr S told the bank he didnt know about the credit and spent it 
without realizing.
Mr S only introduced the detail that hed borrowed money from a friend when he brought the 
complaint to us. The evidence doesnt show any previous mention of such a person, that 
Mr S needed to borrow money for flights, or that someone else had told him to lie about 
where the money had come from. Its also difficult to understand why Mr S would feel the 
need to tell the bank anything other than (what he now says) is the truth.
These shifting versions of events mean its not possible to say with any certainty that Mr S 
innocently received the fraudulent funds into his account.
Ive also considered the other activity on Mr S account once the fraudulent money was 
received. I can see that a total of £500 was quickly withdrawn from a cash machine. There 
were also attempts to spend at merchants (including a sportswear store), with some of those 
transactions debiting the account much later. I can see no attempt to purchase flights. 
These do not seem to be the actions of someone who has unknowingly received money into 
their account. Instead it suggests attempts to spend the funds as quickly as possible. And 
even with this spending Mr S version of events has differed. At times hes said he carried 
out the transactions, at others that it was the friend who had lent him the money.
Its not possible for me to determine exactly whats happened here and its not necessary for 
me to do so. Having considered all the available evidence, Im satisfied Lloyds has acted 
fairly and reasonably in maintaining the CIFAS marker.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman