DRN-4027314
The complaint
Mr A complains that MBNA Limited lent to him irresponsibly when it gave him a credit card.
What happened
Mr A took out a credit card with MBNA in June 2016. It had a credit limit of £7,500 which was 
never increased.
 
Mr A says that MBNA failed to conduct sufficient checks on him individual financial position. 
He thinks if MBNA had made reasonable checks it would have realised he would struggle to 
repay the credit.
 
Our adjudicator thought Mr As complaint should be upheld. Our investigator thought that Mr 
A was over-indebted elsewhere and MBNA shouldnt have lent to him.
 
MBNA disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. When I reviewed Mr 
As complaint I came to a different view. I didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld, 
although I indicated to Mr A that if he was able to provide me with further information I would 
reconsider that provisional decision. 
Mr A didnt respond to my provisional decision. MBNA agreed with my provisional decision. 
This means I didnt have any reason to change my decision. Ive explained my decision in 
full below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr As complaint.
MBNA had to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could 
afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such has how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr As income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that MBNA should fairly and reasonable have done 
more to establish that  for example, if the results of the initial checks showed areas of 
concern. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MBNA said that it completed credit checks before it lent to Mr A which provided no reason 
for concern. It doesnt have a record of all of the results of those checks given the time which 
has passed since then, but it does say that it checked Mr As income with him verbally. I can 
see from MBNAs records that Mr A had in the region of £10,000 outstanding debt at the 
time of the application, some of which was for a car loan which was due to be paid off in a 
few months time. Most of the rest of his debt (c. £8,800) appears to have been for a loan/s 
or hire purchase agreement/s. Having said this, I can see that Mr A immediately made 
several balance transfers totalling around £5,500 to his credit card and it is not entirely clear 
where those balances had been transferred from. I invited both parties to provide any 
evidence they had in relation to these balance transfers. MBNA didnt have a record, given 
the time which had passed, and Mr A didnt respond. 
The size of the initial limit was relatively high. But Mr A declared a high income which it 
seems MBNA verified verbally with Mr A. Mr A has also told this service that he was earning 
this amount. MBNA was entitled to rely on the information Mr A supplied to it. MBNA also 
used data provided by Transunion to estimate Mr As expenditure. 
Given Mr As existing borrowing and declared income at the time of application I dont think 
MBNAs decision to lend to him was unreasonable or irresponsible. 
I am satisfied that MBNA could rely on Mr As income declaration because he has also told 
us the same thing  that his salary was £75,000 a year. And on that salary I see no reason 
to think that Mr A wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay his existing debt as well as 
the new credit as well as maintain his regular essential expenditure. I dont think MBNA 
needed to do further checks on the information available to it. 
I asked for a copy of Mr As credit file from the time of application. I thought that might fill in 
the gaps in the information which MBNA said it had obtained but told us was no longer 
available, for example whether Mr A had missed any repayments or had other negative 
information on his records.  But Mr A didnt provide this, so I cant tell whether MBNA saw 
any negative information when it ran its checks. This means I cant conclude that MBNA 
ought to have acted differently on the information it had available to it. 
On this basis, on balance, I do not think MBNA did anything wrong when it lent to Mr A, and I 
dont think Mr A lost out as a result of anything MBNA did wrong. 
Although I have come to a different decision to our adjudicator, I do want to explain why the 
information provided by Mr A in the form of bank statements does not persuade me that Mr 
As circumstances were different to those shown in the results of the checks available from 
MBNA. 
Our adjudicator thought that more checks should have been done. They thought that given 
the amount of credit offered MBNA should have done more to verify Mr As income and 
expenditure. As not all of the results of the checks that were done at the time were available 
our adjudicator asked for bank statements from the months before the credit application. 
I can see from these that Mr A was overdrawn in his current account and that he was using 
short term loans, which is often a sign of financial difficulty. This is the reason our adjudicator 
gave for initially upholding Mr As complaint.  I think its likely these short-term loans were 
reflected in the £8,800 of loans which appeared on the credit check information provided by 
MBNA. However, it was also clear from his bank statements that he had a savings account 
and so we asked for evidence of this. Mr A provided statements from this account which 
showed that he had savings  usually between £2,000 and £4,000. He transferred money 
between his current and savings account, keeping savings even while he had a negative 
balance in his current account. Mr A says he did this because he had experienced fraud on his current account in the past, but its not clear why using his accounts in this way would 
prevent a repeat occurrence and Mr A hasnt provided an explanation. So, its not clear to 
me that Mr As reliance on short-term loans was as a result of financial difficulties. It was 
also clear that Mr A was transferring funds to his partners account, possibly to cover 
mortgage payments and other household expenses, so we asked about this too but didnt 
get a response. The bank statements provided didnt support the income Mr A told MBNA 
and this service he received, so its possible Mr A earned less than he declared.  MBNA 
could not be held responsible for relying on information Mr A provided to it. 
On the evidence I have available to me I think the checks MBNA made were reasonable and 
proportionate and I dont think it acted irresponsibility or unreasonably. As a result, I dont 
think Mr A lost out as a result of anything MBNA might have done wrong and I dont think 
MBNA needs to pay compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint for the reasons outlined above. This means that I do not 
direct MBNA Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman