DRN-3901295
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt treat her fairly when she requested a refund of 
a payment made with her debit card. 
What happened
Mrs A bought a property in an online auction in August 2021. She paid an amount of £8,120 
to the auction house on 28 August. I understand that the sale was to complete in October 
but Mrs A was unable to complete the purchase. She asked the auction house for a refund 
but was unsuccessful. 
Mrs A asked Monzo for help on or around the 8 November. Card suppliers like Monzo can 
ask a card scheme (companies that run the card networks for example VISA or Mastercard) 
for a refund or chargeback on behalf of their customer if theres a problem with the goods or 
services theyve paid for. These rules for requesting a refund are made by the relevant card 
schemes and refunds arent guaranteed. 
Monzo asked Mrs A for information about the transaction in order to raise a request for her. 
Following many exchanges, Monzo raised a chargeback request for Mrs A with the card 
scheme on 8 January 2022 on the basis that she didnt receive the goods shed paid for. 
This was outside the time allowed by the card scheme for chargeback requests which is 120 
days from the transaction date, in this case the 24 December 2021. Monzo submitted the 
request on the basis that the 120 days started from the planned completion date of the 21 
October 2021.
I understand that the card scheme declined the request on 26 February and that Monzo 
shared this information with Mrs A in March. It asked that she provide any further information 
by the 30 March. Mrs A told Monzo that the property seller, not the auction house, had 
offered her a refund and Monzo asked for proof of this on 28 March but didnt receive a 
response from Mrs A. 
On 30 March Monzo told Mrs A that it understood the reason the sale did not go ahead was 
that she was unable to organise a mortgage on the property before the planned completion 
date and so the seller cancelled the contract. Monzo said that in this case the terms and 
conditions of the auction allowed the auction house to keep the deposit. If Mrs A could 
provide proof that this wasnt what happened in the form of a mortgage offer shown to the 
sellers solicitor within the timeframe then it would consider taking the case forward. 
However, Monzo also said that it wasnt confident it would win the case given how long it 
had been since the transaction had taken place. It told Mrs A that it was likely the card 
scheme would decline the chargeback request on this basis alone. 
Mrs A was unhappy with this outcome and complained. Monzo didnt uphold her complaint 
as it said it had followed its internal procedures and regulatory guidelines. It also said that 
the card scheme assessed the claim and ruled in favour of the auction house.  
Mrs A referred her complaint to us. She said that Monzo didnt open a chargeback request 
fast enough and then told her it would not be considered as it was out of time. She said 
Monzo hadnt acted fairly and didnt do what shed asked. Mrs A would like to have her 
money refunded. She said that it doesnt make sense for her to lose her lifes savings and 
get nothing in return. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs As complaint but didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. They found that Monzo raised a chargeback request when it had the information it 
needed and the request didnt succeed because of the circumstances of the claim not 
because Mrs A was out of time or because Monzo made any errors in the chargeback 
process. 
Mrs A didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for her complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to decide and its come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, this is a complaint about how Monzo dealt with Mrs As chargeback request. I 
have not looked into whether or not the supplier, in this case the auction house Mrs A made 
her winning bid through, treated Mrs A fairly when it charged her an amount of £8,120 in 
August 2021. That question is outside my remit and might be best dealt with either through a 
complaints process with the auction house, its associated ombudsman scheme or through 
the courts. Im considering here whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in the way it 
handled Mrs As request for a refund. 
Having considered everything carefully, I am not upholding Mrs As complaint. Ive 
concluded that Monzo didnt get anything wrong in its handling of Mrs As refund request 
which meant that she missed out on the possibility of having her money returned. I 
appreciate that this is not the outcome Mrs A is hoping for and I am sorry to disappoint her. I 
hope the following clearly explains how Ive reached this conclusion. 
When Mrs A asked Monzo for help, Monzo requested a chargeback from the card scheme. 
Chargeback is a process that allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if 
theres a problem with the goods or services theyve paid for. The chargeback process is 
subject to rules made by the relevant card schemes (companies that run the card networks 
for example VISA or Mastercard) and refunds arent guaranteed. There are specific 
circumstances in which such a request can be raised and strict time limits for doing so. 
Monzo raised a request on the basis that Mrs A didnt receive the goods shed paid for. She 
hadnt gone through with the purchase and so didnt end up as the owner of the property 
shed bid on although shed paid £8,120. The chargeback was considered invalid by the card 
scheme because the T&Cs Mrs A accepted stated that deposits were non-refundable. 
Monzo provided a copy of the response from the card scheme which states its view along 
with supporting evidence of email exchanges between the auction house and the solicitors 
acting for Mrs A and the seller. These confirm that Mrs A was unable to proceed with the 
purchase and the sellers had rescinded the contract. There is no mention of time limits in the 
response. 
The auction house provided a copy of the Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) Mrs A signed up to 
in order to bid and Ive reviewed these. These state that the successful bidder will be 
charged a deposit of 5% of the sale price subject to a minimum of £5,000. The bidder is also 
charged an auction fee of £2,500 plus VAT and pays for the propertys legal pack provided 
by the seller. These fees are non-refundable if the sale fails to complete through no fault of the seller. The completion date set out in the contract was 8 weeks from the contract date of 
the 26 August 2021 and Mrs A hadnt been in a position to complete in time. 
Monzo concluded that the deposit Mrs A paid was non-refundable under the circumstances 
and so the chargeback had been correctly challenged by the card scheme. It told Mrs A that 
unless she had evidence to show that this wasnt what had happened then there wasnt any 
way to successfully challenge what the card scheme had decided. 
Mrs A told Monzo that the property seller had offered her a refund but she didnt provide any 
evidence of this when Monzo asked about it. Given the reason why the card scheme had 
declined the chargeback request and the evidence available to Monzo, I dont think it treated 
Mrs A unfairly or unreasonably by not challenging the card schemes rejection. I appreciate 
that the request was made outside of the 120 day deadline, but even if it had been made in 
time, it doesnt seem to me that the card schemes response would have been any different. 
In summary, I havent found that Monzo treated Mrs A unfairly when she asked for help in 
having her payment to the auction house refunded. I am not upholding Mrs As complaint 
and dont require Monzo to take any further action in this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am not upholding Mrs As complaint against Monzo 
Bank Ltd and do not require it to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman