DRN-3706359
The complaint
Miss W says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has unfairly declined her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In January 2018, Miss W paid £4,005 to a dental practice Ill call A. She told us she 
purchased clear aligner treatment and a dental implant. She used her Barclays 
credit card account to make the payment.
Miss W started her treatment. However, she says that before it was completed, A 
went into administration. Miss W says the type of aligner treatment she purchased 
allowed her to repeat or continue the treatment until her teeth were straight. She says 
her teeth arent fully straight  and theyve started moving since A went into 
administration and her treatment stopped. And although A implanted a metal post, it 
didnt attach the artificial tooth (the crown).
When A went into administration, Miss W contacted Barclays.
Barclays wrote to Miss W on 12 March 2021 to say it couldnt submit a chargeback 
claim or consider a claim under section 75 of the CCA as Miss W was unable to 
provide an invoice or dental plan which showed exactly what shed paid for and what 
shed received.
At this point, Miss W referred her complaint to our service.
She explained to our investigator  as shed explained to Barclays  that she was 
unable to provide an invoice or dental plan because A had ceased trading.
Our investigator explained to Miss W that, in the absence of a contract, invoice or 
any other paperwork which shows what she paid for, she couldnt safely say there 
had been a breach of contract.
Miss W was subsequently able to obtain her records from the company that makes 
the aligners  which Ill call B.
However, our investigator didnt think this was enough to show that she hadnt 
finished her aligner treatment, or that the dental implant was part of the contract. For 
the first time, Miss W said the contract also included teeth whitening  and repeated 
something shed said earlier about A offering to fix some of her fillings for free. Our 
investigator explained that neither was mentioned in any of the paperwork that had 
been provided.
Miss W has sent us a copy of a letter from a dentist  who Ill call D1  which 
discusses the appropriateness and likely success of further treatment. This letter is 
dated 8 July 2021. Miss W has also sent us a quote from another dentist  who Ill 
call D2  which shows that the cost of further treatment and a crown implant is 
£3,660. This quote is dated 3 November 2021.
Our investigator spoke to someone from D2s office, who:
explained that [B] full  which is the treatment type Miss W purchased 
according to the records provided by B  allows the patient to continue 
treatment, or return for treatment, until the treatment expiration date;
thinks A would have had to continue treating Miss W if it hadnt gone into 
administration, as Bs records shows a treatment expiration date of 
19 March 2023;
explained that Miss W would, however, have had to pay lab fees, etc herself;
thinks A would have entered into an agreement with B, and Miss W would 
need a referral from A, otherwise any other dentist will consider it a new 
treatment plan and Miss W would incur additional costs; and,
recommended Miss W get the terms and conditions of [B] full from B.
Miss W asked B to provide a copy of the relevant terms and conditions. 
Unfortunately, it didnt.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 July 2022, which included the following provisional 
findings:
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, that the finance provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Here, theres no dispute about the applicability of section 75  Im satisfied that Barclays is 
legally answerable for any breach of contract by A. The question is: was there a breach of 
contract by A?
The starting point for such an enquiry is usually the point of sale paperwork. Unless I can 
say what someone paid for, I cant compare it to what they received, and therefore 
determine whether theres been a breach of contract. Here, unfortunately but 
understandably, Miss W hasnt been able to provide any point of sale documents. And she 
hasnt been able to provide me with anything that shows she purchased a dental implant, 
teeth whitening or any fillings from A. Im therefore unable to say that A was paid to provide 
these services and hasnt  or that Barclays is liable as a result.
Miss W has, however, been able to provide some information about her aligner treatment  
and Ive carefully considered the evidence shes provided.
First, Miss Ws records from B show she purchased [B] full on 23 February 2018, and her 
treatment expiration date (TED) is 19 March 2023. Its not clear if this is the original 
expiration date or an adjusted date  the two-page summary of Miss Ws treatment that B 
has provided appears to be a screenshot of its system, and Adjust TED is one of a number 
of actions listed.
In any event, Miss W told us that [B] full meant she could continue or repeat her treatment
until her teeth were straight  and our investigator was told something similar by someone 
from D2s office.
On balance, and in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I think this broadly reflects 
the treatment plan Miss W purchased from A. However, without the applicable terms and 
conditions, I dont know what restrictions applied, if any, and what was included. For 
example, in her letter dated 8 July 2021, D1 wrote:
[Miss W] was upset about having to pay for her scans, photos and DPT as she 
thought [B] pays for this. I advised [Miss W] that [B] will only pay for the aligner trays 
all other work is chargeable and whoever she sees for [B brand aligner treatment] will 
charge her for surgery time, this will be expensive as her work is complicated.
As [Miss W] feels she has not been informed of the charge I have refunded her 
moneyThe person at D2s office also said that Miss W would still have to pay lab fees, etc. So it 
seems the plan only covers some of the costs involved, not all.
The quote Miss W provided from D2 includes teeth whitening (£395) and a crown implant 
(£950)  which obviously arent part of the aligner treatment plan. And I think its unlikely a 
hygiene treatment (£115) was included either. This reduces the quote for orthodontic 
treatment to £2,200, which includes: orthodontic retention (£200), initial [B] scan (£500), 
initial [B] fit (£1,000), fixed upper appliance (£250), and fixed lower appliance (£250). Its 
not clear to me which of these, if any or part thereof, would be covered by the plan Miss W 
purchased.
There are two further complications.
First, as Miss W now has her records from B, its not clear to me that another dentist would 
necessarily charge her for those costs which are covered by the plan. While the person at 
D2 said they probably would, in the absence of a referral from A, D1s letter indicates that 
the cost will be met by B. (Miss W obtained her records from B after her consultations with 
D1 and D2.)
Second, D1s letter included the following observations:
I warned [Miss W] that her treatment is difficult. She has had four refinements of [B 
brand aligner treatment]I advised [Miss W], I could not make space with
[B brand aligner treatment] for the crown replacementThe only way would be with 
fixed appliances.
We then discussed the upper arch I informed [Miss W] that this could be done with [B 
brand aligner treatment], but it will take a long time to treat, to close the space and 
avoid a centreline shift.
After discussion [Miss W] has declined fixed appliance treatment and is going to seek 
a second opinion regarding [B brand aligner treatment].
I appreciate that Miss W subsequently got a second opinion from D2  but the quote Ive 
seen from D2 simply says, As a result of your examination we advise the following 
treatment. It doesnt comment on the appropriateness or likely success of such treatment.
And given D1s comments, I think theres some doubt about both.
I note, too, that D1s patient notes for Miss W say shed nearly finished [B brand aligner]
treatment with another dentist and the company went bust.
In summary, based on the evidence Ive seen so far:
I think Miss Ws aligner treatment was incomplete when A went into administration  
although it was nearly finished (in the words of D1).
On balance, I think the plan she purchased from A allowed her to repeat or continue 
her treatment until her treatment expiration date  which, in this case, is 
19 March 2023.
As failure to complete Miss Ws treatment was a breach of contract, for which 
Barclays is legally answerable.
However:I dont think the plan Miss W purchased from A covered all costs  and on the 
evidence Ive seen so far, I cant say which costs were covered;
I dont know if B will meet those costs in any event; and,
I cant say if further clear aligner treatment is clinically possible and/or appropriate.
For these reasons, I dont think it would be fair to tell Barclays to refund the full amount 
Miss W paid A  especially as her treatment was nearly finished. Nor do I think it would be 
fair to tell it to pay Miss W the full cost of the orthodontic treatment for which D2 has quoted
 as Ive explained, I simply dont know which elements should have been performed by A 
as part of the contract, or which costs will be, or would have been, covered by B. On the 
other hand, I think it would be unfair not to make an award at all  after all, theres been a 
breach of contract and I think, on balance, Miss W has lost out as result, even if its not been 
possible for me to say to what extent.
With such limited information, I must, necessarily, paint with a broad brush. In the 
circumstances, I think a 20 percent reduction in the contract price is fair, practical and 
proportionate.
If Miss W or Barclays think this approach is unfair, they can explain why in reply to this 
provisional decision and tell me what they think I should do instead.
Finally, when Barclays wrote to Miss W on 12 March 2021, it explained why it couldnt 
submit a chargeback claim or consider a claim under section 75 of the CCA. Above, Ive 
considered a claim under section 75 of the CCA. For completeness, Ill briefly explain why I 
dont think it was unfair for Barclays not to attempt a chargeback claim.
A chargeback is a way for a credit card provider to reclaim money from the retailers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services shes paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme and strict criteria apply.
The card provider isnt required to raise a chargeback claim just because the consumer asks 
it to  although I think its good practice for one to be attempted when theres a reasonable 
prospect of success.
As Miss W was unable to provide any paperwork which showed what shed paid for when 
she first contacted Barclays, I dont think a chargeback claim would have been successful 
and I dont think it was unfair for Barclays not to attempt one in the circumstances.
In reply to my provisional decision, Miss W asked if Id seen the quote from D2. She says 
she doesnt think £801 is fair as shell have to pay D2 an additional £2,859 to continue her 
treatment, which is far too much as shes already paid £4,005.
And she says that as its been so long since A went into administration and her treatment 
stopped, her teeth have moved and her back teeth now touch the metal post. Miss W says 
this is why its going to be very hard to correct the damage done. She says this wouldnt 
have happened if shed got her money back as soon as she made her claim.
Barclays also disagrees with my provisional decision. 
It said it declined Miss Ws claim under section 75 of the CCA because she didnt provide 
anything to show what she paid for or what shed received. As Miss W had since provided 
our service with some evidence, it said it thought it was only fair for it to have the chance to 
review the evidence and reconsider her claim. I agreed and sent Barclays all the evidence Miss W had provided. 
After an unexplained delay, Barclays wrote to me to say:
it had reviewed the evidence provided by Miss W  and it couldnt understand some 
of it;
the documents show Miss W received treatment and was given advice and guidance 
during that treatment;
it had searched online to find evidence that A has gone into administration but says it 
cant find anything  and has therefore asked for evidence; and,
it says it requires an independent assessment that shows what Miss W was due to 
receive, what she received and what it would cost to rectify any errors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address Miss Ws comments first.
First, Im sorry if I caused any confusion by referring to the dentist who supplied the quote 
Miss W mentions as D2 in my provisional decision. Unfortunately, I cant refer to them by 
name. However, I hope Miss W can now see that I carefully considered this quote. And in 
my provisional decision, I explained why I didnt think it would be fair to tell Barclays to pay 
the amount quoted in full. My reasons remain the same.
Second, while I appreciate Miss Ws frustration and understand the point she makes, I think 
it was fair for Barclays to decline her claim based on the evidence she provided at the time. 
And it looks like it was only after our investigator rejected her complaint that Miss W asked 
for and got the limited information we have from B, which is a key piece of evidence in this 
case. We received this in January 2022. In the circumstances, I dont think Barclays is 
responsible for the delay or that its liable for any extra Miss W will have to pay as a result of 
the time thats past since her treatment stopped.
Im surprised and disappointed by Barclays review of the evidence Miss W has provided. As 
I made clear in my provisional decision  which Barclays had the benefit of reading 
alongside the evidence  I think its possible to work out elements of the contract. Miss W 
has also provided evidence from two dentists. With the available evidence, its unclear to me 
what more Barclays could hope to get from an independent assessment. In my provisional 
decision, I explained what I thought the evidence showed, why I thought there was a breach 
of contract and what I thought was a fair remedy in the circumstances. Barclays hasnt 
commented on any of this. My decision and the reasons for it therefore remain the same. 
Finally, Barclays says it cant find any evidence online that A has gone into administration. 
Our service has received several complaints because A has ceased trading  so Im 
satisfied it has. In any event, if Barclays types As trading name into a well-known search 
engine, followed by the word liquidation, the first result is a news item on the British Dental 
Association (BDA) website that makes this clear.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Miss W £801.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman