DRN-1539586
The complaint
 Mr P complains about data held by Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) .
What happened
In May 2019 Mr P closed a credit card account he held with M&S. After closing the account, 
Mr P asked M&S to delete all personal information it held on him.
Mr P says he has concerns over M&Ss security policy and he doesnt agree that it should 
hold information like VPN addresses and passwords on file, when he no longer banks with 
them. So he raised a complaint. 
M&S looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said its data retention policy allows the 
bank to keep details of its customers and their data on file for at least seven years after their 
banking relationship has ended. It went on to say that this is a regulatory requirement and 
the information could potentially be needed in the future. It went on to say that certain 
information like VPN addresses are encrypted and they have a robust security policy in 
place to protect the rest of Mr Ps data. 
Mr P didnt agree with M&S. He said their policy allows them to keep core banking 
information  and information such as passwords doesnt fit this criteria. So he brought a 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He found the 
information supplied to Mr P when he opened the account was clear in how the bank would 
use and retain Mr Ps data. He went on to say that there could be other organisations more 
suited to looking into M&Ss data retention policy.
Mr P remained unhappy, so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully looked into everything Mr P has said and Ive taken all of his concerns on 
board, but I find myself coming to the same outcome as the investigator for much the same 
reasons. 
Our organisation offers an informal dispute resolution service. We aim to resolve a 
customers complaint about a financial business by looking at what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. And if the financial business has acted incorrectly, we can ask it to 
compensate the customer for any financial and other losses that the customer has incurred. 
But we have no disciplinary or regulatory role over the business and we arent able to make 
it change the way that it runs its business.
In the circumstances of this complaint, Mr P is unhappy with the information that M&S has 
retained on its internal systems. I have reviewed the information Mr P was provided when he 
opened his account and I find its clear in the way the bank will hold data and for how long. 
Im also happy with the explanation given regarding why it would need to hold data after a 
banking relationship has ended.
I understand Mr P doesnt think core banking details include that of his password and VPN 
address. But I dont find our service is in a position to tell M&S what constitutes core data, 
that is for the bank to decide.  If our service were to determine what information we think 
M&S should hold, this would potentially impact all its past, current and future customers, and 
thats simply not what our service was set up to do. 
Mr P is correct in that there are certain circumstances where an individual can ask for 
information that a business holds to be deleted. In this situation, it would be for the business 
to decide if it thinks its necessary or keeping within its data retention policy to delete that 
information. 
M&S have given Mr P reassurances that his data will be protected, and in these 
circumstances, I dont find it can do any more. Our service is not able to compensate for 
something that hasnt happened yet or could happen in the future, such as fraud. So there is 
no financial loss for me to asses and make a decision on here. 
M&S is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and its for them to 
decide if it is fulfilling its duties. Our service can look into individual complaints and in this 
case, whats happened in Mr Ps individual circumstances. Taking Mr Ps concerns about 
security into consideration, there isnt anything to suggest his data has been breached. And 
if Mr P has general concerns about the way M&S processes data and handles security, I 
think his concerns are best placed for the FCA or Information Commissioners Office.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman