DRN-3518728
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Is complaint is that Barclays Bank UK Plc has treated them unfairly by refusing 
to extend the term of their mortgage, which expired in 2018.
On their complaint form sent to us in June 2021, Mr and Mrs I state that to settle the 
complaint they would like the mortgage term extended by a further two years from that date, 
so to June 2023.
What happened
In 2007, on the advice of their own independent financial adviser, Mr and Mrs I took out an 
interest-only mortgage through the residential lending division of Barclays, Woolwich. They 
borrowed £400,000 on an interest-only basis over a term of ten years, secured on a property 
then valued at £830,000 but now (according to online valuations) worth at least £1.5 million.
The mortgage reached the end of its term in January 2018. However, Mr and Mrs I have not 
yet repaid the balance. 
In May 2018 Mr and Mrs Is financial planner (FP) explained to Barclays that Mr I holds a 
substantial investment portfolio, but the reason the portfolio cannot be encashed at this 
stage is that when our client sold some of the property assets that were within his business, 
the proceeds were subject to a Trust arrangement and the funds are managed by [another 
business]. We are currently in discussion with HMRC in connection with taxation of the fund 
 we envisage that matters will be resolved by the end of 2020 and hopefully considerably 
earlier
Barclays considered this and put in place a repayment plan. It was agreed that, out of their 
disposably monthly income of £685, Mr and Mrs I would make a payment of £585 towards 
the mortgage until November 2020, at which point the outstanding balance would be repaid 
in full.
Instead, however, in December 2020 Mr and Mrs Is FP requested a further two-year 
extension for repayment of the mortgage. The FP explained that the tax position on Mr Is 
portfolio still hadnt been decided. The FP said that selling the property  which he said was 
worth £1.3 million is not an option. He explained that Mr I was (at that time) 76 years old 
and had health issues, as a result, of which Mr I had found a letter sent by Barclays on 
6 December 2020 reminding him and Mrs I that the mortgage needed to be repaid very 
stressful. The FP considered Mr I to be vulnerable and said Barclays was required to take 
this into consideration.
In January 2021 the FP explained to Barclays that the issue with HMRC was that Mr I had 
assets in a self-administered pension scheme that were held overseas, and that his lawyers 
had advised him not to cash in any assets due to the tax implications. The FP also told 
Barclays that, although there was substantial equity in the property, an equity release 
mortgage wasnt acceptable, because Mrs I was only 57 and so it wasnt worth doing. A 
proposal was made by the FP to increase the monthly payment to just over £1,000 per 
month and, once the tax issues with the portfolio had been resolved, Mr and Mrs I would 
then be in a position to repay the mortgage. 
Barclays wasnt able to agree to this, but in a final response letter dated 4 March 2021, 
allowed a further extension to 4 June 2021 and agreed to accept payments of £1,063 per 
month. The increased payments began in February 2021.
Mr and Mrs I complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service in May 2021. They thought 
Barclays had treated them unfairly and said the bank was harassing them for repayment. 
They wanted a two-year term extension. 
In a letter dated 22 February 2022 Mr I explained that it was his intention to repay the 
mortgage either by selling the property or else from his investment portfolio. However, the 
property market had been difficult during the pandemic and selling the property at a realistic 
price would take time. Mr I also said that he had been assured by HMRC that his case 
concerning taxation of his investment portfolio was being reviewed, and that he should have 
a conclusion in the next 6-9 months (so by September 2022).
In its response to the complaint, Barclays said it had referred the matter to its internal panel 
but the result was that only a three-month extension could be offered. The bank 
acknowledged, however, that there had been a delay of 28 days in the matter being referred 
to its panel. Barclays offered compensation of £100 for this.
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think Barclays had acted 
unreasonably. He noted Barclays had already extended the repayment dated to November 
2020. He thought the bank had given fair consideration to further requests, but the situation 
with HMRC was still unresolved. As a result, the investigator didnt think it was fair to expect 
Barclays to grant a further two-year extension to the term. He thought the £100 offered by 
the bank was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, but he didnt think Barclays was 
required to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs I didnt agree with the investigators findings. In his response dated 19 May 2022 
Mr I made some further points, and those that are relevant to the complaint I summarise 
below:
he has always been transparent with Barclays and has never missed a payment;
the HMRC timescale is now another 6-12 months (November 2022-May 2023);
they lost a minimum of two years during the pandemic when the property market was 
depressed, but he intends to explore selling the property over the next few months;
they are making overpayments and the capital is reducing;
he is considering a lifetime mortgage, but needs time to think about this;
his circumstances are quite different from people who are repossessed because they get 
into arrears and cant pay their mortgages;
he honestly doesnt believe a court would grant possession when all he has done is keep 
Barclays advised of his financial circumstances;
he is not in any financial difficulty, but his tax issues are outside his control;
Barclays is continuing to apply pressure, which is very stressful, particularly as the bank 
is aware of his and Mrs Is physical and mental health issues;
all he is asking for is for Barclays to be sympathetic while the matter is being resolved as 
the bank will ultimately be repaid once he is in a position to do this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage term came to an end in January 2018, and Barclays extended the date for 
repayment for almost three years, to November 2020. We are now more than 18 months on 
from then, and the debt remains outstanding. Mr I now says that it is likely to be a further 
6-12 months before HMRC is able to give him a decision on his tax position. As a result, Mr I 
thinks it is fair for Barclays to extend the repayment date.
Barclays, on the other hand, says it has exercised considerable patience and that the time  
to repay the mortgage is long overdue. Mr and Mrs I have the means to repay the mortgage, 
and various options available to enable them to do this, but are choosing not to do so.
Its important to explain that, where Barclays has given fair consideration to a request to 
delay repayment of the mortgage, taking into account all relevant factors, I dont have any 
discretion to interfere with that decision, because its a legitimate exercise by Barclays of its 
commercial judgement. But Barclays has to treat customers fairly, and take account of their 
personal and financial circumstances. 
Ive weighed up what both parties have said, and Ive thought about what Barclays is 
expected to do to help customers who arent able to make their repayments. However, Mr I 
has made it clear that he and Mrs I are not in any financial difficulty; in fact, he says their 
position is quite the opposite and that they have the means to repay the mortgage, but that it 
doesnt suit them to do so at the present time due to his potential tax liability.
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs I have known since they took the mortgage out in 2007 that 
theyd need to pay it back in 2018. I appreciate that their preferred repayment strategy  the 
release of funds from Mr Is £1.3 million investment portfolio  might have tax implications for 
Mr I. I also accept that the delay by HMRC in advising Mr I about this is beyond his control. I 
have also taken into consideration that Mr I has had some serious health issues over the 
years, and that the stress of the situation has affected Mrs Is mental health.
However, the fact remains that Mr and Mrs I are in breach of contract by not repaying the 
mortgage and Barclays is, I find, entitled to set a deadline for repayment given that the term 
expired more than four years ago. I can see no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable 
to expect Barclays to wait another 12 months for HMRC to make a decision on the tax 
implications for Mr I of drawing funds from his investment portfolio  with no guarantee that 
this will actually happen within a year, or whether in 12 months time HMRC will say that this 
might happen at some unspecified date in the future. Ive not seen any evidence from HMRC 
about this; all I have is what Mr I and the FP have told us and Barclays.
Mr and Mrs I have known for some time that if their original repayment strategy isnt likely to 
be available, then an alternative strategy should be put in place. In this case, there are 
options available to Mr and Mrs I - a sale of the property or an equity release mortgage. 
I fully understand that these options arent ones that Mr and Mrs I are likely to find 
particularly palatable, and I accept that selling a property during the pandemic would not 
have been ideal. But Ive not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs I have taken any proactive 
steps to put an alternative repayment strategy in place. I think that once it became apparent 
by November 2020 that the mortgage couldnt be repaid at that time, it would have been 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs I to look at other ways of paying off the mortgage.Mr I has told us that he and Mrs I are now thinking about a lifetime mortgage or selling the 
property. If Mr and Mrs I decide not to go ahead with a lifetime mortgage, given Mr Is age 
and his and Mrs Is health issues, the longer Mr and Mrs I delay a sale of the property, the 
greater the potential for a house move to be difficult and unduly stressful. 
I have to emphasise that if the mortgage debt remains outstanding and Barclays was to take 
the matter to court (and this would be a last resort) where a mortgage contract has expired 
the court has no discretion to suspend possession  even if the borrowers offer to make 
monthly payments. So although I appreciate that Mr and Mrs I have continued to make 
payments, this in itself would not prevent Barclays from seeking possession, given that there 
is a breach of contract. I know Mr I believes otherwise, and so he and Mrs I might find it 
helpful to take some legal advice about what the court can and cant do to help borrowers 
where the mortgage term has expired. I would not want Mr and Mrs I to think that the court 
would grant them a long-term, open-ended period of time to remain in the property making 
monthly payments, when it has no power to do so.
I think that the three-month extension which Barclays proposed in March 2021 for repayment 
of the mortgage was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I am conscious that this 
three-month extension expired a year ago and the mortgage still hasnt been repaid.
Going forward, Mr and Mrs I will need to keep Barclays updated with the progress of any 
sale, re-mortgage or release of funds to repay the mortgage. I would expect Barclays to 
allow Mr and Mrs I a reasonable period to repay the mortgage. But I think that if after three 
months from the date of this decision the mortgage hasnt been repaid, or Barclays hasnt 
been provided with evidence of imminent repayment (by which I mean confirmation from 
solicitors of an impending exchange of contracts, or an offer of a new mortgage which is 
about to complete), Barclays would be entitled to consider whether to proceed with legal 
action.
Lenders generally will agree put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but 
they dont have to and we cant force them to; if the Financial Ombudsman Service had that 
power it would undermine our impartiality between the parties to a complaint. It would also 
create the potential risk of consumers using our service to bring complaints with the intention 
of obstructing businesses that were trying to take legitimate action to recover money 
legitimately owed to them. 
I am explaining this because I would not want Mr and Mrs I to be under any 
misunderstanding that we would tell Barclays to suspend any legal action in the event of a 
new complaint being raised. Our powers do not allow us to interfere in any legitimate court 
proceedings Barclays might decide to take for breach of contract if the mortgage isnt repaid. 
I think it would be helpful if Mr and Mrs I spoke to their FP again to discuss their options, or 
to a specialist equity release mortgage adviser. They can find details of suitable advisers on 
the Equity Release Councils website at https://www.equityreleasecouncil.com.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in relation to the request 
for a term extension. Im also satisfied that the £100 Barclays offered for delay in submitting 
the request for a new two-year extension to its panel in January 2021 is fair and 
proportionate to the impact of the delay. Im not ordering the bank to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman