DRN-4435380
The complaint
Miss B complains about the charges applied by Somerset Bridge Insurance Services when 
she cancelled her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss B bought a car insurance policy through an aggregator site. The broker for the policy 
was Somerset Bridge with the insurer being a separate company. 
Just over two weeks later, Miss B decided to cancel the policy. She called Somerset Bridge 
to check it had received the cancellation. Somerset Bridge hadnt received it and so offered 
to put the request in over the phone. During the call Miss B asked if shed receive a refund 
as shed paid a deposit of around £250. The advisor let Miss B know there would be a £75 
cancellation fee and that she would receive a refund of around £57. Miss B went ahead with 
the cancellation.
Miss B later received the cancellation confirmation which explained she owed Somerset 
Bridge just under £350. Miss B didnt think this was fair and complained. She said during the 
call shed been told she would get a refund and so didnt understand why she was now being 
told she owed Somerset Bridge money. 
Somerset Bridge reviewed the complaint and partially upheld it. It said the fees and charges 
applied were in line with the terms of business, which Miss B had agreed too. The 
breakdown of charges are: insurance premium of £129.78, cancellation fee of £75, direct 
debit set up fee of £50 and broker fee of £347.93. However, due to the incorrect information 
given in the call Somerset Bridge agreed to waive the cancellation fee and pay £25 
compensation. It therefore reduced the amount Miss B owed by £100. 
Miss B didnt agree with Somerset Bridges response and referred her complaint here. She 
said shed cancelled the insurance as she couldnt afford it and was never informed of the 
broker fee. Miss B explained if shed been told about it before then she would never have 
bought the policy. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that 
Somerset Bridge hadnt sufficiently justified charging the broker/arrangement fee and 
recommended it be removed. This meant that when Miss B cancelled her policy, she should 
only be charged the cancellation fee of £75. She also recommended that Miss B is paid 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the charges Somerset Bridge has applied and reviewed whether theyre in line 
with the terms of business. In doing so Im not persuaded its acted fairly and reasonably in 
charging a broker fee of £347.93. I say this because the terms of business say under the 
heading Annual policy arrangement fee:
The fee payable will be dependent on the insurer who the business is 
being placed with. The fee is calculated as a percentage of insurer 
calculated premium and the result of individual risk calculations based on 
data collected at the time of quoting and throughout the life of your policy if 
at renewal. This could result in variations of the overall price when 
comparing new quotes and renewals. The monetary amount of any such 
fee will be disclosed to you prior to you purchasing/renewing the policy.
Somerset Bridge has provided a document which it says Miss B would have seen before 
taking out the policy. Within this it says: Arrangement fee £347.93. Ive reviewed this and 
while I agree this does show the arrangement fee, Im not satisfied the document provided 
shows this was sufficiently brought to Miss Bs attention before she bought the policy, or that 
it would be charged in full if she cancelled it. I say this because its not clear how the 
document was presented to Miss B or whether she had to agree to it before proceeding 
through the sales journey. Even if it was presented in a way which was clear, Im still not 
persuaded its fair and reasonable for Somerset Bridge to charge it in this particular case. 
I say this because our investigator asked Somerset Bridge to justify the arrangement fee. 
This is because its fair and reasonable for Somerset Bridge to charge proportionately for the 
work it does. Somerset Bridge explained Miss B had agreed to the fee and knew it would be 
charged, even if she cancelled the policy. It also said its unable to amend the arrangement 
fee if Miss Bs policy required more work, then it initially charged for. Ive considered 
Somerset Bridges response, but it hasnt persuaded me its charged proportionately for the 
arrangement fee. This is because its not explained what work was needed for Miss Bs 
policy to justify an arrangement fee of almost £350. Im therefore not satisfied its fair and 
reasonable for Somerset Bridge to charge it. 
To put things right Somerset Bridge needs to refund the £347.93 arrangement fee to Miss B. 
It should also stop any debt recovery action it may have started and arrange for any adverse 
markers related to this debt to be removed from any internal or external databases. In regard 
to cancellation fee and direct debit set up fee, these are in line with fees Ive seen on other 
policies and, as Miss B hasnt raised a concern about these, Im not going to interfere with 
Somerset Bridge charging them. The amount charged by the insurer for the time on risk isnt 
something I can comment on in this decision as its charged by the insurer, not Somerset 
Bridge.  
Ive also considered the impact on Miss B by charging this fee and threatening debt recovery 
action. Miss B has explained she cancelled the policy due to not being able to afford it. She 
was then pursued for a debt she shouldnt have been chased for. Im satisfied the £100 for 
distress and inconvenience recommended by our investigator is fair and reasonable. 
Therefore, Somerset Bridge also needs to pay Miss B £100 for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience its caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Somerset Bridge Insurance Services to refund the £347.93 arrangement fee to Miss B and 
pay her £100 for distress and inconvenience. Somerset Bridge Insurance Services also 
needs to arrange to have any adverse markers removed from any internal and external 
databases which relate to Miss B not paying the arrangement fee. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman