DRN-4222175
The complaint
Mrs A complains about advice given by Phoenix Life Limited when taking out an Over 50s 
life insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs A took out an Over 50s life insurance policy in 2011.
In 2023 Mrs A complained saying the policy had been mis-sold as the way the product 
worked wasnt made clear in several ways. Phoenix looked into the sale but didnt uphold the 
complaint saying they were transparent about the features and risks of the product. 
Remaining unhappy Mrs A brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They explained that the policy was taken out on a 
non-advised basis so it was up to Mrs A to decide whether to take out the policy. They 
thought the documents from the time accurately explained the policy and that Phoenix had 
acted in line with the terms and conditions. 
Mrs A disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want to assure her that Ive read and considered all that 
has been provided.
The sale took place over some 10 years ago so understandably there isnt a full record of 
what happened. Where theres a lack of information Ive come to a decision based on the 
balance of probabilities about what I think is most likely to have happened 
When complaining Mrs A said:
- The television adverts were misleading
- She thought the policy covered funeral costs 
- The premiums could exceed the sum assured
- The necessary information to make a decision about the policy wasnt transparent. 
Mrs A contacted Phoenix after seeing an advertisement for an Over 50s plan. I havent seen 
these adverts and due to the passage of time Phoenix dont appear to have a copy. Even if 
these did exist it wouldnt be the role of this service to necessarily comment on television 
adverts. So Ive concentrated on what happened when Mrs A made contact with Phoenix.
Part of the complaint is that Mrs A thought the policy would cover her funeral costs  but 
thats not how this product works. And Ive seen no evidence that Phoenix said this was the 
case. The policy pays a guaranteed amount, subject to the terms and conditions, on the 
death of the policy holder.
Mrs A has said the premiums paid into the policy could exceed the sum assured  and this is 
correct as that is possible. The welcome letter sent to Mrs A says Depending on how long 
you live, the total premiums paid may be greater than the cash sum payable on death. Whilst 
I dont have a copy of the telephone call from when the policy was taken out, the scripted 
nature of these non-advised sales calls means I think it most likely that the possible risk was 
disclosed at that point. And I think its also made clear in the documentation sent to Mrs A.
Having reviewed all the available documentation, and everything I know about what 
happened, I think the information was made clear for Mrs A to make an informed decision 
about taking out the policy. This was followed up in writing where all the features, benefits 
and risks of the product are explained in a welcome letter and keyfacts document. 
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied Phoenix Life treated Mrs A fairly and 
reasonably so I wont be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman