DRN-3676420
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with how A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP (ASG) carried out its 
obligations to maintain a boiler it supplied to them under a conditional sale agreement.
What happened
In 2016, Mr and Mrs L entered into a regulated conditional sale agreement with ASG for the 
supply and installation of a domestic boiler. The agreement was to be paid back over 10 
years. The boiler came with a 10-year warranty on the proviso that ASG carried out an 
annual service on it. 
Mr and Mrs L have told us that since the boiler was fitted, theyve had numerous issues. 
These include, but arent limited to:
 
The agreement was mis-sold to them as they were told there would be nothing to pay 
if the boiler broke down. 
They were told the boiler service would be free. 
The magnetic filter should be cleaned as part of the annual service. 
The expansion vessel should have been checked during the annual service. 
There were issues with the system being flushed. 
ASG put a charge on their property which wasnt explained to them. 
When Mr and Mrs L complained to ASG, it told them it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. So, Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to our service where it was looked at by 
one of our investigators. Briefly, she thought the complaint should be upheld in part. Our 
investigator thought that while ASGs salesperson didnt fully explain what the agreement 
involved, it did set out the cost of the annual service. She also thought any issues with the 
expansion vessel would be covered by the boilers 10-year manufacturers warranty. 
Our investigator also thought ASG had carried out a power flush when the boiler was 
installed and, while the age of Mr and Mrs Ls existing pipework meant it may be prone to 
having issues with debris, this wasnt ASGs responsibility. But she did think ASG needed to: 
clean the magnetic filter during the annual service; remove the entry over Mr and Mrs Ls 
property at HM Land Registry; and, pay them £150 for the trouble and upset theyve been 
caused.
Mr and Mrs L maintained the agreement was mis-sold. They said ASGs salesperson told 
them the maintenance would be free. 
ASG didnt accept our investigators view. Briefly, it said the agreement sets out that while 
the boiler has a 10-year warranty, all the other items  including the magnetic filter  were 
only covered for 12 months. ASG also maintained that it fully explained the details of the HM 
Land Registry restriction to Mr and Mrs L. 
As the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 22 August 2022. In it I said: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why. First, 
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here: did ASG clearly explain the agreement to Mr and 
Mrs L, and has it carried out its obligations under it? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
Ive looked at the conditional sale agreement. This is dated 13 January 2016. Im satisfied 
this agreement sets out the terms and conditions relating to the boiler ASG supplied. Its 
signed by both Mr and Mrs L. Theres nothing in the available evidence that makes me think 
their signatures arent genuine. Ive not got an example of Mrs Ls signature, other than that 
contained in ASGs paperwork. 
But I do have a letter Mr L signed and sent to ASG when he complained. Ive compared this 
to his signature on the agreement. While Im not an expert, theres nothing in this 
comparison to make me think Mr L didnt sign the agreement. Theres also nothing in the 
available evidence to make me think Mrs L didnt sign the agreement. 
Mr and Mrs L say they were told the annual service would be free. But this testimony isnt 
backed up by the other evidence Ive seen. In their complaint letter to ASG, Mr and Mrs L 
say there was no mention they would have to pay for the service until Mr L rang to book it. 
This would have been after he received a reminder letter from ASG at the end of November 
2016. Mr and Mrs L said when they queried this, they were sent a copy of the signed 
agreement  and when they received this, they didnt remember having signed it. 
Ive looked at ASGs records. These show Mr and Mrs L asked for a copy of the agreement 
on 19 October 2016  well over a month before any reminders about the annual service 
were sent, and several days after theyd spoken to ASG about an issue with their heating. 
Theres nothing that shows they questioned any details about the agreement or its validity at 
that time. 
These records also show Mr and Mrs L spoke to ASG just before Christmas 2016 to book 
the service for early the following year. The notes at the time say they will call to pay first 
thing on the morning of the service. Theres no mention at all of them querying the service 
fee. 
Taking all this into account Im not satisfied the agreement was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs L. It 
makes it clear there is an annual £75 charge for the service. Also, the boiler comes with a 
10-year guarantee which should cover any breakdowns. 
Moving on to the magnetic filter, ASGs position is that cleaning this isnt its responsibility 
and isnt included in the annual service. I dont agree. I accept the agreement states the 
boiler has a 10-year warranty and the other components have a 12-month guarantee. But condition six of the agreement states ASG will arrange an annual service of the Goods (my 
emphasis). The agreement defines the goods as those set out in the schedule to the 
agreement. The list of the goods in the schedule includes the magnetic filter. 
As the agreement sets out that ASG will service the goods, and the goods include the 
magnetic filter, it follows Im satisfied cleaning this filter should form part of each annual 
service going forward. Im satisfied ASGs position over this has caused distress and 
inconvenience to Mr and Mrs L that could have been avoided. I think it should pay them 
£150 compensation for this. 
Turning to the expansion vessel, its not clear to me whether or not this is sited within the 
boiler housing. If it is, I would expect this to be covered by the annual service and 10-year 
boiler warranty. Also, my understanding is that this doesnt need to be re-pressurised during 
the annual service. It only needs recharging if theres a problem and its lost pressure. So, I 
dont think ASG have acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to this. 
Mr and Mrs L have said there have been issues with their central heating system being 
flushed as their pipes are old and narrow. In the complaint form they submitted to us, they 
told us that two independent gas engineers said the system couldnt have been flushed at 
the beginning. Mrs L also told our investigator that ASG should have done a full flush when 
the boiler was installed, and they dont believe this was done. I dont accept this wasnt 
carried out. 
Ive seen the flushing certificate that ASGs engineer completed. This shows a power flush 
was carried out when the boiler was fitted. This certificate is signed by the engineer and 
Mr L. So, Im satisfied this was carried out. I do appreciate Mr and Mrs Ls point about their 
pipes being old and narrow. But Im not satisfied thats the fault or responsibility of ASG. If 
they think their pipework may potentially cause them problems in the future, its open to them 
to rectify this. 
Lastly, Ill deal with the entry at HM Land Registry. Mr and Mrs L have referred to this as a 
charge and said they cant re-mortgage their house because of it. I would make it clear that 
ASGs entry is not a charge on Mr and Mrs Ls house. Its a restriction. A charge and a 
restriction are not the same. 
In very general terms, a charge is used to secure a debt -such as a mortgage  and it allows 
the mortgage company to take possession and sell the property in the event of 
nonrepayment. Thats not what ASG have registered. Theyve registered a restriction. Again, 
in very general terms, a restriction is something that restricts a property owner from doing 
certain things  such as selling the property - without the consent of the business named in 
the restriction. Here thats ASG. 
Restrictions take many forms. ASG have said its restriction is there to make sure its 
informed if Mr and Mrs L want to sell the property before theyve finished paying for the 
boiler. ASG told us that in these situations, once its aware of a customer wanting to sell a 
property where its goods are installed, it will work with both the outgoing and incoming 
owners to offer solutions relating to the ownership of the goods. My understanding of the 
restriction is that it wouldnt stop Mr and Mrs L being able to re-mortgage their home, nor 
would they need ASGs permission to do this. 
Mr and Mrs L say it was never explained exactly what the entry at HM Land Registry 
entailed. I dont accept this. They told us that ASG said an entry would be made at HM Land 
Registry, but not that it would be a charge against the house  theyd had a charge against 
the house before for something else so they understood what this was, but this wasnt how 
ASG explained it to them. As above, ASG have registered a restriction over the property, not a charge. Thats why any 
explanation from ASG wouldnt have been about a charge. I can see that Mr and Mrs L 
previously had a charging order and restriction registered over their property some years 
ago by another business. This isnt quite the same as a charge, but the differences arent 
relevant to this complaint. But its clear that Mr and Mrs L had some knowledge and 
understanding of what a charge and a charging order were. 
Its also clear to me that theyve confused these with the restriction that ASG have registered 
over their home. Im not surprised ASGs explanation of what this was for didnt bear any 
resemblance to a charge or a charging order. Thats because its not the same at all. 
Mr and Mrs L have told us and ASG that the entry on HM Land Registry was discussed 
during the sales process. Ive also seen a checklist the salesperson completed. This states 
the entry at HM Land Registry has been fully explained to the customer. This checklist is 
from December 2015, shortly before the boiler was installed. Its signed by Mr L. 
On balance, Im satisfied ASG did give a clear explanation of the restriction during the sales 
process. Its also stated clearly on both the agreement and a further explanation is given on 
the pre-contract credit information Mr and Mrs L were given. Im satisfied that over the years 
since taking out the agreement, theyve misinterpreted what the actual restriction is and 
mistaken it for a charge or charging order. Taking all this into account, I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances here to tell ASG to remove the 
restriction. 
In summary, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im minded to direct ASG to clean the 
magnetic filter during the annual service, and to pay £150 to Mr and Mrs L for the distress 
and inconvenience theyve experienced. Im not minded to direct ASG to remove the 
restriction at HM Land Registry. 
I gave both parties time to reply to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs L didnt accept my 
provisional decision. In brief, they said: the expansion vessel is sited within the boiler 
housing; the pressure it controls is paramount and needs to be checked during the annual 
service; its their word against ASGs about what and how the agreement was sold and they 
remain adamant that it was mis-sold to them; and, ASG have so many claims against it,  
someone in authority should now take a stand against ASG. 
ASG accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything afresh, I see no reason to depart from the outcome I reached in 
my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs L have told us the expansion vessel is sited within the boiler housing. I accept 
this. As I said in my provisional decision outlined above, if this is the case, I would expect 
this to be checked during the annual service and be covered under the 10-year boiler 
warranty. If its lost pressure, I would expect this to be dealt with.
 
Mr and Mrs L have also said its their word against ASGs about how the agreement was 
sold. I would confirm again that Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments 
that all the parties have supplied to us. Having done this, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied the agreement wasnt mis-sold by ASG. Nothing in 
Mr and Mrs Ls response to my provisional decision has changed that.
 
Mr and Mrs L have said that ASG has so many claims against it, someone in authority 
should take a stand against it. I would point out that I have reached my decision based on 
the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, not what may or may not have 
happened in any other complaints against ASG.
 
Also, the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt to fine or punish a business. We are 
an alternative dispute resolution body. Our role is to resolve individual complaints between 
complainants, such as Mr and Mrs L, and financial businesses like ASG. My final decision 
marks the end of our process to resolve this individual complaint.
Putting things right
In summary, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, ASG needs to clean the 
magnetic filter during the annual service and pay Mr and Mrs L £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP should: clean the magnetic filter as 
part of the annual service; and, pay Mr and Mrs L £150.
 
This final decision marks the end of the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this 
complaint. This means we are unable to look at the merits of it any further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2022. 
John Miles
Ombudsman