DRN-2317327
The complaint
Mr S complains about Coventry Building Society (CBS) and the problems he faced when 
trying to log in to his online banking account.
What happened
In June 2020, CBS made changes to the security process on their online banking facility. 
And when Mr S attempted to log into his online account through this process, he was unable 
to do. So, he raised a complaint about the inconvenience this had caused him.
But, as Mr S had attempted to log into his account on a number of occasions unsuccessfully, 
this activity was flagged to CBS fraud team who called Mr S to discuss this further. Mr S 
was happy about receiving this call unexpectedly and raised a further complaint.
CBS responded and upheld Mr Ss complaint. They recognised Mr S had encountered 
difficulties when trying to log in to his online banking account. Although they werent able to 
find a reason as to why during their investigation, they acknowledged it wouldve been 
upsetting for Mr S. And they didnt dispute that Mr S received a call from a member of their 
fraud team when a complaint was open on his file. So, they offered Mr S £50 to recognise 
the inconvenience hed been caused. Mr S wasnt happy with this response and he asked for 
the offer to be increased to £100. CBS didnt agree with this, so Mr S referred his complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised the difficulties 
Mr S faced when trying to access his account and the upset this wouldve caused. But he 
didnt think CBS had done anything wrong when a member of their fraud team called Mr S. 
He thought CBS had a responsibility to ensure Mr Ss account remained secure and 
understood why they called him after a number of unsuccessful login attempts on his 
account. So, he thought the £50 CBS offered was a fair one and didnt think they needed to 
do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. He explained CBS had offered him £40 for a previous complaint where he 
was inconvenienced much less than this situation. So, he didnt think the £50 was fair. He 
explained the called was received unexpectedly while he was watching live sport, and he 
found this very upsetting. So, he maintained his view that CBS should offer more to resolve 
his complaint. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact the complaint has had on Mr S. Ive no doubt it wouldve 
been both frustrating and concerning to be unable to access his online banking account. And 
I can appreciate the inconvenience Mr S experienced when he received a call unexpectedly 
while he was watching a live sporting event. But for me to say CBS should do something 
more than the offer theyve already made, Id need to be satisfied that offer was unfair. Or 
that CBS didnt acknowledge an error they made. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Its not disputed by CBS that Mr S was unable to log into his online banking using their new 
security process. And although they were unable to determine the cause of this, they 
recognised the inconvenience this wouldve caused. CBS offered £50 to recognise this. And 
I think this is a fair offer. I think this takes into consideration the length of time Mr S was 
unable to access his account and the efforts he took to try and resolve the issue.
Mr S also thought the £50 was fair to recognise that aspect of the complaint. But Mr S 
doesnt think its enough to account for the call he received from the fraud team and the 
frustration this caused. So, Ive considered whether I think CBS did anything wrong when 
calling Mr S. And if so, whether further compensation should be awarded.
CBS have confirmed Mr S was called by their fraud team as hed unsuccessfully attempted 
to log into his account on several occasions. Theyve explained this triggered an alert which 
resulted in the fraud team calling Mr S to ensure it was him that had made those attempts. 
And I dont think this was an unreasonable step for CBS to take. Building societies such as 
CBS have a responsibility to ensure their customers accounts are secure. And I can 
understand why a number of failed log in attempts would give them cause for concern. I 
think their call to Mr S was one made in good faith, to ensure he wasnt at risk of having his 
account accessed fraudulently. So, I dont think itd be fair for me to say theyve done 
something wrong by calling him.
Thats not say I havent considered Mr Ss point about there being an open complaint on his 
file. I can understand Mr Ss view that, had the fraud team checked his file beforehand, they 
wouldve seen there was an outstanding issue relating to his ability to log in online. And I 
dont disagree. But I dont think it would be fair for me to say CBS should be expected to do 
so. I wouldnt expect CBS fraud team to read through each customers complete file before 
making a call to ensure their account was secure. As an alert was triggered, Id expect CBS 
to contact the customer as soon as possible to ensure there is no direct threat to that 
account. And because of this, I wouldnt expect them to check a customers file for any 
reasons not to call at that moment in time.
I do appreciate Mr S was watching a live event and the call was unexpected and at an 
inconvenient time. But I dont think CBS did anything wrong by contacting him. And as I dont 
think they did anything wrong, I cant say they should offer any further compensation.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. And he doesnt think this falls in line 
with previous offers of compensation CBS have made for different issues. But Im unable to 
consider previous issues and the associated offers as part of this complaint. Its my role to 
focus solely on the aspects of this complaint, and whether I think the offer made was a fair 
one. And having done so, I think it is.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Coventry Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman