DRN-3191475
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a claim 
under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs P contacted IPA when the back door to her property wouldnt open. IPA sent an 
engineer, who found the lock had failed due to wear and tear. The only way to open it was 
by forcing it, which he did. This caused damage to the door. The engineer secured the door 
and left.
IPA then sent another engineer. This engineer said the door needed to be replaced because 
the lock was obsolete. The engineer also offered to repair the damage by the first engineer 
with a heat gun. But Mrs P declined this.
Mrs P complained to IPA and provided a report from her own engineer. When IPA replied it 
said the door had to be replaced because the lock was obsolete and the only way for the first 
engineer to gain entry was by forcing the door. IPA said that Mrs Ps engineer report said the 
door needed to be replaced because the door was damaged, but didnt indicate they had 
tried to source a lock, which suggested it was obsolete. The policy didnt provide cover for 
replacement doors. However, IPA offered £370 as a gesture of goodwill towards the cost of 
a new door.
When Mrs P complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
there wasnt any evidence that the lock was still available, which meant the door needed 
replacing regardless of any damage by the engineer. This wasnt covered by the policy. He 
said the compensation offered was fair in the circumstances.
As Mrs P didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The first engineer forced the door open. I havent seen anything to suggest it was 
unnecessary or unreasonable for him to do so, as my understanding is that this was the only 
way to open the door. The policy didnt cover Repair of damage incurred in gaining 
necessary access either by you or by our authorised repairer. However, the second 
engineer offered to repair the damage caused by the first engineer, but Mrs P declined this.
The engineer also found that the door lock was obsolete and so couldnt be replaced. Mrs P 
was told she would need to replace the door. I havent seen anything to suggest that the lock 
could have been replaced, including in the engineers report provided by Mrs P. So, from 
what Ive seen, the door needed to be replaced regardless of any damage by the engineer. 
The policy didnt include replacing the door. It only covered replacing the lock, which didnt 
seem to be possible in this instance. So, I cant see that IPA needed to replace the door 
under the terms of the policy or that it needed to do so because of the actions of the 
engineer. However, IPA offered £370 as a gesture of goodwill towards the cost of the new 
door. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances and I dont require IPA to do anything 
further. I note that IPA told Mrs P that it would leave this compensation offer open for her to 
accept at any time. So, I leave it to Mrs P to contact IPA if she now wishes to accept the 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman