DRN-3685065
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). Portal processed the transfer of Mr Hs scheme benefits to the 
SIPP on an insistent client basis. Mr H says Portal badly advised him and has caused him a 
financial loss.
What happened
In or around late 2014, Mr H had recently turned 55 and was employed earning around 
£15,000 a year. He wasnt intending to retire for the foreseeable future. Mr H had no 
savings, assets or investments and lived in rented accommodation. His only retirement 
provision (other than his state pension) was his employers DB occupational pension 
scheme which, in December 2014 was calculated to give him an income of £3,294 per year 
and a tax-free lump sum of £4,767 at his normal retirement date (NRD) age of 65. 
Mr H came into contact with Portal after having seen an advertisement about releasing cash 
from pensions. Mr H had gambling debts and payday loans totalling £8,000, which he was 
paying off at £900 a month, and thought that he might be able to access some cash from his 
pension to clear them. 
Portal sent Mr H a TVAS report on 12 January 2015 and wrote to him inviting him to set up a 
telephone appointment with one of its paraplanners. The letter said that the paraplanner 
would talk through the options. The report said that the critical yield required for Mr Hs SIPP 
to grow in order to match the benefits he had under his DB scheme was 10.8% if he took a 
full pension or 9.3% if he took tax-free cash (TFC) and a pension. 
On 20 January 2015, Portal took some details from Mr H over the phone and completed a 
fact-find. It noted that Mr H was in good health, that he didnt want to take an income from 
his pension at that point, was still working and that his main objective was to take the 
maximum TFC available in order to clear down debts, free up his income and help his 
daughter move to America. 
Portal noted Mr Hs income was £1,200 per month, that it had discussed with Mr H the loss 
or reduction of his guaranteed DB scheme benefits and that if he took TFC now, then he 
could not take any TFC at a later date. Portal also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs 
attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to be moderately cautious. 
On 21 January 2015, Portal sent a letter to Mr H in which it said his DB scheme had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £50,827 from which he could release a lump sum of 
£12,706 as TFC. It went on to say that as the critical yield was 10.8%, the transfer was 
against its recommendation. It further stated that Mr H would be waiving his entitlement to a 
guaranteed pension of £3,937 and TFC of £5,698 at his NRD of age 65. The letter 
immediately went on to say that if he did still want to effect the transfer then it could help him 
do so that but it would need to treat him as an insistent client. The letter included an options 
form and asked Mr H to tick the box on the form that was right for him. 
Mr H signed the form on 24 January 2015. It said at the top that the form was to let Portal 
know whether Mr H still wanted to go ahead and access his pension fund early even though 
this would go against its recommendation. Mr H ticked the box that said; Option 1: Income 
Drawdown  After taking the tax-free cash sum of £12,706, the residual amount of £38,121 
will be reinvested until you require an income. You will be treated as an insistent client. The 
form also included a second section which included some typed paragraphs where Mr H 
stated that he understood that his plan was unlikely to achieve the critical yield necessary to 
match the benefits of his DB scheme, that he was giving up a guaranteed pension and lump 
sum and what his pension might look light at NRD if he took the TFC he was intending to 
take. Finally, the form stated that Mr H understood he was transferring his DB pension 
against Portals advice. 
Portal sent Mr H its suitability report on 29 January 2015 together with a covering letter. The 
covering letter said it was recommending that Mr H transfer his pension to a SIPP and that in 
so doing he would receive the TFC previously identified and that he would have access to 
further advice whenever he decided to take an income from the funds. The letter also asked 
that if Mr H agreed with its recommendation then he should sign the enclosed forms. 
The suitability report said that Portal recommended that Mr H leave his DB scheme where it 
was but, being treated as an insistent client, he had asked Portal to make a recommendation 
about how he could utilise his pension funds. Portal said that it was therefore recommending 
that he transfer it to a SIPP (with N). The report said that the recommendation allowed Mr H 
to meet his objectives to repay his debts and help his daughter go to America. It went on to 
say that it was recommending Mr H transfer his DB scheme to a balanced portfolio offered 
by N that included a mixture of equities, fixed interest securities, secured bonds and cash. 
Portal said it had based this recommendation on Mr Hs ATR, capacity for loss and term to 
NRD. 
Mr H signed the transfer forms on 12 March 2015 and the transfer took place shortly after. 
Portals fee for arranging the transfer was 5% of the total transfer value. It also charged 1% 
of the fund value per year for reviewing Mr Hs investment. N charged an initial fee of £180, 
an annual fee of £75 and an annual management charge of 0.5% of the fund value. 
In October 2020 Mr H complained to Portal about the suitability of the transfer advice and 
the charges he incurred as a result. He said Portal had failed to provide clear and 
understandable advice about the comparison of pension benefits between the DB scheme 
and the proposed SIPP. Mr H said the suitability report referred briefly to his stated objective 
to clear down debts but otherwise provided only generic objectives. He said there wasnt any 
consideration about whether his only stated objective could have been met without 
transferring away from the scheme. Mr H said that had he been clearly warned about the 
specific benefits he was giving up he wouldve accepted that advice. 
Mr H went on to say that he was reliant on the DB scheme as his only pension provision. 
And he said he was asked to sign an insistent client form facilitating the transfer before any 
suitability report was produced. Finally, Mr H said he wanted compensation to put him in the 
position he would have been in had he received suitable advice from Portal. 
Portal looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had 
clearly communicated to Mr H that it wasnt in his best interests to proceed with the 
transaction. And it said it had made him aware of the guaranteed benefits he was giving up. 
Portal said it had followed the correct regulatory procedures in place at the time and had 
provided Mr H with all the information he needed to make an informed decision but that he 
had wished to proceed as an insistent client. Mr H referred his complaint to our service in June 2021. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and recommended it was upheld. He thought that Portals insistent client process 
was flawed and hadnt done enough to explain to Mr H why the transfer wasnt in his best 
interests. He said that given Mr Hs ATR and lack of investment experience, Portal should 
have exercised more caution when it said it could assist Mr H as an insistent client. Our 
investigator recommended that Portal pay compensation to Mr H. 
Portal disagreed with our investigators findings stating that it had acted in Mr Hs best 
interests and made sure he understood about investment growth. It said it had advised 
against the transfer, had explained about, and compared, the benefits he would be 
relinquishing but Mr H decided to proceed with the transfer anyway. Portal said it had 
complied with all the regulators requirements at the time of the advice and that it was 
satisfied that Mr H understood the risk he was taking by proceeding. It said the suitability 
report it sent Mr H made it clear that the transfer was against its advice and explained why 
the transaction wouldnt be in line with its recommendation. Portal also said it insistent client 
process and documents demonstrated best practice for insistent client transactions. It said 
that Mr H would have transferred his DB scheme without its involvement given the situation 
he was in.
Our investigator looked at the complaint again but wasnt persuaded to change his mind. He 
said whilst the regulator hadnt introduced guidance about insistent clients until 2018, 
advisers before that date were still required to conduct business with due skill, care and 
diligence. Our investigator said, with this in mind, he remained of the view that Portals 
process for insistent clients was flawed. He said Portal had enabled Mr H to access his TFC 
without fully understanding if it was in his best interests to do so.
The complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portals actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Portal should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Hs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
A key aspect in this case is Portals categorisation of Mr H as an insistent client. An insistent 
client is one that wishes to take a different course of action from that being recommended 
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there were no regulatory rules in place in respect of insistent 
clients. But there were rules in the regulators Handbook, which required Portal to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In 
addition, COBS required Portal to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
So, Portals recommendation had to be clear and Mr H had to have understood the 
consequences of going against the recommendation.
Portal says that it provided suitable advice and acted in Mr Hs best interests. It says that it 
followed the correct regulatory requirements in place at the time. Mr H says Portals advice 
was negligent and hes suffered a loss as a result.
Having considered all of the evidence presented, while Portals suitability report did set out 
that its recommendation for Mr H was not to proceed with the transfer, I think there were 
weaknesses and failings in the advice process, which meant Portal didnt act in Mr Hs best 
interests. And I think its likely that Mr H understood or believed overall that Portal was 
recommending he should go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because even before the fact-find telephone advice call Portal had with Mr H on 
20 January 2015 it sent him a brief letter on 12 January 2015. That letter invited Mr H to set 
up a telephone appointment to talk through the options. The letter then went on to set out the 
CETV of the DB scheme and the also that the critical yield was 10.8%. And there was then a 
section that said, What are your options right now? after which three options were listed  
to do nothing, to do a pension release to transfer benefits and release a tax-free sum of 
£12,706 or thirdly, to take full benefits and retire with an income. 
This letter didnt set out any of the risks associated with making the transfer rather it went on 
to set out the advantages. Given the situation Mr H was in at the time, I think it was 
imperative, if it was to act in Mr Hs best interests, that Portal set out the disadvantages 
alongside the advantages. But that isnt what happened. And the letter was sent before any 
fact-find was completed or any advice given.
Then, on 21 January 2015, following the telephone discussion about his pension options 
Portal had with Mr H the previous day, Portal sent him what I think can only be described as 
another brief letter with the outcome of its advice. The letter said that because of the growth 
rate required to match Mr Hs guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme, and because hed 
be giving up those guaranteed benefits, it recommended he should not transfer away from his DB scheme to access a tax-free cash lump sum. But I dont think either that this letter 
clearly set out the risks associated with the transfer.
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the 
transfer was not in Mr Hs best interests. But the information on this form was limited to the 
loss of guarantees and the growth required to match his existing benefits. While Portal later 
sent a more detailed suitability report, which I will refer to later on, at this stage Mr H had 
little information to go off to decide if being an insistent client was truly in his best interests.
Yet immediately underneath the brief summary of why Portal recommended Mr H should not 
transfer away from his DB scheme, it said that he could go about doing it regardless, by 
effecting his right to transfer on an insistent client basis. And while it said this would be 
against Portals recommendation, it enclosed the necessary forms Mr H needed to complete 
and return to pursue this option. And option 1 he was presented with was to go against 
Portals advice  the second option was to do nothing as per its recommendation. It strikes 
me that Portals process here was geared towards facilitating the transfer and that from the 
start of the relationship, Mr H was being led towards a transfer to secure his TFC regardless 
of whether it was in his best interests to do so.
I think if Portal firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mr Hs 
best interests, not only would it have given more detail upfront and placed greater emphasis 
on the reasons why the transfer wasnt in Mr Hs best interests, it also wouldnt have told him 
at the same time as delivering its recommendation - albeit briefly - how he could put it aside 
and bypass it. I think the wording and the emphasis placed on how Mr H could ignore 
Portals recommendation was unfair to him and wasnt in his best interests.
I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests to go against Portals recommendation  yet Portal 
made it very easy for him to do so. I also think, given the context and the emphasis placed 
on this, that Mr H could reasonably have interpreted that overall Portal was recommending 
he go ahead and transfer.
I think also that it ought to have been clear to Portal that Mr H had little knowledge or 
experience of financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. 
For example theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find to suggests Mr H 
was an experienced investor  in fact it appears he was completely inexperienced. It is 
documented that Mr H even have a mortgage or any savings. Im mindful too that Portal 
assessed Mr Hs ATR as being moderately cautious. This process involved Mr H giving 
answers to a series of questions  one of which was about his understanding of investments 
for which he ticked the box to say he strongly disagreed that he found investment matters 
easy to understand. Indeed the answers to the ATR questions Mr H gave indicated that he 
had a very low attitude to risk.  
I think this shouldve put Portal on notice that it had to be very careful if it was to take Mr H 
through the insistent client route.
I can see that Mr Hs insistent client forms included a declaration section where Mr H was 
required to sign that he understood what the critical yield was, that it was unlikely hed be 
able to match the benefits held with his existing scheme, that he would be giving up 
guaranteed benefits which Portal didnt recommend he proceed with but if he still wanted to 
then he would be treated as an insistent client. It went on to say that Mr H wanted to proceed 
as his priority was to repay debt and help his daughter go to America (ahead of retirement 
planning) and also that he was fully aware of the charges associated with the transfer. I dont think that in signing this declaration that it adequately demonstrates that Mr H knew 
and understood the risks involved and the recommendation he was agreeing to. I say this 
because the form was pre-completed and all Mr H had to do was simply tick a box and sign 
the declaration to say that he understood what he was giving up by transferring. 
And crucially, as I indicated earlier on, Mr H, at this point, had yet to receive Portals full 
suitability report. So he had had no time to read and digest it before having to decide if he 
wanted to go ahead anyway. So Im not persuaded that at the time Mr H completed the 
forms on 24 January 2015 that he was in a position to make an informed choice here. And 
I dont think this document alone sufficiently demonstrates that Mr H was truly an insistent 
client.
It was only after receiving Mr Hs confirmation that he wanted to proceed with the transfer 
that Portal sent him its full suitability report. And while this repeated the recommendation 
not to transfer out of the DB scheme, it was followed by a positive recommendation, 
advising Mr H to transfer his benefits to facilitate access to his tax-free cash. And this was 
all set out under a heading titled Our recommendations.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Portal needed to give Mr H 
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged, that is the transfer and the 
choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mr H advice on the advice to transfer, 
and only considered the suitability of the proposed alternative in the full suitability report after 
securing his confirmation to proceed on an insistent client basis.
So, by recommending that Mr H transfer his benefits to a particular scheme, not only did this 
undermine the recommendation not to transfer, I think Portal has effectively given him a 
recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme. If Portal didnt think that transferring out 
of the DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Mr Hs best interests, it needed 
to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable for him. In 
my view it shouldnt have separated out the elements. For this reason, I think on receipt of 
the full suitability report Mr H likely believed Portal was recommending he transfer out of the 
DB scheme, and that it was reasonable for him to do so.
Mr Hs main objective for accessing his pension early was to enable him to generate a lump 
sum which he could use to clear his debts. Theres no record of what Mr Hs £8,000 debt 
was comprised of, other than a general reference to payday loans and gambling debts, what 
the repayments term(s) were or the interest rates. All I can see from the fact find was that Mr 
H was paying £900 a month towards the debt. What I cant tell is how long exactly it would 
have taken him to completely clear the debt he owed. Based on the repayments and the 
total sum owed, it is possible that he could have been debt free within about a year. But if 
Portal was truly acting in Mr Hs best interests, it would have obtained this information from 
him. That way it could advise him fully on his options. But it didnt. It only noted the amount 
of debt and that after outgoings each month of £300 and repayments of £900 Mr H had 
nothing left over from his monthly take home pay of £1,200. 
There was no exploration of the term of the debt outstanding. And, if it was very short term, 
then I think Portal ought to have first considered whether Mr H could or should just continue 
with paying until his debt was cleared rather than relinquish his DB pension scheme. Nor 
was there any exploration of whether (as an alternative to transferring his pension and 
accessing his TFC) it was possible for Mr H to restructure the loan(s) to reduce the monthly 
repayments to a more affordable amount. So, whilst Portal claims to have considered alternative ways for Mr H to meet his main 
objective of clearing his debt, having reviewed the evidence, Im unable to agree. What 
options (if any) were discussed arent documented. So whilst I can understand why Mr H 
might have said to Portal that he didnt want to take on any more debt or pay interest, given 
75% of his take home pay was being spent servicing debt, I dont think accepting his 
statement without challenge can be said to mean Portal was acting in Mr Hs best interests. 
I think it should have explored the debt situation thoroughly and given Mr H some options he 
was able to consider. Unfortunately, Portals advice was presented to Mr H in such a way 
that he was likely left with the impression that the only way he could clear his debts and 
reduce his monthly outgoings was by transferring his pension and accessing the TFC. But as 
Portal didnt explore any possible options with him I cant know if this was actually the case 
or not. 
I also cant see that Portal assessed what income Mr H would need in retirement or how hed 
fund it if he transferred out.
Nor can I agree that advising Mr H to transfer his guaranteed pension benefits in order to 
access TFC so he could help his daughter take a holiday was in his best interests  
particularly when, aside from his state pension, his DB scheme was his only retirement 
provision. Im sure that being able to help his daughter go to America would have seemed 
attractive to Mr H but I cannot agree that it was suitable to advise him to transfer his DB 
scheme in order to access what would have been a relatively small proportion of the TFC, 
and for which there may have existed other means, unexplored by Portal, to raise it. I know 
that Portal stated in the suitability report that Mr H didnt want to take on any more lending 
but it doesnt seem to me that it explored the possibility of restructuring his loans, perhaps to 
take their repayment term out a bit, so he would have more disposable income available 
every month which he could have used to assist his daughter. I note too that no time frame 
was placed on his daughters need for the money so it seems to me that Portal cant be said 
to have acted in Mr Hs best interests if it didnt have a full understand of why, and when, he 
needed the money. Ive seen no evidence that Portal explored any alternatives with Mr H. 
I acknowledge there were no specific insistent client rules at the time. But I consider the 
regulatory rules and guidance that were in place at the time were clear that Portal had to act 
with due care and skill and in Mr Hs best interests. By not seeking to properly understand 
Mr Hs objectives and what he was really trying to achieve, and not fully exploring the 
alternatives before carrying things out, Im not persuaded it can be said to have been acting 
in Mr Hs best interests.
Ultimately I dont think Mr H was able to make an informed choice here  it seems to me that 
he most likely went ahead with the transfer as he believed it seemed like a good idea and it 
was the only way to meet his objectives. Portal failed to properly understand Mr Hs overall 
position and overlooked or ignored any possible alternatives. Furthermore, I think the way 
Portal presented its recommendation to Mr H wouldve led him to believe it was giving him a 
positive recommendation to transfer out of the scheme. And I think this wouldve given Mr H 
the impression that Portal agreed with his approach.
Portal recommended that Mr H invest in four funds (5% in cash, 60% in equity, 10% in 
property and 25% in a global short dated bond). As Im upholding the complaint on the 
grounds that Mr H cannot be truly regarded as an insistent client therefore making the 
transfer out of his DB scheme unsuitable, it follows that I dont need to consider the 
suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr H should have been 
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in the SIPP wouldnt have 
arisen if suitable advice had been given.Overall, and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
conclude the process Portal followed meant that Mr H can truly be regarded as an insistent 
client - I think Portal made it altogether too easy for Mr H to agree that he was an insistent 
client. Portals overall communication with Mr H wasnt clear or fair, it didnt act in his best 
interests and it failed to act with due care and skill.
I now need to consider if Portal had followed the insistent client process correctly, whether 
Mr H wouldve still gone ahead. Portal says that because of the situation Mr H was in he 
wouldve accessed his DB pension benefits early regardless of Portals involvement.
But I disagree. If Portal had acted in Mr Hs best interests, providing a recommendation on 
the suitability of the whole of the transaction envisaged at the outset, and addressing Mr Hs 
true objectives at the time, I dont think he wouldve insisted on going ahead with the 
transfer. As Ive outlined above, I dont consider Mr H to be an experienced investor who 
possessed the requisite knowledge, skill or had the confidence to go against the advice and 
recommendation he was given. I think he relied solely on the advice and process Portal 
employed.
So if things had happened as they should have, taking everything into account, I dont think it 
likely Mr H would have insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr H for its failings using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr H. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience. Such awards arent intended to fine or 
punish Portal but rather to recognise the emotional and practical impact its actions have had 
on Mr H. And taking everything into account, including that I consider Mr H is now at the age 
when his retirement provision is of greater importance to him, I think the unsuitable advice 
has caused him distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.Weve previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to be published. He didnt make a 
choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for any 
new guidance. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr H. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mr H could have taken his pension benefits without reduction at 
age 65 and he has told our investigator that that is the age at which he intends to retire. So I 
think, had Mr H remained in his DB scheme, then he would have most likely accessed it at 
this point. Consequently Portal should base the compensation payment on Mr Hs schemes 
normal retirement age of 65. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible, or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Portal Financial Services LLP should also pay Mr H compensation of £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience its unsuitable advice caused him. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman