DRN-2728557
The complaint
Mr D and Miss Hs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) relates to a declined Apple 
Pay transaction Mr D tried to make in October 2020.
What happened
Mr D tried to pay for some goods whilst he was in a store he regularly visits using his Apple 
Pay but it was declined. That meant he had to use another method of payment and as there 
was a long queue behind him he said he felt embarrassed. When Mr D called Lloyds to find 
out what had happened, he was told that limits were put on Apple Pay transactions but that 
he could unblock the temporary block placed on his card by using it with his PIN.
Mr D complained to Lloyds arguing the transaction ought not to have been declined because 
there was sufficient credit in his account at the relevant time; it had never happened before; 
Apple Pay was more secure than chip and PIN; the transaction was not an unusual one; that 
he had not been told that using chip and PIN in such circumstances would resolve the issue; 
he had been able to use Apple Pay linked to a third party card; there had been no excessive 
use of Apple Pay and that contactless payments were now part of the way of the world.
Lloyds said that the limits it sets on transactions vary and that in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the account it was entitled to change those limits periodically in order to 
help protect against fraud. It also said that it does not notify its customers in advance of any 
such changes because to do so would potentially only assist potential fraudsters avoid 
detection.
Mr D and Miss H were unhappy with Lloyds final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Lloyds hadnt 
done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr D and Miss H didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief, so if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive taken account 
of both sides views when considering whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably, and Ive 
looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
I can certainly empathise with Mr D and Miss H as it is both embarrassing and frustrating 
when ones card is declined at the point of sale. However, what I am required to consider is 
whether Lloyds have acted unfairly or unreasonably here, and I do not think it has. 
The reason I say that is because I start with the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account. Ive 
considered these and they very clearly provide that Lloyds are able to decline transactions in 
certain circumstances. In Mr Ds case Lloyds have confirmed that it did so because it was 
part of Lloyds security process and I note Mr D has accepted that Lloyds do have to have 
such procedures in place. The issue Mr D has is that he feels the transaction he was making 
was safe in any event because of Apple Pays own security features and that he ought to 
have been notified. But I do not think it is reasonable to ask Lloyds to rely on a third partys 
security arrangements and in my view it is both sensible and fair for Lloyds to have in place 
its own. 
Fraud is a very significant issue for banks and financial institutions which leads me to the 
second issue of Mr D and Miss H not being notified in advance of any transaction limits by 
Lloyds. I can understand why Mr D and Miss H might wish to know what these limits were, 
and to be notified when they change. But, Lloyds are uniquely placed to know and respond 
to any likely threats and I think that a requirement to notify its customers in advance of any 
counter fraud measures it might be taking would be self-defeating, since the risk would be 
that fraudsters would learn of them and adapt their practices. 
So, I think it is fair that Lloyds dont notify Mr D and Miss H in advance and in any event it is 
entitled not to do so by virtue of the terms and conditions applicable to the account.
Lloyds do however have in place a procedure for dealing with the eventuality of a declined 
transaction which is to use the cardholders card and PIN. I think that is a fair and 
reasonable process and although I can see that this involves carrying around the card as 
well as the device on which Apple Pay is installed, it is a reasonable and proportionate step 
in order to help safeguard against fraudulent activity.
I know Mr D has said he feels that Lloyds algorithm was not correct in so far as it applied to 
his account but there is no evidence as to whether it was or was not or indeed if such is in 
use. And I also know that Mr D has clarified that the store he was in when making his 
purchase was a member only store thus enhancing security, but I come back to my original 
point which is that I feel it is reasonable for Lloyds to satisfy itself on its own security 
measures rather than relying on third parties.
So, in conclusion I think Lloyds have acted fairly in the circumstances here, they declined a 
card transaction because of fraud concerns and offered a solution with chip and PIN. That is 
reasonable in my view and so although Mr D and Miss H will probably be disappointed with 
my decision, I cant say Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman