DRN-2391283
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont pay for the cost of 
damage caused after it cleared a drain blockage.
What happened
Mrs A and Mr A had home emergency insurance with UKI arranged through their bank. For 
ease, and because he dealt with the claim, Ill refer only to Mr A throughout my decision.
UKI attended to Mr As report of a blocked toilet in his en-suite bathroom. It jetted the drain, 
leaving the property with a free-flowing drain and unblocked toilet. 
Over the following weeks, Mr A suffered an escape of water which damaged his kitchen 
ceiling and cupboards. He contacted UKI which advised him to arrange for trace and access 
through his home insurance or privately. Mr A had a CCTV inspection and a full trace and 
access investigation which showed the leak was from a dislodged soil pipe. One report 
stated that jetting couldve caused the leak and the other stated with near certainty that 
jetting caused it.
Mr A sent the reports to UKI and asked it to pay for the investigation and repair work 
because he thought it was responsible for the damage. UKI declined his claim because it 
jetted away from the house, so it couldnt have caused damage inside.
Mr A complained to UKI and it agreed to send an engineer to look at the leak and damage. 
The owner of the jetting company attended but he maintained the view that jetting couldnt 
have caused the damage. Mr A raised a further complaint about the company owners 
response to their claim.
 
Our investigator didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. On balance, our investigator 
thought that UKI hadnt jetted towards the house so it wouldnt have damaged the soil pipe 
situated inside and upstairs.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the toilet wouldnt have been unblocked by jetting away from the 
house and remained of the view that UKI caused the damage to the soil pipe. 
 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr A will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Theres no dispute that UKI cleared the original blockage. The main issue here is whether 
its likely UKI damaged Mr As soil pipe while doing so, leading to water damage in his 
kitchen and two bathrooms. 
In support of his claim that UKI damaged the soil pipe, Mr A provided a report from his 
builder stating that jetting dislodged the soil stack; a cctv report which said jetting towards 
the house couldve caused the leak; photos of the damage; evidence of trace and access 
costs, and repair quotes.
UKI provided a copy of its job notes; policy terms and conditions, and its engineers 
response to the claim.
Mr A says the leak started around two days after UKI resolved the blockage, and he reported 
it to UKI over three weeks later. UKI says it couldnt have caused the damage because it 
traced the blockage to an inspection chamber and cleared it by jetting away from the house.
Ive thought carefully about whats likely to have happened here, and I can see why Mr A 
would think it too much of a coincidence for the leak to start so soon after UKI jetted the 
drain. He hasnt provided any explanation of how jetting away from the house wouldve 
caused the dislodged soil stack and, looking at this comments and evidence, it seems he 
believes UKI jetted towards the house. In the absence of any evidence to say how jetting 
downstream couldve caused the leak, Ill explain my decision based on Mr As assumption 
that UKI jetted upstream. If that is the case, and doing so caused a leak, I dont think UKI is 
responsible for the subsequent damage. Thats because:
if UKI had jetted upstream, and doing so dislodged the soil stack, I think its likely that 
the problem wouldve been evident almost immediately, and
the soil stack shouldve been in a good enough condition to withstand a jetting 
procedure.
So, if UKI did jet upstream, Mr As soil stack shouldnt have leaked anyway. The fact that it 
did, for whatever reason, suggests that the connection wasnt of an appropriate standard 
and wouldnt have been covered under the policy.
Each party has provided information which contradicts the other, but I find the comment in 
UKIs notes the most relevant and persuasive:
 [internal soil pipes] are designed to be able to be jetted as per the British standard, and 
also be completely sealed or glued internally and not be able to move.  [The leak] then is an 
issue of quality of materials and workmanship.
Mr As policy doesnt provide cover where the damage is due to materials not meeting 
expected industry standards.
Ive thought about whether UKI couldve done more when Mr A reported the leak to it. The 
policy states:
General conditions
We will provide you with theHome Emergency Service provided you observe all the 
following general conditions.
(a) All requests for Emergency Assistance must be madewithin 24 hours of discovering 
the Emergency. If you contact an Authorised Repairer or other repairer directly the policy 
benefits will not apply.(b) If any loss, damage or expense included within this policy is also covered by any other 
insurance, maintenance contract, guarantee or warranty, we will not pay more than our 
share of the claim.
Mr A didnt report the leak to UKI until three weeks after he says he first noticed it. While I 
understand he was busy at work, Im satisfied that UKI couldve reasonably declined his 
claim under this term. I see that UKI directed Mr A to his home insurance and, after his initial 
reluctance, the repairs have been done.
As a final point, Mr A complained that UKI sent the company owner to investigate his claim 
about the leak instead of an engineer, and he felt their attitude was dismissive. I havent 
seen anything in the evidence to indicate that Mr As claim wasnt taken seriously, and I dont 
think it was unreasonable for UKIs contractor to send whichever person it deemed most 
appropriate in the circumstances. I dont think it did anything wrong here.
In summary, Im satisfied that UKI handled Mr As claim fairly and that theres no evidence to 
suggest it did anything wrong to cause a leak in Mr As soil pipe. Im persuaded by the 
evidence that the most likely reason for the damage is wear and tear or workmanship which 
doesnt meet the standards needed to withstand current drain unblocking procedures, so I 
see no reason to ask UKI to pay towards any of the costs relating to the soil pipe damage.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman