DRN-3448563
The complaint
G, a limited company complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) accepted a mandate when it 
shouldnt have. 
Mr K, a director of G, wants Lloyds to reverse the changes that it made to the business 
account.
What happened
Mr K is a director of G together with a second director, I will refer to as D2. Mr K says that in 
2020, Lloyds received a signed mandate from G purporting to be signed by him. Lloyds 
didnt process the mandate as the signature didnt match the one it held on file for Mr K. 
Following this, Lloyds agreed to make Mr K aware of any such documents in the future.
In May 2021, Lloyds received another signed mandate which added a third-party to Gs 
business account. Mr K is unhappy that this happened without his knowledge. Hes also 
unhappy about the way he was treated by D2 during a video call with Lloyds.
As Mr K and D2 are in dispute, Lloyds has placed a block on Gs business account. Mr K 
says that this has delayed business deals which has in turn led him to incur additional costs. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Gs complaint be upheld. He thought that Lloyds 
offer to pay Mr K £200 compensation for not telling him about the 2021 mandate was fair. 
But that as the mandate was signed by Mr K and D2, it was reasonable for Lloyds to make 
the changes.
Mr K is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. Mr K doesnt think that weve taken 
account of the financial risk hes facing and that weve ignored the other frauds hes 
highlighted.
Mr K wants the third-party to be removed from Gs business account as it means that D2 and 
the third party can spend the money in Gs account.
Mr K wanted to make sure that Lloyds doesnt continue with any recovery action while were 
still considering Gs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me. I should also say that I can only consider this 
complaint as it relates to G  and not Mr K personally. 
In May 2021, Lloyds received a mandate that was signed by Mr K and D2. Although Mr K 
might not have seen the entire mandate form when he signed it, I cant hold Lloyds 
responsible for this. I consider it was reasonable for Lloyds to act on the signed mandate 
and make the changes to Gs account as requested. I dont require it to reverse the changes 
without first receiving a new mandate signed in accordance with the account terms.
Although Lloyds had previously said it would let Mr K know if it received mandates in the 
future, I dont find this means it shouldnt have acted on a mandate which Mr K 
acknowledges he signed. Lloyds has paid £200 to apologise for not telling Mr K about the 
mandate. It appears that Lloyds made that payment to Mr K personally. As Im considering 
the complaint as it relates to G and not Mr K, I dont have anything further to say about the 
compensation payment.
I appreciate that Mr K is concerned about the way in which D2 and the third party have acted 
but I cant look into the dispute between the directors. And I dont think that its for Lloyds to 
reach a conclusion on any dispute between the directors of G  this would seem to be a 
matter more suited to the courts to decide. 
As Mr K has expressed concerns about the behaviour of D2 towards him, I leave it with him 
to decide whether to take this concerns further with the relevant law authorities. Again, I 
dont consider it would be for Lloyds to intervene on Mr Ks behalf.
Mr K is unhappy that Lloyds hasnt carried out a full investigation into the circumstances 
behind the 2020 mandate. As the mandate wasnt accepted by Lloyds, I cant see that there 
was any loss to G. In the circumstances, I dont require Lloyds to provide further details.
Mr K has mentioned other frauds and/or fraudulent transactions but hasnt given much in the 
way of further details. He has talked of concerns about D2 and the third-party breaching Gs 
loan facility. And Mr K says that D2 and the third-party have attempted to take on extra 
credit. As Ive explained above, these concerns dont relate to the way in which Lloyds has 
treated G. Instead, they appear to arise from differences between the directors about how to 
run G. This isnt something that I can look into but I wish Mr K all the best with resolving 
matters with D2 and the third-party. Lloyds has confirmed that Gs account will remain on 
hold until the dispute is resolved, so I hope this gives some comfort to Mr K.
Finally, Mr K asked that Lloyds not take any recovery action against G while we investigated 
its complaint. Lloyds has previously confirmed to this service that it hadnt started recovery 
action and had extended the repayment date on Gs loan to 31 March 2022. If G has any 
concerns about repaying the loan or if recovery action has since started, it should first raise 
these concerns with Lloyds before coming back to this service if it remains unhappy with the 
outcome.
Overall, I dont find that Lloyds has treated G unfairly so I dont require it to take further 
action to resolve this complaint.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman