Complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a monthly premium 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs I were sold a MPPI policy in 2009 during a meeting. 
Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Is names, the PPI policy only covered Mr I. 
The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr I lost his 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Is complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs I didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Is case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint. I will now explain 
why.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs I that the MPPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to Mr and Mrs Is account.  Mr and Mrs I say MPPI was 
added without their knowledge and consent. And they say that had it been presented to 
them as an optional policy they would have declined it as they had sufficient existing 
repayment provisions in place. 
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs 
I and BoS have told us. And although BoS no longer have all the documents available from 
the time of the sale, Ive considered the available documentation and used my knowledge of 
their sales process in order to help me decide what is more likely to have happened. 
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the letter sent out to Mr and Mrs I following the meeting 
where PPI appears to have been sold. This letter confirms that Mr Is application for MPPI 
has been accepted. Ive also seen documents which summarise the discussions and 
outcome of the meeting. These show that Mr I decided to take unemployment cover alone 
although it was recommended he should take both accident/sickness and unemployment 
DRN-1689222cover. The answers to questions on these documents could only have been correctly 
provided by Mr and Mrs I.
So while I appreciate what Mr and Mrs I have told us, I think its more likely that they knew 
they were being sold MPPI, that it was presented as optional and it was only applied to the 
account because they chose to take it out.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Is main complaint point is that the MPPI was added without 
their consent. But as I have not upheld their complaint on that point, I have gone on to 
consider the other aspects of the sale to check if the policy was mis-sold for any other 
reason. 
First of all Ive considered whether Mr I was eligible under the policy. Based on Mr Is age 
and employment (amongst other things) at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible.
BoS accept they advised Mr and Mrs I to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for them. I dont know if BoS took all the steps they should have to check if the MPPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs I but I do think the policy was suitable for them. I say this 
because:
 
Although Mr I has told us about his generous sick pay entitlement, this wouldnt have 
made this policy unsuitable for Mr I because it appears Mr I only chose to take out 
unemployment cover.
 
Mr I hasnt told us about any redundancy pay entitlement. But in any event the MPPI 
would have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mr I may have been entitled 
to and would have done so for up to 12 months per claim. Mr and Mrs I say they had 
some savings. The MPPI was protecting a valuable asset and Mr and Mrs I could 
have used the savings for other important bills and living expenses while the MPPI 
took care of the mortgage repayments. So I dont think the existence of these savings 
made the MPPI unsuitable for Mr and Mrs I.
 
Mr I doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy. 
 
I havent seen any evidence which suggests the MPPI was unaffordable for Mr and 
Mrs I.
 
Mr and Mrs I could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out financially 
if they no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs I, BoS also had to give them 
clear information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs I wasnt as clear as it should have been 
but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs I this 
MPPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman