DRN-3780152
The complaint
Miss H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly handled 
a subsidence claim made under her buildings insurance.
Any reference to Miss H or RSA includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Miss H holds her buildings insurance with RSA.
In January 2019 she made a claim for subsidence. RSA appointed specialists and 
investigations were undertaken. Following this, repairs to drains were carried out. 
And then repairs to the home.
Miss H complained to RSA, saying it made many mistakes that caused avoidable 
delays and unnecessary upheaval moving between alternative accommodation  at 
one point moving properties four times within three months. She described the stress 
of this while maintaining a full-time job and looking after her children. 
RSA responded, saying the investigation and drain repairs proceeded in line with 
what itd expect. But it said there were clear service shortfalls and poor 
communication on its part which caused avoidable delays and frustration to Miss H.
RSA said the matter of alternative accommodation had been exceptionally difficult to 
arrange in the location of Miss Hs home that was outside of RSA and its suppliers 
control. But it said Miss H had done her best to find an appropriate property and RSA 
had not acted upon it as it shouldve done. And it said its communication was poor 
between its agents, Miss H and appointed contractors completing repairs.
RSA apologised for these errors and offered to pay £400 in compensation.
Despite several requests, RSA has not provided a file to this Service to consider.
The complaint was considered by our Investigator who upheld it and awarded £650 
compensation, along with a direction for RSA to provide a breakdown of an up to 
date cash settlement and schedule of works. She directed it to consider any 
reasonable costs for the period Miss C was out of her home.
RSA didnt respond. Miss H provided a timeline of events and a further detailed 
account of the impact of the delays on her.
Our Investigator looked again and increased the compensation further to £800 in light 
of the delays and impact described by Miss H  alongside directing it to either carry 
out repairs for remaining works or offer a cash settlement.
RSA disagreed, saying it agreed it had shortfalls in service and would agree to 
increase its compensation to £650 but no further. 
Our Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind, saying RSA had provided 
little to support its case, but it was apparent Miss Hs claim had suffered multiple 
delays and moves between accommodation. In light of her circumstances and family, 
the Investigator said the impact was very distressing and she had made RSA aware 
of this within her own emails. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In this case, there appear to be two main issues. 
The first, is the ongoing claim and a way forward. The matter seems far from 
resolved from what Ive seen, and as a result I dont think it would be practical for me 
to make a specific direction about the types of works that RSA should carry out. 
RSA has seemingly agreed to address the remaining issues by either cash settling 
these in line with the policy terms, or by carrying out necessary repairing itself in line 
with our Investigators view. And this is what Id expect RSA to do. So, these are the 
steps I will direct it to take.
In doing so, Id expect it to keep in mind its obligations to take this action promptly 
and fairly, and for any repairs to be effective and lasting. 
The second issue to consider concerns the handling of the claim. A claim of this 
nature will cause a degree of unavoidable distress and inconvenience for a 
policyholder. But here I have to consider the impact of RSAs delays and mistakes, 
and how these affected Miss H at an already challenging time.
RSA has agreed its handling after the repairs were completed wasnt in line with what 
itd expect. So, I dont need to make a finding on this point as it has accepted these 
faults. However, I would also note here RSA has provided little evidence to support 
its assurances the start of the claim proceeded without fault or delay, having failed to 
provide a business file as we would expect. RSA has now agreed a sum of £650 
compensation would be fair but not £800. 
So, Ive thought about the impact of the mistakes and delays RSA has caused. RSA 
agrees Miss H was proactive in trying to arrange accommodation, and that its own 
poor communication and lack of proactivity exacerbated the situation. Miss H has 
described at length the impact of RSAs inaction leading to last-minute decisions and 
arrangements which caused additional stress. 
Its clear to me Miss H was having to cope with the cumulative stress of ongoing 
mistakes within the claim alongside the frustration of the matter being prolonged 
longer than wouldve reasonably been required. And in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied a sum of £800 is a fair and reasonable compensatory payment to recognise 
the repeated mistakes and poor handling on RSAs part.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint. I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to do the following. 
Pay Miss H £800 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In line with the policy terms, RSA must promptly act to either carry out the remaining repairs or cash settle to the value the works would reasonably cost Miss H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman