DRN-4351510
Complaint
Mr F has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says the 
loan was unaffordable.
Background
L2G provided Mr F with a loan for £250 in December 2019. The loan had an APR of 
1,013.2% and a 18-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £1,028.52, 
which included interest, fees and charges of £778.52, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of £57.14. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G didnt act unfairly 
when providing this loan. Mr F disagreed with our adjudicator and so the case was passed 
forward for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My provisional decision of 29 August 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 29 August 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Mr Fs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Mr Fs complaint. 
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S could afford 
to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I thought that L2G have may argued that the relatively low payments meant that a light touch 
assessment was proportionate for Mr Fs loan. But I was mindful that it didnt agree with the 
declaration of income that Mr F had provided. Furthermore, the credit checks it carried out 
showed Mr F had a history of payday loans, at least one account in an arrangement to pay 
and other defaulted accounts. 
So I was persuaded by what Mr F had said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And I thought that while it was possible Mr Fs credit file reflected his choices 
rather than him struggling, I added that my experience of these types of cases suggest this 
was unlikely, I was satisfied that further checks would have been proportionate in this 
instance.
And I thought that if L2G had carried out further checks before providing these loans, it 
would have seen that Mr F was struggling to manage his finances. Indeed, most of his 
income was being taken up by his existing living costs and repayments to his existing 
commitments.  
   
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr F would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. 
And, in these circumstances, I thought that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr F was in no sort of position to make 
the payments to this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
As L2G provided Mr F with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. Mr F ended up paying interest, fees and 
charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided with. So it was my intention to issue a 
final decision finding that Mr F lost out because of what L2G did wrong and that L2G should 
put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F didnt provide anything further for me to consider.
L2G also confirmed receiving my provisional decision. It also confirmed that it agreed with 
my provisional decision and that it had nothing further to add. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Fs complaint in my provisional decision 
of 29 August 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to consider, 
Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Mr Fs complaint 
about and I remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what I think L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr F
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable for L2G to 
put things right for Mr F by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr F paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr F to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information about this loan from Mr Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give     
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 29 August 2023, Im 
upholding Mr Fs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman