DRN-4070646
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money she lost, which she believes was 
as the result of a scam. In making her complaint Mrs J is represented, but for ease Ill refer 
to Mrs J throughout this decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows.
Mrs J has said she was a regular user of a company who sold jewellery and offered bureau 
de change and pawn broking services. One of the directors of the company, who Ill refer to 
as A, contacted Mrs Js husband (Mr J) and told him about the opportunity to buy a 
precious stone. Mrs J and her husband were told that they could buy the stone for £20,000, 
but then sell it on for a profit within a few weeks, with them being told that another buyer was 
lined up.
Mrs J believed things to be genuine, as shed been in contact with A and his wife, who Ill 
refer to as B (who was also a director of the company), over a number of months when 
visiting and using their services. Mrs J agreed to go ahead with the purchase and, on 8 
October 2019, sent a payment for £20,000, from her Lloyds account to the account details 
provided  which were for an account in Bs name.
But Mrs J has said she never received the diamond, with A blaming the delays on Covid.  
Mrs J has said that following this A offered further investment opportunities, but she didnt 
take them up. She added that eventually A and B disappeared, the shop closed down and 
she was unable to contact them again. Mrs J has said she later found out many people had 
fallen for the same scam.
Believing shed been scammed Mrs J raised the matter with Lloyds. Lloyds looked into her 
complaint and issued its final response in November 2022, not upholding it. In summary it 
considered this was a buyer seller dispute between Mrs J and the seller.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mrs J then brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things. Our Investigator didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint, he said 
from the evidence hed seen B was the director of a company, that was actively trading at 
the time the transaction was made and who operated as pawnbrokers and who bought and 
sold valuable items. Our Investigator added that hed seen the company had filed for 
voluntary liquidation in March 2021 and Mrs J (and her husband) were deemed creditors. In 
summary he also concluded this was a buyer seller dispute.
Mrs J disagreed with our Investigators view. In summary Mrs J said she was not being 
treated as a creditor, as the money was not officially put through the sellers business. She 
added the list of creditors (within the liquidators report) was a list of people that had been 
defrauded. Mrs J maintained that she had fallen victim to a scam and that the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM code) applied to her case.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, Im not intending to uphold Mrs Js 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Lloyds should reimburse her. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs J, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But not all cases where individuals 
have lost money are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which Lloyds has signed up to and was in force at 
the time Mrs J made this payment. And outside of the Code, Lloyds also has wider 
obligations to fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). And in some circumstances, irrespective of the transfer channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push 
payments, for example it doesnt cover civil disputes. It says;
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods,
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our Investigator felt the payment Mrs J made formed part of a buyer seller 
dispute and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code. Mrs J disagrees. She feels that she 
has been scammed and what happened carried the hallmarks of a scam.
In order to conclude that the payment Mrs J made was part of a scam, Id need to be 
reasonably satisfied from the available evidence that the seller was not legitimate and had set out to defraud Mrs J. But I dont think, based on what I know, that I can safely conclude 
that. Its clear the agreement Mrs J entered into with the seller didnt go as Mrs J expected it 
to and I can understand entirely why she feels so strongly about what has happened. But 
having considered everything provided by both Mrs J and Lloyds, Im not persuaded, from 
what Ive seen, that there is enough evidence to safely say the seller set out with the 
intention to defraud Mrs J.
This means I dont think Lloyds is responsible for reimbursing Mrs J under the CRM Code or 
because of any wider obligation it has to protect Mrs J. I say that as, on balance, there are a 
number of factors, in the circumstances of this case, that arent typical of this being a scam;
- I can see that communications between Mrs J (and her husband) and the seller 
seemed to continue after the payment was made. With further opportunities for 
investment being offered by the seller (which were declined by Mrs J). Mrs Js 
husband also, around a year later, seems to enter into a loan agreement with the 
seller regarding the purchase of a precious stone and a watch. I dont think its typical 
for somebody who is scamming you to stay in contact after taking a victims money.
- Mrs J has said this was a personal transaction, as the payment wasnt made through 
the sellers company. Shes added that the list of creditors detailed within the 
voluntary liquidation documentation, was a list of people that had been defrauded. 
But I havent seen any evidence to fairly support this argument or to substantiate that 
there were other victims, as Mrs J claims. The £20,000 Mrs J paid formed part of an 
amount of money that was showing as being owed to her husband, on the liquidators 
report. Mr J requested to be removed from the list of creditors, as he said the 
payment was made in a personal capacity, rather than through the sellers business. 
But considering the amount Mrs J had paid, was included on the creditors list in the 
first place, it suggests to me that the seller recognised that this money was a debt 
that was owed. With this in mind, it doesnt seem to be the case that the seller didnt 
intend for Mrs J to potentially receive her money back (albeit here by means of the 
liquidation process).
- Its not apparent, from what Ive seen, that Mrs J was put under pressure to go ahead 
with the purchase. Which is often the case with scams such as this. Rather, Mrs J 
was interested in the proposal put to her, by somebody whose company Mrs J has 
said she used regularly without any problems.
- I think its relevant here, albeit that Mrs J sees this as a personal payment, that the 
seller was the director of a business, who operated as a retailer of jewellery. And the 
seller proactively engaged liquidators when their company seemingly fell into 
difficulty, having been a registered and trading company since 2008. This is not 
typically the case with fraudsters, who Im persuaded would, to avoid detection, be 
unlikely to engage in a legal process, such as instructing insolvency practitioners, 
when they have set out with the intent to defraud.
- I also note there doesnt appear to have been any indication that criminal charges 
have been brought against the seller (nor against any directors of the company that 
the seller ran).
- It is also not typical for a fraudster to be so easily traceable and for them to ask for 
funds to be transferred into accounts held in their genuine name, which Ive seen 
happened in this case. From the evidence Ive seen from the beneficiary bank, I cant 
fairly or reasonably say the beneficiary account demonstrates the characteristics that 
there was a clear intent to defraud.Im mindful Mrs J has said the payment wasnt put through the books of the business and 
that a legitimate business wouldnt operate in this way. But this in and of itself isnt enough 
for me to safely conclude that what has happened here was a scam. Questionable trading 
practices are not enough for me to be as sure as I would need to be that the seller acted 
dishonestly and deceitfully, by taking payments from Mrs J in circumstances where they had 
no intention of fulfilling their side of the bargain.
After taking everything into careful consideration. I cant safely say this meets the high legal 
threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a seller failing to 
honour an agreement by not providing the goods.
It follows that, on balance, I cant fairly or reasonably say that, based on what I know, the 
seller set out with the intent to defraud Mrs J. This being the case Im satisfied the CRM 
Code doesnt apply. And I cant ask Lloyds to refund the money Mrs J has lost.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs J. But overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained I cant fairly or reasonably ask Lloyds to refund the money Mrs J has lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint 
against Lloyds Bank PLC
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman