DRN-1491222
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
handled their home insurance claim.
What happened
In early July 2019, Mr and Mrs P notified a claim on their Lloyds home insurance. A leak 
from their toilet had caused damage in their bathroom, hallway and kitchen. Lloyds 
appointed a Personal Claims Consultant (PCC) to manage and validate the claim. It also 
arranged for a company to carry out decontamination, and for its approved contractors to 
complete the repairs. 
Mr and Mrs P say the PCC told them the contractors could replace their toilet and sink, 
which were connected as parts of a vanity unit, with separate items. But after struggling to 
get hold of the PCC, they were told by the contractors that they would only repair/replace the 
vanity unit. When they complained, Lloyds explained its liability was limited to restoring the 
damage to its pre-loss condition. And its contractors wouldnt carry out private work 
alongside claim repairs. That was why they couldnt replace the vanity unit with a separate 
toilet and sink. It admitted this should have been made clear to them earlier on. It gave them 
the option of take a cash settlement, but they chose to keep using the contractors. It also 
paid them £600 compensation, plus £20 for their call costs, and appointed a new PCC.
After ordering (and waiting for) a new vanity unit, the contractors then tried to use old parts 
to repair the damaged unit. Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with this and with the general 
standard of the works  citing other examples where work had been done poorly. For 
example, they reported that the decorator hadnt plastered or sanded their kitchen wall  and 
had painted over wallpaper in one place. They were also unhappy with the customer service 
theyd received, saying the new PCC didnt know what was going on and that the customer 
care department had been rude and hung up on them. 
Lloyds agreed that works hadnt been completed to the expected standard. It ordered a new 
vanity unit and booked a plaster and decorator to fix the kitchen wall. It also apologised for 
how a call had been handled by the customer care department. It paid a further £500 
compensation. 
Mr and Mr P said there were still outstanding issues with the works, including several issues 
with the bathroom repairs  and not all their points had been addressed. This included their 
concerns about the new PCC, who had gone on annual leave  meaning another PCC was 
covering the claim. Lloyds explained that the PCC had tried to call before going on leave, but 
the line had cut off. And that the cover PCC had called to find out their perspective of the 
situation. Regarding the works, it said it had fitted the re-ordered vanity unit as soon as the 
contractors had been available, and that the PCC would attend to look at the outstanding 
work issues. Due to the length of the claim, Mr and Mrs P had renewed their cover with 
Lloyds. So it agreed to waive the usual cancellation fees if they wanted to change insurer. It 
also paid a further £100 compensation.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr and Mrs P went back to Lloyds. It issued another 
response, this time offering £25 compensation. It said this was because some emails theyd 
sent had been missed. It explained that, if they were still unhappy with how it had addressed 
their points, they could refer the matter to our service  which they did. 
Our investigator agreed that the claim had been handled poorly. But he was satisfied that 
Lloyds had already paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for this. Mr and 
Mrs P didnt agree. They said that, if theyd known how the claim would be handled, they 
would have taken a cash settlement (thereby mostly avoiding the issues theyve complained 
about). They also pointed out that individual payments had been made for specific issues  
and they didnt think all the issues warranting compensation had been adequately 
addressed. Either for the separate issues or as a whole, they said the compensation wasnt 
enough. The case has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank Mr and Mrs P for their comprehensive submissions about this complaint. 
Although Ive reviewed all the information they and Lloyds have provided, I wont be 
responding in the same level of detail. If I dont mention a particular point or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because I havent seen or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to 
reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr and Mrs P dont take this as a discourtesy; its 
just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
The claim itself was completed by November 2019. Lloyds admits there were problems with 
how it was handled  which its already paid around £1,250 (£1,225 compensation plus £20 
call costs) for. So, the key issue Ive considered is  has Lloyds paid enough compensation 
to reflect the impact its errors had on Mr and Mrs P? Ive decided that it has. Ill explain why. 
I want to make it clear that, when reaching my decision, Ive looked at the compensation and 
impact holistically. I appreciate that Lloyds paid particular amounts for particular points. But 
the compensation was all for interconnected issues regarding distress and inconvenience 
suffered by Mr and Mrs P due to the handling of the claim. And theyve brought these issues 
to our service together. So, Im satisfied its appropriate to think about whether the overall 
level of compensation is adequate for the overall impact of any errors. 
Mr and Mrs Ps photographs and correspondence, along with the claim records, show 
repeated instances where the works were done poorly or incorrectly  such as the vanity unit 
which had to be repeatedly ordered. These issues and the remedial work they required 
delayed the claim. I can see Mr and Mrs P had to put a lot of time and effort into chasing up 
these issues. They were also caused disappointment by the apparent change in position 
over replacing the vanity unit. The length of the claim also impacted their use and enjoyment 
of their home  and theyve reported that they couldnt change insurers as a result. Its clear 
all of this caused them considerable upset and frustration. 
Mr and Mrs P have also reported various instances of what Id term poor customer service. 
These include being hung up on, communication issues with their PCCs, and an instance 
involving a worker at their home who they say was rude to them. Whilst Im conscious that 
there can be an element of subjectivity to whether someones behaviour is rude, I can see 
that Lloyds has admitted to some of these errors  apologising and offering compensation. 
And Mr and Mrs P have given what I consider to be credible accounts of what happened. So, 
on balance, I accept that the customer service was poor  and that this added to Mr and 
Mrs Ps distress and inconvenience. Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds has fairly compensated Mr and Mrs P for the impact of its 
errors. Waiving the usual cancellation fee prevents their insurance arrangements from being 
disadvantaged by the claim delays. And whilst the situation has clearly been very upsetting 
for them, I consider this to be fairly reflected in the level of compensation theyve been paid. 
Im mindful that, even if theyd taken a cash settlement or if Lloyds had handled the claim 
better, it would always have taken some time and trouble to get the works done. And 
although Mr and Mrs P dont agree with how (or indeed whether) Lloyds addressed all their 
points, I can see it made concerted efforts to provide detailed responses and to compensate 
them when new or missed issues came to light. Ultimately, Lloyds has now paid a 
substantial amount of compensation. So, Im not persuaded that more is due.
I realise this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs P. But, for the reasons given above, Im not 
awarding more compensation or directing Lloyds to take further action to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman