DRN-2575338
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) 
with his mortgage.
What happened
Mr G took out a mortgage in October 1996. Its unclear how or when he was sold PPI but 
Bank of Scotland has provided information showing that he started to pay for the policy a few 
months later in February 1997.  
The policy protected Mr Gs mortgage monthly repayments in the event of accident, sickness 
and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold his mis-selling complaint. Mr G didnt agree with this view. 
Mr G says he was sold this policy under duress and told that without taking the policy he 
may not be given the mortgage and that his application would be looked upon more 
favourably with PPI. Mr G also told us he wouldnt have needed PPI as he couldve relied on 
other means to cover his mortgage payments.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Generally Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been presented. Neither Bank of Scotland nor Mr G could 
provide any signed paperwork that shows how the PPI was sold. But this isnt surprising 
given how long ago this sale happened. The fact that Bank of Scotland cant now produce 
the sale documents isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
Mr G recalled arranging the PPI in a meeting  and that may well be how the policy was sold 
to him. But I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr G took out PPI. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect him to recall in detail precisely what was said at the time. So what 
Mr G says now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint.
I must look at everything Ive seen and been told and decide what I think is most likely. 
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Bank of Scotland 
didnt make it clear that it was open to Mr G not to choose PPI if he didnt want to have it. His 
mortgage was a major financial commitment, and his home wouldve been at risk if his 
mortgage payments werent kept up to date. It looks to me as if Mr G couldve found PPI 
useful if hed needed to claim. So I can see why he mightve felt that having PPI was 
worthwhile when he arranged the mortgage.  
And it looks like his mortgage was set up well before the PPI  Mr G didnt start paying for 
PPI until after his mortgage had already been up and running for around three months. So 
I think its likely at the time that Mr G wouldve understood that getting his mortgage didnt 
depend on him having PPI. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr G decided he wanted to protect his home by 
having the benefits the policy offered and it was added on to the mortgage account when he 
chose to buy the PPI. Although I can completely understand if he has forgotten this now. 
To be as fair as possible to Mr G, Bank of Scotland has looked at this complaint on the basis 
that it advised him to buy the PPI. If a financial business makes a recommendation about 
PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable as well 
as giving important policy information in a clear way. 
I dont see any reason why a PPI recommendation for Mr G wouldnt have been suitable 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Gs circumstances at the time. 
Mr G was eligible for the policy. 
Mr G told us he was entitled to at least 12 months sick pay. It would be quite unusual for 
someone to be guaranteed to receive full sick pay for a whole year or more. Mr G hasnt sent 
us anything to show hes right about this. And in 1999, when he had time off work sick, it 
appears that Mr Gs employer didnt pay enough to replace the full amount of income Mr G 
lost out on because he wasnt working. So it looks like his contractual sick pay wasnt quite 
as much as Mr G thought it would be.
PPI couldve covered him for accident or sickness for up to 12 months each time he made a 
successful claim. This couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult 
time if Mr G needed to claim as he mightve had extra costs if he was ill or disabled.  
As well as this, the policy also paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event Mr G lost 
his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Repeat claims were possible providing Mr G with long term protection whilst he was paying 
for his home. 
Ive taken into account that Mr G mentioned he had a significant amount of money in savings 
plus stocks and shares that he could have sold. 
But it looks like Mr G preferred not to spend savings since he took out this mortgage rather 
than draw on money he had invested to reduce the amount of his borrowing and keep down 
the overall cost of his mortgage.  
And having PPI meant Mr G could also keep savings and investments secure in the long 
term as he wouldnt have been forced to use this money or cash in investments to pay the 
mortgage. I think that having cover in place so he couldve continued to make his monthly 
mortgage repayments without having to sell investments wouldve provided a useful extra 
benefit to Mr G if he couldnt work.
So, looking at his circumstances at the time, I think the PPI couldve provided Mr G with a 
useful benefit and it was suitable for him. Its possible some of the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as if that 
wouldve affected Mr G. 
So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve 
made any difference to Mr Gs decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know how the PPI cost was explained. But Mr G hasnt complained about the policy 
being unaffordable for him when he signed up for it. Mr G paid for this policy each month. So 
he couldve cancelled it at any time without incurring any extra cost if his circumstances 
changed and he didnt want to continue paying for it. 
Taking everything into account I think Mr G probably still wouldve decided to buy the policy 
even if hed been better informed as it couldve provided useful protection in his particular 
situation. I dont think its likely that having clearer information wouldve put him off buying it. 
Ive taken into account what Mr G has told us about what happened when he tried to claim 
under the policy. But that doesnt mean that PPI must have been mis-sold when he took it 
out and it isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint. If Mr G wants to complain separately 
about this failed claim then in the first instance he will need to raise his concerns with Bank 
of Scotland and/or the insurer. He can contact this service if he is uncertain about how to do 
this.  
Looked at overall, I dont find theres enough information for me to say that Mr G has lost out 
as a result of anything Bank of Scotland did wrong. So this means it doesnt need to do 
anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman