DRN-3171470
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the service he received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited in 
relation to his Small Self Administered Scheme (SSAS).  
What happened
Ive considered everything that has been submitted by the parties. However, Ill focus in this 
decision on what I consider the most relevant points. 
Mr J is the sole trustee of a SSAS. He is generally unhappy with Avivas services and says 
he has had issues with them over several years. 
Mr J complained to Aviva in February 2018 after he couldnt pass security on a phone call 
due to Aviva saying they held no correspondence address for him on file. Mr J was frustrated 
as during a previous complaint to the Pension Ombudsman in 2015, AXA -who at the time 
administered the SSAS-, had said they had an address on file. Mr J wanted to reopen his old 
complaint.
He requested current fund values and transfer values for two pension policies and said he 
was planning to surrender all his pension policies in the SSAS. He asked Aviva to waive any 
early exit penalties as he had lost all confidence in them and so was forced to give up these 
policies.
He also wanted copies of all call recordings since 2010 as he was concerned third parties 
pretending to be him obtained information about his pension scheme which shouldnt have 
been disclosed.
Aviva responded to his complaint in April 2018. They said they wouldnt revisit his old 
complaint and also couldnt wave the early exit charges. With regards to Mr Js fraud 
concerns, they said their records showed that they had only received telephone contact from 
himself since 2010 and not anyone else. They informed him about the process of a Subject 
Data Request. Aviva admitted that the call handler had given Mr J incorrect information in 
the call in February. They did hold an address for him on file, but it wasnt held on the 
system they used for security checks which was a mistake. They apologised and offered him 
£150 in compensation for the inconvenience this caused.
In November 2018, Mr J sent Aviva the surrender form for one of his policies together with 
the original trust deed documents. He wanted the proceeds to be paid to the SSAS bank 
account. The trust deeds werent the most recent ones and based on the information Aviva 
held, they considered there were other trustees and asked for signatures from them and 
further documents.
In July 2019, Mr J complained again. He said his original complaint from February 2018 had 
not been considered. He was also unhappy that Aviva put obstacles in his way when he 
simply wanted to surrender his pension policy. When he was forwarded a copy of Avivas 
complaint response from April 2018, Mr J said he had been in hospital abroad after a heart 
attack and was still there. He said he had not received the letter and he said he had made it 
clear he only wanted to be contacted by email as he was in hospital abroad. He was also 
unhappy that Aviva had asked for another trustees signature who had passed away in 2015.
In August 2019, Aviva asked Mr J for identification documents which could be a copy of his 
passport and a utility bill confirming his address. Mr J sent over a passport copy but said he 
couldnt provide a utility bill as he hadnt lived in the UK since 2006 and he was in a hospital 
abroad.
Mr J subsequently provided an affidavit from his doctor abroad which it seems was 
suggested to him as an alternative. However, Aviva didnt accept this as there were 
discrepancies with the signatures. Mr J then provided another letter from the doctor, 
however again this was refused. 
Mr J says he had to travel back to the UK in December 2019 to get a certified copy of his 
passport from a UK solicitor. He said he unnecessarily incurred additional costs which he 
wanted Aviva to cover.
Mr Js policy was disinvested in February 2020. Aviva acknowledged that there had been 
delays and paid Mr B the surrender value as at 14 November 2018 (the date Aviva had 
received the surrender forms) plus interest.
One of our investigators considered Mr Js complaint. He agreed that there had been delays 
in the surrender of Mr J pension policy. However, he didnt think Aviva was responsible for 
all of these delays. He said as Mr J was the scheme trustee and administrator he should 
have sent Aviva the most up to date trust deeds. He also didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Aviva to ask for identification documents and that certain additional costs and effort providing 
these when abroad were not always avoidable.
Aviva had backdated the surrender value to November 2018 when the surrender application 
was received and paid interest on it to make up for late payment. The investigator explained 
that the interest paid was below the rate of 8% simple per year which is what this service 
would usually recommend if a customer had been deprived of the use of their funds. 
However, the investigator didnt think Aviva was responsible for all the delays since 
November 2018. He said the application could not have been processed without any identity 
documents which were only received in form of a passport copy in August 2019. But he 
didnt see what other identification Aviva had received between then and February 2020. So 
he recommended that Aviva should recalculate the interest from August 2019 to February 
2020 at a rate of 8% simple per year and pay this to Mr J after deducting the interest he had 
already received.
The investigator also said there was no evidence to show Aviva had made it clear to Mr J 
what was required from the doctor letter he initially was allowed to provide as additional 
proof of identity. So they should cover the costs that he incurred for the two letters that 
turned out to be insufficient.
However, he didnt think Aviva should pay for any costs which Mr J incurred by flying to the 
UK and getting a certified passport copy from a UK solicitor. Emails from the time showed Mr 
J was planning to fly to the UK in any event between Christmas and New Year.
Aviva accepted the investigators recommendation, however Mr J didnt. He thought delays 
had started in February 2018 and aspects of Avivas conduct were ignored which should 
affect the amounts being awarded to him. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint 
was passed to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr J is unhappy with Avivas service and has been for many years and he 
has added complaint points along the way as well as wanting to revisit issues that were 
considered by the Pensions Ombudsman in 2015. As I said above, Ill focus in this decision 
what I consider to be the key material issues.
I want to be clear that this service will not revisit any complaint which was already 
considered years ago by an ombudsman. In any event, any such request would have to be 
directed to the Pension Ombudsman who issued Mr Js decision.
I understand Mr J wanted exit penalties to be waived in 2018 because he was unhappy with 
Avivas service overall over the years. Mr Js complaint in 2015 was rejected, so I cant see 
any reason why exit penalties should be waived.
Aviva apologised for the wrong information they gave Mr J in February 2018 with regards to 
his address and paid him £150. I think this is a reasonable amount. I understand Mr J is 
unhappy that this compensation (and others) were paid by cheque which he couldnt use as 
he had no personal UK bank account. However, whilst I appreciate this would have been 
frustrating, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so I cant consider this issue.
Aviva said they have no records of anyone other than Mr J contacting them about his policy. 
I havent seen any evidence to the contrary. Mr J did receive transcripts for the calls he had 
with Aviva and has asked for call recordings which Aviva said they will send him. Ive seen 
that Mr J has had technical problems opening some of the files Aviva has sent him. 
However, these seem to be technical issues at Mr Js end as passwords provided to this 
service do work. Aviva is trying to help Mr J in this regard to the best of their abilities as far 
as I can see. There is nothing else this service can do to help further here.
I will now focus on the delays of Mr Js policy surrender which I consider the main part of this 
complaint. I cant see that any actual surrender requests were made by Mr J before 
November 2018, so I dont think there were unreasonable delays before this. However, its 
not in dispute that the surrender process took from November 2018 to February 2020 which 
is a significant time period.
Mr J didnt provide the latest trust documents with his application which lead to further 
questions and information requests from Aviva, including requests for a signature from a 
trustee who had died several years previously. Given that Mr J was the scheme 
administrator and the only trustee I think he could have avoided some of the delays and 
unnecessary information request by sending up to date documents. Mr J also was 
unexpectedly in hospital abroad for an extended period of time, so communications would 
have been more difficult. Again, I dont think it would be fair to hold Aviva solely responsible 
for delays this caused.
Aviva asked for identity documents and I think they were entitled to do this. Mr J had raised 
fraud concerns and he was abroad. I think it was understandable they wanted to be careful.
In the circumstances, asking for further proof in form of a utility bill with a current address in 
addition to an emailed passport copy was reasonable I think. I appreciate Mr J couldnt 
provide a utility bill and it was more difficult for him to provide acceptable evidence to prove 
his identity. However, some additional inconvenience and/or cost in this regard has to be 
accepted I think when dealing with matters from abroad.Having said that, Im not satisfied from the evidence provided that Aviva made their 
requirements particularly clear to Mr J from the outset. The first request from Aviva for 
identity documents I can see was in August 2019. At some point Aviva seemed to have told 
Mr J that he could provide a letter from his doctor abroad, but I cant see that they gave him 
clear instructions on what exactly was required. 
Aviva is entitled to decide what information they require and what they accept and what they 
dont, but they needed to give Mr J clear instructions on what they needed and I cant see 
they did this. 
Once the doctors letters werent accepted, Aviva did provide Mr J with a list of solicitors 
abroad that could certify his passport. Mr J says he was told he needed to travel to the UK to 
get his passport certified by a notary and he incurred additional expenses. However, I think 
the evidence shows that alternative options to using the services of a UK solicitor were 
offered by Aviva. Emails show that Mr J had planned to travel to the UK between Christmas 
and New Year anyway. And on balance I think he might have seen it as an easier option to 
sort out the paperwork in the UK whilst he was there rather than deal with a foreign solicitor 
which he had to travel to see. So I dont think Aviva should compensate Mr J for any costs 
associated with his travel to the UK.
Given the disappointingly incomplete file provided by Aviva, its impossible to pinpoint 
exactly which of the delays were ones that could have been avoided by Aviva. When Aviva 
paid Mr J the surrender value, they used the value which was available in November 2018 
when Mr J made his original request which is fair in any event as that is the value he would 
have received if no delays had occurred.
I think Avivas original approach of applying late interest for the whole time, i.e. from 14 
November 2018 until 25 February 2020 essentially compensated for all the delays. However, 
they used a lower interest rate than this service tends to use when customers are deprived 
of their funds. The investigator concluded that interest should be calculated at the higher rate 
of 8% simple per year, however only from 22 August 2019 which is when Aviva received an 
identity document from Mr J without which the surrender couldnt have proceeded. 
I think this is a reasonable approach in the circumstances. As set out above I dont think it 
would be fair to hold Aviva responsible for all delays in this case. This isnt to say Aviva 
didnt cause any delays before August or all the delays after August were down to Aviva. 
However, based on the information Ive seen I think Aviva could have acted more quickly 
and provided Mr J with better communications after he provided his passport copy and told 
them he couldnt provide a utility bill. 
I agree with the investigator that Aviva should cover the costs of the doctors letters Mr J 
provided when he was abroad. As explained above I cant see Aviva explained to Mr J what 
exactly they required or why the documents were refused. I dont think this gave Mr J a 
reasonable chance to make sure the documents he was paid for were sufficient.
Im satisfied the above fairly compensates Mr J for the delays he experienced and the 
additional costs for the letters he paid for abroad. However, based on the evidence I have 
seen I think the lack of clear communication over a period of several months would have 
also caused him distress and inconvenience. Like I said above, having to meet certain 
requirements from abroad can add more inconvenience and cost. So the fact he got a 
certified copy of his passport in the UK for example and had to pay for it was reasonable I 
think. But overall and based on the evidence I have been provided with, Im not convinced 
that Aviva kept Mr J informed about what was happening and why his request was taking so 
long and what exactly was required from him at what stage. This would have been 
frustrating, and I can see Mr J made several phone calls to try and see where things stood without much success. 
So I think Aviva should pay Mr J an additional £250 for the inconvenience and frustration 
these delays and the lack of efficient communication caused him.
Putting things right
Aviva should:
Calculate interest at the rate of 8% simple per year for the period between 22 August 
2019 until 25 February 2020 on the surrender value Mr J received. Deduct the 
interest they already have paid Mr J from this amount and pay him the difference.
I note that Mr J seems to think 8% interest will be paid until he receives this 
compensation. However, this isnt correct. He received the surrender value already 
on 25 February 2020 and any interest is to compensate him for the time he didnt 
have his surrender value, not any additional interest.
Pay Mr J £106.23 for the doctors letters plus 8% simple interest per year on this 
amount from the date he paid this on 10 November 2019 until the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr J £250 for the distress and inconvenience the delays caused him.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Js pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr J hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
If Aviva plans on paying Mr J the compensation directly, they should agree with him how 
best he can receive this money as I believe he still has no UK bank account.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and ask Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr J the 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman