DRN-2419612
The complaint
Mr T complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc cancelled his home insurance policy 
after a previous escape of water had been incorrectly reported. Hes concerned about the 
impact it will have when applying for future insurance cover.
What happened
Mr T applied for home insurance through a price comparison website. He obtained a policy 
from RSA. But the insurer cancelled his home insurance as hed marked a previous claim 
incorrectly as flooding rather than an escape of water. Itd been a genuine mistake and he 
hadnt received the letter from RSA saying it wouldnt insure him as a result. He didnt realise 
whatd happened until he opened a second letter some months later.
Mr T is worried about applying for other insurance and having to declare that his policy was 
avoided. So hed like RSA to remove the report from his record as it was caused by a 
misunderstanding. 
RSA said itd taken the correct decision to void the policy back to the start date. If itd known 
the pre-inception claim had been for an escape of water rather than a flood RSA wouldnt 
have been able to provide insurance to Mr T. 
RSA accepted it was a genuine mistake and not a deliberate attempt to mislead it. And itd 
provided a full refund of the policy premium. Because thered been a delay in issuing the 
refund RSA arranged a compensation payment of £100 to Mr T. But it said Mr T would need 
to disclose the cancellation of its policy to any future insurer. 
Mr T wasnt satisfied with RSAs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She explained the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) says its the duty of the consumer to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation to the insurer if it asks a question about facts that are 
relevant to the proposed risk its covering. And she discussed the remedies available to an 
insurer when misrepresentation had taken place.
Our investigator didnt think RSA had acted unfairly in avoiding the policy based on the 
information it had received. She appreciated Mr T had been truthful and honest in disclosing 
the previous claim as far as he was aware. But RSA had voided the policy in line with CIDRA 
and its obligated to record that on the claims and underwriting exchange. So she couldnt 
say its approach had been unreasonable. 
Mr T didnt agree. He feels like hes being branded a criminal. He didnt get the letter asking 
to clarify the information hed provided. And hed referred to the claim incident as a flood on 
numerous occasions when discussing it with his previous insurer without being corrected. So 
hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know how strongly Mr T feels about this matter. And I can understand his concerns about it 
affecting the cost of insurance from other providers. But, Im afraid, I dont think RSA acted 
unfairly by voiding his policy. Ill explain why.
When a consumer buys or renews an insurance policy, theyll be asked questions about their 
circumstances and what they want to insure. The insurer looks at this information to weigh 
up the risk of offering insurance to the consumer. And it relies on the information being 
accurate. So if a misrepresentation takes place there are various remedies it might take.
In order to treat Mr Ts policy as though it never existed (voided), RSA has to show that the 
provisions of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
have been met. CIDRA requires consumers, like Mr T, to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy).
For a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA, RSA has to show that it asked clear 
questions to which Mr T gave inaccurate answers. RSA must also show that if Mr T had 
given the correct answers, it wouldve acted differently  by not offering the policy at all, or 
by doing so on different terms.
Mr T applied for the insurance policy through an online comparison site in October 2019. 
RSA has provided details of the questions asked to Mr T and the answers he gave. As part 
of the application Mr T was asked for details of any home claims made in the previous three 
years. He entered details of a flood claim from March 2018 for an amount of £20000. 
Mr T says that was how hed referred to the damage suffered in the claim when hed spoken 
to his previous insurer. But when RSA checked the claims and underwriting exchange (CUE) 
it found the claim had been recorded as an escape of water. So it felt itd received an 
inaccurate answer to a clear question. As a result RSA wrote to Mr T asking for further 
information. The letter said Mr T had a duty to disclose all material facts to the insurer. And if 
any facts were undisclosed it could mean the policy might be underwritten incorrectly and 
could be declared void.
When RSA didnt receive a response it wrote to Mr T again in November 2019 to inform him 
that the decision had been made to avoid the policy from its inception date in October 2019. 
Mr T says he didnt receive the first letter, although it appears to have been sent to the 
correct address. And he accepts he misplaced the second letter before reading it some 
months later. 
RSA has provided details of the underwriting criteria it uses when considering previous high 
value claims. RSA says it would normally decline any application when the consumer enters 
a previous claim above a certain level unless it relates to flooding or subsidence. And the 
application only progressed because Mr T incorrectly recorded the claim as a flood. So I 
think RSA were entitled to avoid the policy (as if it had never taken place) in line with CIDRA 
and return the premiums to Mr T. It considered Mr Ts answers to be incorrect. And it 
wouldnt have offered the policy at all if itd had the correct information.
I know Mr T feels RSA shouldve tried to contact him in other ways as well. But RSA has 
explained its standard practise to send a letter in such circumstances. And the terms and 
conditions confirm RSA will contact customers in writing about the policy. So I cant say RSA 
acted unreasonably by trying to get in touch with Mr T in this manner.RSA has accepted it didnt refund Mr Ts premiums when it should have. And its agreed to 
pay Mr T £100 compensation for the delay. It only realised they hadnt been repaid after 
Mr T got in touch after he opened the second letter. But RSAs failure to repay the premium 
immediately didnt have any bearing on the decision to avoid the policy due to a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
I do understand how upsetting this has been for Mr T. And I can understand his concerns 
about having to declare the avoided policy when applying for other insurance products. I can 
see our investigator has provided details of the circumstances to confirm that RSA agreed 
thered been a genuine error and there wasnt any deliberate attempt to mislead the insurer. 
And I hope he will be able to discuss things with future insurers and explain what happened.
But based on everything Ive seen I cant say RSA acted unfairly or unreasonably in avoiding 
Mr Ts home insurance policy. Itd received incorrect information about Mr Ts previous 
claim. And its explained it wouldnt have offered the policy if itd been aware of the correct 
details. So RSA has a responsibility to report whats happened to the claims and 
underwriting exchange.  
I know this isnt the outcome Mr T was hoping for. But I havent found that RSA made any 
error in avoiding Mr Ts policy. I think RSA acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances 
and I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman