DRN-2667673
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car supplied by Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) under a hire 
purchase agreement was not of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In October 2019 Mr S entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with SMF. The 
agreement was for a car which had been first registered in July 2016. Its cash price was 
£14,385 and its odometer reading around 30,000 miles.
Within a few months the car developed a fault  specifically, there was an oil leak from the 
timing chain cover. This was repaired by the dealership at no cost to Mr S. 
In August 2020 the car broke down again. By that point Mr S had driven around 5,500 miles 
in it. A vehicle health check diagnosed a blocked diesel particulate filter and faulty turbo-
charger. Subsequently, an independent inspection was commissioned to identify more 
precisely the cause of the problem. The engineer who carried out that inspection concluded 
that the turbo charger rotors showed excessive free play, indicating the inner seals had 
failed, along with excessive wear to the inner spindle and rotors. This in turn resulted in 
engine oil being drawn into the engine and exhaust system. 
The engineer concluded that the damage was the result of wear and tear but was unable to 
comment on whether the wear was present at the time of delivery to Mr S. 
SMF said that this did not show that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied to Mr S. It noted in its response to Mr Ss complaint that the dealership was in any 
event arranging repairs at no cost to Mr S. 
Mr S referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He thought that SMF had treated Mr S fairly. There was not sufficient evidence 
for him to say that the fault at been present or developing at the time Mr S took the car in 
October 2019. 
Mr S did not accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. He said that his ability to work had been affected when he was without a car and that it 
was still faulty, despite repairs.   
What Ive decided  and whys 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator noted, the hire purchase agreement was to be read as including a term 
that the car would be of satisfactory quality  meaning the quality a reasonable person would 
expect in the circumstances. Those circumstances in this case include the cars price, age 
and mileage.
In a court, a person who makes an allegation must generally prove it. So, if a customer says 
that goods are not satisfactory, they should provide evidence of that. Under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015, however, there is an assumption that goods that are not of satisfactory 
quality within six months of delivery were not of satisfactory quality at delivery. This service 
is not bound by the same rules of evidence as a court would be, but I must take the law into 
account in deciding whats fair and reasonable. 
The independent engineer who inspected the car in September 2020 was unable to say 
whether the fault with the turbo charger had been present at delivery. In part, that was 
because he did not have any information about the delivery date or the cars mileage. It is 
unclear why he was not provided with that information and did not ask for it. I cannot 
however assume that it would have made a difference to his conclusions. 
Overall, however, I do not believe that there is enough evidence here that I can safely say 
that the car had this particular fault in October 2019. 
Mr S has provided evidence to show that a turbo-charger can usually be expected to last as 
long as the car  150,000 miles or more. I accept thats the case, although that does not 
mean it will always be so. More importantly, the fact that Mr Ss turbo-charger has failed 
sooner than most does not, of itself, mean it was faulty when he took delivery of the car. 
I can understand that Mr S is frustrated that repairs do not appear to have resolved the 
problem and that his earnings have suffered when he has been without a car. I do not 
believe however that this is the result of anything that SMF has done wrong, and so I cannot 
properly require it to do anything to resolve these issues. I would however remind it of its 
obligations to Mr S if he is having difficulties making payments.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
to do anything more to resolve Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
4 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman