DRN-3076502
Complaint
Mr H has complained that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr H bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Hitachi, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr H, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Mr H also used a refinance loan to pay off his loan with Hitachi, so our 
adjudicator added that the losses incurred because of the refinance loan should also be 
considered. 
Hitachi initially didnt agree with the adjudicators view of the complaint but later made an 
offer to settle the complaint. However, it didnt work out redress in line with our established 
approach to these types of cases. Our adjudicator wrote to Hitachi to explain how to 
correctly work out a compensation offer. Hitachi hasnt responded, so the case was passed 
to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, and as Hitachi appears to now accept, I uphold this case. In brief, that is 
because the evidence supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr H 
was not given clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-
funding and would equate to an additional cost for him.
So, I think that Hitachi didnt treat Mr H fairly and he lost out because of what Hitachi did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Hitachi needs to do to put things right for Mr H
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint for Hitachi to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr H from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr H is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Hitachi needs to reimburse Mr H accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr H by way of explanation.  
As our adjudicator explained, Mr H has settled the loan by refinancing, and he has supplied 
evidence of the refinance to Hitachi. I understand Hitachi has offered to compensate this 
customer and our adjudicator has explained, in detail, how Hitachi should work out redress 
in this case. To confirm our approach, Hitachi should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr H paid each month with the Hitachi loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr H paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr H first 
contacted Hitachi that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Hitachi should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman