The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complai n that Barcl ays Bank UK was sendin g emails about their account to a 
family memb er with a similar name. And when they told Barclays abo ut this, it didn t take 
their complaint seriously.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B said emails for their account, addressed to Mrs B, had been sent to a family 
member with a very similar name. Mr and Mrs B were concerned that if emails were being 
sent to this family member, they might also be sent to anyone else with a similar name.
Mr B complained to Barclays. It wrote back and denied sending an email to his family 
member. It said that persons email address wa snt linked to his profile with the bank, and it 
hadn t emailed hi m for a couple of weeks. Barclays overlooked that this was a joint accou nt.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with this reply, and sent Barclays a copy of the email that their 
family member had received on 4 March. Barclays didnt reply, it later said it had no record 
of receiving this. Then on 27 March their family member got another email for Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. They said Barclays hadnt investigated the 
probl em, and it hadnt given any weight to their loyal custo m over many years.
Barclays thought the problem had started with Barclaycard, whose system is linked to its 
own. It said this family member s email addre ss had been added to Mrs Bs details with 
Barclayca rd. It didn t know how that had happened. But it had deleted the wrong email 
addre ss from Mrs Bs profile with it, and confirmed that Barclaycard had done the same.
Our investigato r thought this complaint should be upheld. She said Barclays hadnt been 
able to full y explain how thi s email addre ss had come to be linked to Mrs Bs details, and 
had suggested Mrs B ma y have added this to her details with Barclaycard. Mr and Mrs B 
had told u s they hadnt given this email address to Barclays or Barclaycard at any point. Our 
investigator asked Barclays for evidence, and it sent a screenshot to confirm that the email 
address was added to Mrs Bs account on 5 February 2020, and another to confirm that, on 
the same date, the  customer changed SMS or email alert preferences .
Our investigato r noted this didnt fit with how Mr and Mrs B said they used online banking, so 
she couldnt explai n exactly how the email address was adde d onto Barclaycards systems.  
But, on balance, she tho ught it was more likely the changes werent made by Barclays or 
Barclayca rd. Our investigator also noted that the dates didnt quite match, but there didnt 
seem to be a way to be sure what had happene d. The email addre sses may have been 
changed more than once.
But our investig ator said we did know what had gone wrong at Barclays. Its system had  
been updated with the email address from Barclayca rd. This had now been rectifi ed, and
DRN-2312058Barclays had offered to pay £50 in compensation. Our investigator thought that was a fair
offer in this case.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. Mrs B said she couldnt agree to the offer that Barclays had
suggested, because its failure to do a proper investigation in the first place was the reason
why shed had to spend so much time and effort on this. She wanted an ombudsman to
consider her complaint, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I know that we cant be sure exactly how the wrong email address came to be linked 
with Mrs Bs card account. But, like our investigator, I think its most likely that 
Barclaycard didnt make the original mistake here.
I would also note that the emails that were sent to Mrs B were, as our investigator 
said, marketing emails. Barclays doesnt send sensitive personal or account details 
out by email. So I think the impact of the mistake was lessened, because of this.
But I still think this wouldve been worrying for Mr and Mrs B. And, once Mr and Mrs 
B had pointed out this mistake to Barclays, it shouldve taken steps to put this right. It 
didnt do so until this case came to us.
Barclays offer of £50 was made because it had realised it did receive Mr Bs letter at 
the end of March, but it hadnt done anything about it, because it hadnt linked it to 
this complaint. Thats unfortunate, particularly as Mr B had taken the trouble to 
include the complaint reference as well as his account number and sort code.
Ive considered this case carefully, and I dont think that the offer Barclays has made 
is enough to make up for everything thats gone wrong in this case. As Mr and Mrs B 
have said, Barclays didnt just overlook their reply to the complaint. It also failed to 
address this complaint when it was first made, because it only checked Mr Bs 
details, not Mrs Bs details, although this is a joint account.
Mr and Mrs B have said that these failures led to them having to complain to our 
service. I dont think they should have to do that in order for Barclays to properly 
address their complaint and resolve the issue. So I think Barclays should pay Mr and 
Mrs B £100 in compensation.
I dont think Barclays has paid the amount of £50 it has offered for this complaint, but 
if it has, Ill allow it to offset that against my award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Barclays agreed to pay what Id suggested. Mr and Mrs B said they were satisfied, because 
Id recognised that things went wrong at the start of this complaint as well as when Mr B 
replied to Barclays letter. And thats why theyd had to complain to us. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr and Mrs B £100 in 
compensation. If it has already paid the amount of £50 it offered for this complaint, it can 
offset that against this award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman