DRN-3338427
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service hes received from Sainsburys Bank plc, trading as 
Sainsburys Finance, surrounding his not being able to make online payments to his 
account.
What happened
Mr B contacted Sainsburys because he was unbale to make a payment to his Sainsburys 
credit account online. Sainsburys looked into the issue, apologised to Mr B for the 
inconvenience and made a payment of £100 to Mr B for his trouble.
A few months later, Mr B discovered that he was again unable to make payments to his 
Sainsburys credit account online. Sainsburys investigated once more and made a further 
payment of £30 to Mr B for his continuing inconvenience.
Shortly afterwards, Mr B again found that he was unable to make payments to his 
Sainsburys credit account online and again contacted Sainsburys about this. Sainsburys 
offered a further £30 to Mr B, which Mr B declined. Mr B wasnt happy about his continued 
inability to make payments to his account online, especially as hed followed all of 
Sainsburys suggestions to resolve the issue. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Sainsburys had made 
reasonable efforts to assist Mr B, and has informed him of the alternative means of making 
payments into his account that were available to him. Because of this, our investigator felt 
that Sainsburys response to Mr Bs complaint, including the payments totalling £130 that 
Sainsburys had made to him, already represented a fair and reasonable response to what 
had occurred. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with the view of his complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr B feels strongly about this complaint, and I note that hes made several 
detailed submissions to this service. I hope therefore that Mr B doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint that enable me to arrive at what I feel is a 
fair outcome  in line with this services role as an informal dispute resolution service.
As such, if Mr B notes that I havent responded to a specific point hes raised, it shouldnt be 
taken that I havent read and considered that point. Indeed, I can confirm that Ive read and 
considered all submissions provided to this service by both Mr B and Sainsburys. Rather, it 
should be taken that Ive read and considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to 
respond to that point directly in order to arrive at a fair outcome to this complaint. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr B has been unable to make online payments to his Sainsburys 
credit account on several occasions, and I can understand how this must be frustrating for 
Mr B given that making payments online is his preferred method of doing so.
But having reviewed Sainsburys actions following Mr B initially raising this issue with them, 
Im satisfied that Sainsburys have made reasonable and concerted efforts to resolve the 
matter to Mr Bs satisfaction, but unfortunately have been unable to do so.
In instances such as this, where a problem persists, it would be expected that Sainsburys 
would have kept Mr B informed as to the possibility of a resolution moving forwards, as well 
as to inform Mr B as to any alternative means available to him to meet his needs. 
Sainsburys appear to have done that here, and I feel that their communication with Mr B has 
been clear and open as to their attempts to find a solution to the issues that Mr B has 
experienced, and I note that Sainsburys have informed and reiterated to Mr B the other 
channels available to him to enable payments into his account to be made.
Importantly, I note that in Sainsburys letter to Mr B dated 8 June 2021, they informed Mr B 
that while they were looking for ways to enable Mr B to be able to make online payments into 
his account as he would like, but that they currently werent able to provide Mr B with a 
timescale as to when such a solution would be found.
This clarity of communication is what would be expected here, and I feel that the provision of 
this information to Mr B enabled him to make an informed decision as to how he wished to 
proceed. Additionally, I also feel that the two compensation payments that Sainsburys had 
made to Mr B at that time, totalling £130, already represented fair redress for the 
inconvenience that Mr B had experienced up to that point.
Furthermore, by electing to continue maintaining his account with Sainsburys  having been 
given clear information from Sainsburys that there was no presently known timeframe was 
to when he would be able to make online payments into his account  I feel that Mr B tacitly 
accepted the limitations of his account as confirmed to him by Sainsburys at that time. 
It also must be remembered that Mr B was still able to use the account and make payments 
into the account if he wished to do so  albeit not via his preferred channel  and because of 
this I dont feel that there was any adverse functional impact to Mr B not being able to make 
such payments online. And in consideration of all these points I dont feel that any further 
compensation, beyond what Sainsburys have already paid, is merited in this instance.
All of which means that Im satisfied that the response that Sainsburys have already issued 
to Mr Bs complaint already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
And it follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Sainsburys to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman