DRN-3722712
Complaint
Mr N is unhappy with Paysafe Financial Services Limiteds decision to close his account and 
retain his funds.
Background
Mr N opened up an account with Paysafe and made a deposit into it. He was asked to 
submit an identification document as part of its verification procedure. He appears to have 
submitted an ID document that belongs to a member of his family, rather than his own.
Mr N had agreed to Paysafes terms of use. One of the terms in that agreement was as follows:
14.4 - It is strictly forbidden to use your Account for any illegal purposes including but not 
limited to fraud and money laundering. We will investigate and report any suspicious 
activity to the relevant law enforcement agency. We reserve the right to charge you in our 
sole discretion an administration fee as displayed in the "Fees" section of the Website for 
every investigation into any such suspicious activity. You are prohibited from using your 
Account in an attempt to abuse, exploit or circumvent the usage restrictions imposed by a 
merchant or a Third-Party Provider on the services it provides.
Mr N failed that verification check and Paysafe opted to close his account. It also retained Mr 
Ns funds by deducting an administration fee. It relied on the above term to justify its decision 
to do so.
Mr N was unhappy with the actions taken by Paysafe and so he referred a complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an Adjudicator who upheld it. The Adjudicator said that Paysafe 
was free to close down Mr Ns account. As a general principle, a business has the 
commercial discretion to decide whether it wants to continue offering an account to a 
customer.
However, he didnt think that it was fair for Paysafe to retain Mr Ns funds. He said the term 
in the agreement gave Paysafe total discretion as to whether or not this administration fee 
would be charged which was potentially unfair on Mr N. He also thought it was written as if to 
suggest the fee is charged to cover the cost of an investigation into whether or not an 
account has been used for fraudulent purposes. In this instance, $120 US was retained from 
Mr Ns account. All that he had done was submit a driving licence as an identification 
document which clearly belonged to another person. He didnt think it could possibly have 
cost that much in staff time to carry out an investigation. 
The Adjudicator issued his view on the complaint on 6 September 2022. Paysafe was given 
a deadline of 20 September to respond. On 27 September, the Adjudicator told Paysafe the 
case would be referred for decision and asked that it provide any final submissions by 11 
October. To date, no response has been received from Paysafe.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines and 
that we may:
 reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that: 
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed with 
consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress or material 
inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Paysafe, it is fair and 
reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already have and to take account of 
its failure to reply to the Adjudicators opinion. 
Im persuaded that Paysafe cannot justify its decision to retain Mr Ns funds. Its implausible 
that it genuinely reflects the costs it incurred in investigation whether or not Mr N was making 
improper use of his account. 
The Adjudicator also recommended that Paysafe pay Mr N £100 in recognition of the 
inconvenience he suffered in having to bring a formal complaint in order to access funds that 
belonged to him. I think that was a fair sum at the time the Adjudicator issued his view  but 
Im mindful of the time that has elapsed since then and that Mr N has had to wait longer still 
for this matter to be resolved. In the circumstances, Im persuaded that £150 would be a 
fairer reflection of the inconvenience he has suffered. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
Paysafe Financial Services Limited should now:
Return Mr Ns funds to him without delay.
Pay him £150 in recognition of the inconvenience that has been caused to him.
If Mr N accepts the final decision by the deadline below, it will be legally binding on both 
sides. Paysafe Financial Services Limited must pay Mr N promptly and no later than 28 days 
after this decision is accepted. After this time, simple interest will accrue daily at a rate of 8% 
per year.
Id like to remind both sides that the law establishing the Financial Ombudsman Service 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA 2000)  made an ombudsmans
decision legally enforceable in court.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman