DRN-3188768
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc cancelled their travel insurance policy 
and the information provided when they added the travel insurance policy back to a 
packaged bank account. As a result, they say theyve experienced financial loss.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had the benefit of a travel insurance policy (referred to as travel plus pack) as 
part of a packaged bank account with Barclays. In or around August 2019, they say they 
went into branch and were advised that as they werent using all features of the travel plus 
pack they should downgrade to a travel pack  at a lower monthly cost. 
Mr and Mrs K say they agreed to this but Barclays representative wasnt able to alter the 
policy on the system, so they agreed to retain the travel plus pack.
Shortly after, Mrs K travelled abroad for a few months and Mr K followed a couple of weeks 
later. In October 2019, whilst away, Mr and Mrs K say they realised that the monthly cost of 
travel plus pack hadnt been debited from their account. They say they tried to contact 
Barclays to question this without success.
Also, whilst away, Mr and Mrs K say they both fell unwell and needed to be treated in 
hospital. They say they incurred medical costs in the region of £2,000. Mr and Mrs K also 
say that their bags and a purse was stolen whilst away to the value of £1,000.
After returning to the UK in November 2019, Mr and Mrs K say Mrs K visited the Barclays 
branch and spoke with the same representative. She says she asked why the travel plus 
pack had been cancelled and was told this had been done in error. Mr and Mrs K say that 
the representative told Mrs K that Barclays would be responsible for the losses that ought to 
have been covered had the travel plus pack not been cancelled. 
Mrs K says that she then told the representative that she was due to shortly travel abroad 
again and would be taking gold jewellery with her. The travel insurance policy was 
reinstated, and Mrs K says the representative told her that her jewellery would be covered in 
full under the policy.
Whilst abroad, Mr and Mrs K were subject to a robbery and her jewellery was stolen along 
with a significant amount of cash  both in pounds and local currency. 
After returning to the UK, Mr and Mrs K made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the 
cash and jewellery they had stolen when robbed towards the end of 2019, whilst abroad. 
However, the amounts paid were subject to the policy limits. 
Mr and Mrs K would like Barclays to cover their losses as a result of travel insurance not 
being in place between September and November 2019 when they were deprived of making 
a claim under the policy for medical costs and stolen bags/purse. And the value of the gold 
jewellery which was robbed from Mrs K at the end of 2019.
After bringing their complaint to our service, Barclays took responsibility for the travel plus 
pack being cancelled in or around August 2019. It said that this was a result of a system 
error and it offered Mr and Mrs K £50 by way of compensation. Our investigator thought this 
was fair and reasonable and didnt recommend Barclays to do anything more. Mr and Mrs K 
disagree. So, this complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cancelling the travel pack plus in August 2019
Barclays accept that it was its error which led to the travel pack plus being cancelled. 
However, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for the 
costs Mr and Mrs K say they incurred whilst away and which they wouldve ordinarily sought 
to claim for under their travel insurance policy. 
Thats because Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that if the travel insurance policy 
was in place during this time, in order for the claim to be considered and accepted, its likely 
that the insurer of the policy wouldve asked Mr and Mrs K to provide documentary evidence 
of their stay in hospital and the medical costs incurred. 
Mr K told our investigator in September 2021 that he hadnt been able to obtain any 
evidence to support the medical treatment he and Mrs K received  for example medical 
reports - and the costs incurred. Theyve also been unable to provide important information 
that an insurer would want to know such as the exact dates of when they were in hospital. 
Mr and Mrs K have also told our service that they think they paid for treatment in cash so 
theres no documentary evidence of the payments being made. 
Its for Mr and Mrs K to establish their claim under an insurance policy for the costs incurred. 
And the annual eligibility statement sent to Mr K at the end of February 2019 reflects on 
page four (of four):
Original receipts and/or any police/loss reports (e.g. for flight delay) will be required 
to support a claim
This is under the heading: check your insurance cover with your travel plus pack and sub-
heading: will you meet the key requirements in the event of a claim?
I also think its likely on the balance of probabilities that, had the policy been in place, the 
insurer wouldve expected Mr and Mrs K to have reported the theft of their bags and a purse 
to the police and, at the very least, obtain a crime reference number. Mr and Mrs K say they 
didnt report the incident to the police.
Without this evidence, I think its unlikely that the claim wouldve been successful so I dont 
think Mr and Mrs K have lost out as a result of what Barclays did wrong when cancelling the 
travel plus pack.
Barclays has offered Mr and Mrs K £50 in compensation, acknowledging thats its error 
resulted in the policy being cancelled. I think that fairly and reasonably reflects the 
disappointment and surprise Mr and Mrs K wouldve experienced by finding out the policy 
had been cancelled and the inconvenience of Mrs K having to attend branch to set up the 
policy again. Jewellery and cash claim 
The insurer accepted the claim for these losses but the claim was subject to the financial 
limits in the policy, which were applied. Mr and Mrs K say Barclays should be responsible for 
their losses over and above the policy limits. Thats because they say Mrs K was told that 
the value of her jewellery would be covered in full in the event of a claim.
Ive read the internal notes made by the representative who Mrs K spoke to in November 
2019 and she says she cant recall Mrs K mentioning anything to her about her jewellery. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded that Mrs K was told that the value of her 
jewellery would be covered in full under the policy, if she needed to claim, when thats not 
what the policy said.
Further, the policy limits under the travel plus pack and travel pack were the same so even if 
Mrs K had opted not to take out the travel pack in November 2019, there wouldve been 
limits under the travel plus pack under the same section of the policy. And its not uncommon 
for travel insurance policies to contain similar limits for valuables and money which are lost 
and stolen. 
Mr and Mrs K have said in the complaint form they completed when referring their complaint 
to our service that Mrs K had taken the jewellery away with her when she travelled abroad 
initially in August 2019, when they believed that had the benefit of the travel plus pack. And 
so, the travel insurance policy wouldve had the same financial limits then if it had been in 
place. So, I dont think Mrs K wouldve done anything different in November 2019 even if 
shed known at that stage that there were financial limits under the policy in the event of a 
successful claim for stolen items  including jewellery.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc doesnt need to do anything more.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman