DRN-3349570
The complaint
Miss P complains that a cooker acquired with finance from Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2020 Miss P purchased a cooker from Shop Direct t/a Very and entered into a 
finance agreement with SDFCL. In April 2021 the cooker developed a fault which caused it 
to cut out midway through cooking and leak gas.
Miss P complained to SDFCL. Following this, the manufacturer contacted Miss P and 
advised her that it would arrange an inspection. The manufacturer told Miss P not to use the 
cooker until an engineer had declared it safe.
An inspection took place in December 2021. Following this, the cooker was returned, and 
Miss P was issued with a refund.
Miss P remained unhappy and complained to this service. She said that although shes 
received a refund, she wants compensation for the cost of takeaway food she had to 
purchase which she was unable to use the cooker, and for the food poisoning that she 
suffered as a result of the cooker not functioning correctly.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that there was a fault with the cooker and therefore she wasnt able to say that there had 
been a breach of contract. The investigator said she wouldnt be asking SDFCL to do 
anything further.
Miss P didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant to this complaint. This says that, in 
certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement (Miss P) has an equal right to 
claim against the provider of credit (SDFCL) as against the supplier of goods if theres been 
a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the supplier.
Miss P hasnt said that the cooker was misrepresented to her. So, Ive focussed on whether 
theres been a breach of contract.
The law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. If they arent, then a 
breach of contract can be said to have occurred. The quality of goods includes their general 
state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Ive looked at the available evidence to determine whether the cooker was of satisfactory 
quality. Miss P has said that the flame kept cutting out halfway through cooking. Ive no 
reason to doubt what Miss P has said, but in order to uphold the complaint I need to see 
evidence that there was a fault with the cooker.
I can see that the cooker was inspected in December 2021. The engineer disconnected the 
gas supply and sealed the gas connection with a bayonet plug. The engineer didnt say in 
his report whether there was a fault with the cooker.
Ive reviewed the correspondence from the manufacturer. This advised Miss P not to use the 
cooker until the engineer had carried out an inspection. However, it doesnt say whether or 
not theres a fault with the cooker.
I can see that when the cooker was inspected after it had been collected from Miss Ps 
house, it passed all tests. This suggest that there wasnt a fault with the cooker.
Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence to show that there was  a fault with the 
cooker. So Im unable to say that the cooker wasnt of satisfactory quality, or that theres 
been a breach of contract. Because of this, Im unable to hold SDFCL liable under section 
75, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman