DRN-1924785
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr Ds complaint is about a change occurring to their joint account with Santander 
UK Plc which resulted in their account receiving no interest between August 2017 and 
September 2019. They want to be compensated for the lost earnings.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr D set up a joint account with Santander in June 2016. On this account three 
criteria need to be met for interest to be paid. 
1. Pay at least £500 into your account each month.
2. Have two or more active direct debits.
3. Be over 18 and live in the U.K. permanently.
Criteria 1 and 3 are not in dispute. Mrs B and Mr D say that the account was set with two 
direct debits being paid to a membership body meaning this requirement was met and so 
interest should have been paid on the account. Interest was earned for the first 13 months 
but then stopped. Mrs B and Mr D said they werent aware there was an issue with the direct 
debits and that Santander didnt contact them about this. They continued to pay the monthly 
account charges but earned no interest between August 2017 and September 2019.
When Mr D became aware of an issue, he looked into this and said that an unauthorised 
change had occurred to their account which meant that the two direct debits that were 
initially set up were changed and replaced with a single payment. This meant the two active 
direct debits requirement was no longer being met. He said they didnt make the change 
and had set the account up correctly and so they should be refunded the lost interest.
Santander says that for the period in dispute only one direct debit was active. It said two 
other direct debits were set up on the account, but these expired in August 2017 as payment 
hadnt been taken for at least 13 months. It said it had no obligation to contact Mrs B and 
Mr D when the direct debits expired. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered to credit Mrs B and 
Mr Ds account with £125 to cover the monthly fees for the period. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that the criteria for earning interest 
hadnt been met and he didnt think that Santander was required to tell Mrs B and Mr D that 
the direct debits had expired. He noted the goodwill gesture paid by Santander and thought 
it had acted fairly towards Mrs B and Mr D.
Mrs B and Mr D didnt accept our investigators view. Mr D provided further information 
regarding his direct debit. He said that the recipient had confirmed that the direct debits set 
up in June 2016 had remained active. He said that the two direct debits set up from the joint 
account to the membership body had initially been mistakenly treated as donations instead 
of membership payments. When this was identified they were changed to membership 
payments. When this happened, one remained as coming from the joint account, but one 
changed to Mrs Bs sole account. Mr D said this couldnt have happened due to an error by 
the membership body as it didnt have Mrs Bs sole account details. He said this could have 
only happened by an instruction by Santander as neither he nor Mrs B requested this to 
happen. 
Mr D said that Santander mistakenly changed the direct debit in August 2016 from the joint 
account to Mrs Bs sole account meaning that interest stopped being paid on the joint 
account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B and Mr D set up a joint account with Santander and in doing so agreed to its terms. 
These set out the eligibility criteria for cashback and interest. As already set out the criteria 
included having at least two active direct debits. Mr D has explained that he was aware of 
the criteria and when they set up the account this was met as, along with the other required 
criteria, they set up two direct debits to a membership body.
Santander has provided evidence of the direct debits on the account. This shows that two 
direct debits were set up in June 2016 and payments were made on 30 June 2016. 
Following this no further claims were made. A further mandate was set up in Mr Ds name to 
the same membership body on 12 July 2016. 
As the account was set up with the two direct debits in place interest was earned while these 
were considered active. The last claim was on 30 June 2016, and so these direct debits 
became inactive after 13 months. I note Mr Ds comments about not being told about this, 
but I do not find that Santander was required to inform him about this situation.
When the two direct debits became inactive, Mrs B and Mr Ds account no longer met the 
eligibility criteria for interest as only the one direct debit that was set up on 12 July 2016 
remained active. Further direct debits were set up in October 2019 following Mrs B and Mr D 
becoming aware of the situation, but no interest was earned between August 2017 and 
September 2019. As the eligibility criteria wasnt met, I dont find that Santander did anything 
wrong by not paying interest during this period.
Mr D has provided further background regarding the mandates that were set up with the 
membership body. This says that the mandates were initially incorrectly set up as donations 
and then changed to membership payments. The membership body has said this change 
must have happened at the request of Mrs B and Mr D, possibly following a call identifying 
that the initial payments were incorrectly set up as donations. At this time new mandates set 
up with Mr Ds payment still coming from the joint account but Mrs Bs now coming from a 
different account. 
I accept that the membership body wouldnt have had Mrs Bs other account details unless it 
was provided with these and so it couldnt have incorrectly transferred the direct debit to a 
different account. 
I appreciate that Mr D has said they didnt authorise this change. However, based on what I 
have seen, the direct debits were correctly set up in June 2016. These werent cancelled but 
two further mandates were put in place, one on the joint account and one on Mrs Bs 
account. I cannot see any evidence to suggest that Santander wasnt acting under the 
instruction of Mrs B and Mr D regarding this. The issue is that he direct debits were then no 
longer called form the initial mandates set up in June 2016 which meant these became 
inactive, again I cannot say that this was due to an error by Santander.Overall, I do not find that I have enough evidence to show that Santander made a mistake 
regarding Mrs B and Mr Ds joint account and so I do not uphold this complaint. Santander 
provided a goodwill offer regarding the account fees for the months when wasnt being 
earned, which I think was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman