DRN-2476926
The complaint
Miss B complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc declined her section 75 claim.
What happened
In September 2017 Miss B purchased some wardrobes from a furniture supplier and paid 
£1339 using her Sainsburys credit card.
The wardrobes were delivered to Miss B in November 2017. On delivery, Miss B noticed a 
chip on one of the sections and the laminate coming away from the MDF. There were also 
some shelves missing which shed purchased separately.
Miss B complained to the supplier, who offered to send a technician to repair the wardrobes. 
Miss B declined this and asked for a refund. Ultimately, Miss B was unable to resolve 
matters with the supplier and raised a section 75 claim with Sainsburys.
Sainsburys asked Miss B to obtain an independent report to show that the wardrobes 
werent of satisfactory quality. It told Miss B that it would cover the cost of the report.
Miss B provided a report which she said supported her claim. Sainsburys declined the 
section 75 claim. It said the merchant had offered a reasonable resolution by offering to 
repair the wardrobes and that it had refunded the cost of the missing shelves.
 
Miss B wasnt happy with the outcome of her section 75 claim and raised a complaint. In 
response, Sainsburys agreed to cover the cost of the inspection report and offered a further 
£75 compensation in recognition of providing incorrect advice about the inspection report 
and the time taken to response to Miss Bs concerns.
Miss B remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was reasonable for Sainsburys to 
ask Miss B to obtain an independent report to show there was a fault, because the section 
75 claim had been made a long time after the goods had been delivered. The investigator 
also said that although the report concluded there was a manufacturing issue, the supplier 
had offered to repair the wardrobe and Miss B shouldve allowed them the opportunity to put 
things right. The investigator concluded that there hadnt been a breach of contract and that 
Sainsburys had handled the section 75 claim fairly.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Miss Bs complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation, and that Sainsburys response to the claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable.
Miss B hasnt said that theres been a misrepresentation, so Ill focus on whether theres 
been a breach of contract.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purposes at the 
point of supply. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred, 
and Id expect the supplier to put things right, either by offering a repair or a refund, 
depending on the circumstances of the case. 
Ive looked at the available evidence. Miss B says she asked to reject the wardrobes and 
have a refund within 7 days of receiving them. This is relevant because the suppliers terms 
and conditions say that after 7 days of receiving the goods, any faults will be repaired or 
replaced. The wardrove was delivered on 9 November 2017. Miss B has provided a copy of 
a letter dated 12 November 2017 which she sent to the supplier requesting a refund.
Ive also seen a copy of an email from Miss B to the supplier dated 23 November 2017 in 
which she notified them about the missing shelves and a chip on one of the sections. I can 
see that the supplier responded by email and asked Miss B to provide photos of the 
damage.
Miss Bs email dated 23 November 2017 makes no reference to her letter dated 12 
November 2017. I would have expected her to refer to the earlier letter  especially as it 
requested a refund. Looking at the email dated 23 November 2017, this reads as if it is Miss 
Bs first communication with the supplier about the wardrobes. I dont think its likely that Miss 
B wouldve sent an email like this if shed already sent a letter requesting a refund. On 
balance, Im not persuaded that the letter dated 12 November 2017 was sent. It follows that 
Im not satisfied that Miss B requested to reject the wardrobes within 7 days of receiving 
them, as stipulated by the terms and conditions.
I can see that the supplier was in regular contact with Miss B and in December 2017 she 
agreed to accept a refund for the missing rails and to keep the wardrobes. Following this, the 
supplier advised Miss B that it had arranged for a technician to repair the wardrobe. I can 
see that Miss B declined a repair and requested a refund, on the grounds that she didnt 
think the proposed repair would be successful. Following this the supplier refunded Miss B in 
respect of the rails.
Ive considered the independent report obtained by Miss B for her section 75 claim. This 
identifies a manufacturing issue with the wardrobes but Im not persuaded that this entitles 
Miss B to a refund because under the relevant legislation, the supplier is allowed one 
opportunity to repair the fault. Miss B didnt allow the suppliers technicians the opportunity to 
repair the fault. If she had done so  and if the repair hadnt been successful  then under 
the relevant legislation she would have been entitled to a refund. But because Miss B didnt 
allow the technician the chance to repair the goods, Im unable to conclude that she should 
receive a refund.
Ive thought about whether Sainsburys handled the section 75 claim fairly.  Miss B says she 
was told that if the independent report supported her claim, shed receive a refund. I havent 
been provided with any evidence to show exactly what was discussed between Miss B and 
Sainsburys, so I cant be certain of exactly what was said. On the available information, I 
dont think the report would have made a difference to the overall outcome, because, as Ive 
already said, I think Miss B unreasonably refused a repair. Taking this into account, I think 
Sainsburys responded to the section 75 claim fairly and reasonably by refunding the cost of 
the inspection.Taking everything into consideration, I dont think Sainsburys response to the section 75 
claim was unfair. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman