complaint
Mr O has complained about a personal loan TM Advances Limited (TM Advances) 
provided to him. He says that it wasnt responsible to lend to him because he already had a 
lot of debt and hed already been refused by payday lenders.
background
TM Advances provided Mr O with a loan for £5,000.00 in April 2018. The loan had an APR of 
92% and was due to be repaid in 50 monthly instalments. This meant that the total charge 
for the credit was £9,950.00; the total amount to be repaid was £14,950.00 and the monthly 
instalments were £299.00. 
When it investigated Mr Os complaint, TM Advances didnt think it had done anything wrong 
or had acted unfairly when providing Mr O with his loan. Mr O was dissatisfied with this and 
referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators then looked at Mr Os 
complaint. She thought that TM Advances had unfairly provided this loan to Mr O and so 
upheld this complaint. 
TM Advances didnt accept our investigators assessment. As TM Advances disagreed with 
our investigator the case was passed to an ombudsman.
the regulatory and legal framework
TM Advances was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
when it lent to Mr O. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to 
follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.  
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
DRN-1168222the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to providers of consumer credit like TM Advances. CONC 
5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. My references to CONC 5 
are all made with reference to the rules as the time this loan was provided.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between the Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) first published in March 2010 and the rules set out in 
CONC 5. As is evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note 
and refer back to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions. 
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type. It says a firm must consider:
a.the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
b.the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent 
on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to 
the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial 
situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability to 
repay the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to 
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without 
the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences.[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes on to say:
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
a.without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
b.over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; and 
 
c.out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
a.it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr O would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
 
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr O wouldve been able to 
do so?
 
Did TM Advances act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?If I determine that TM Advances did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr O 
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did TM Advances, each time it lent complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr O would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
Regulations in place when TM Advances lent to Mr O required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Mr O could afford to repay his loan in a sustainable manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The affordability check should have been borrower-focused  so TM Advances had to think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr O . In other words, it wasnt enough for TM Advances to think only 
about the likelihood that it would get its money back without considering the impact of 
repayment on Mr O himself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check will more likely than not look different for different 
loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
should be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps between loans. Ive thought about all the relevant factors in this case.
Its my understanding that Mr O was asked to provide evidence of his income which 
confirmed that his declared income of £4,600 wasnt inaccurate. Ive also seen that TM 
Advances carried out a credit check and that Mr O was asked details about his living 
expenses. This confirmed that Mr O had mortgage payments of £361 a month, living costs of 
£900 a month, car costs of £200 and made monthly payments totalling £2137 to his existing 
unsecured creditors. The income and expenditure assessment provided suggested Mr O would have a remaining 
monthly disposable income of £700 after the payments for this loan were made. TM 
Advances says that the purpose of this loan was recorded as consolidation of High-Cost 
Short-Term Credit (HCSTC) The credit check showed that Mr O only owed £1153 but that 
hed already settled £3783 worth of HCSTC and he was looking to replace these funds and 
pay this back more gradually. 
Ive carefully thought about the checks TM Advances says it carried out.
I think that TM Advances ought fairly and reasonably to have queried why Mr O needed to 
borrow £5000 at an APR of 92%  and also why he owed a significant amount to a number 
of short-term lenders - and repay it over three years if he genuinely had more than £1000 
each month (excluding the payments to this loan) in disposable income available to him. 
Im mindful that CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance on the proportionality of 
assessments. And it makes it clear that the risk of credit not being sustainable directly 
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation. TM Advances will have been aware of Mr Os history of 
payday loans before he took either of these loans. 
So TM Advances was aware that Mr Os financial situation suggested that hed developed a 
reliance on expensive credit and this ought to have played a part in determining whether any 
further borrowing was sustainable. I think that Mr Os history of sustained use of HCSTC 
despite his high income and high declared monthly disposable income meant that close 
scrutiny needed to be applied to Mr Os expenditure. And this scrutiny ought fairly and 
reasonably to have involved verifying Mr Os expenditure. I think that TM Advances decision 
to proceed with Mr Os application without verifying his expenditure meant that it didnt 
complete reasonable or proportionate checks for Mr Os loan.
Would proportionate checks on these loans have indicated to TM Advances that Mr O would 
have been unable to repay his loans in a sustainable manner?
As proportionate checks werent carried out for this loan, I cant say for sure what they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate 
check would have told TM Advances that it was unfair to give this loan to Mr O, given his 
financial circumstances at the time. Mr O has provided us with evidence of his financial 
circumstances at the time he applied for this loan.
Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just because something 
shows up in the information Mr O has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any 
checks TM Advances mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything else from TM 
Advances showing what steps it took to verify the information provided (and how it 
interpreted it), I think its fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mr Os financial circumstances were likely to have been at the time. 
Ive carefully looked through everything Mr Os provided and Ive also thought about 
everything both parties have said. Having done so, I dont think Mr O was in a position to 
sustainably repay this loan. 
I think that itd be helpful for me to start by explaining that TM Advances was required to 
establish whether Mr O could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan 
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a consumer could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. This is because CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower 
wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further.  
I think this is important because the information Ive seen indicates that Mr O had significant 
debts with a number of existing creditors. Its also clear that that Mr O was gambling 
significant sums of money. And his ability to make his payments was in large part dependent 
on his success as a gambler.
Having carefully considered everything, I think there was little reasonable prospect of Mr O 
being able to make his payments without undue difficulty or borrowing further.  And as I think 
that proportionate and reasonable checks would have shown TM Advances all of this, it 
follows that I think proportionate and reasonable checks wouldve alerted it to the fact that  
Mr O wouldnt have been able to sustainably make the repayments to this loan.  
Did TM Advances act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Having carefully thought about everything, Ive not seen anything to suggest that TM 
Advances acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr O in some other way.
Overall and having carefully thought about the two overarching questions, set out on pages 
three and four of this decision, I think that TM Advances unfairly and unreasonably provided 
Mr O with his loan. As Mr O ended up paying and is being expected to pay interest and 
charges on loan he shouldnt have been given, I think that he lost out because of what TM 
Advances did wrong. 
So I think that TM Advances now needs to put things right.
fair compensation  what TM Advances needs to do to put things right for Mr O
Having carefully considered everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Os complaint for TM Advances to put things right in the following way:
remove all interest and charges added to Mr Os loan from the outset. The payments
Mr O has made should then be applied to the new starting balance  this means that
Mr O shouldnt pay anymore than £5000.00. If Mr O has already repaid more than
the amount he was lent the extra should be treated as overpayments and refunded to
him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, should there be any, from
the date they were paid by Mr O, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit file as a result of this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to take off tax from this interest. TM 
Advances must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind TM Advances of its obligations to treat Mr O positively and sympathetically 
should an outstanding balance remain after all adjustments have been made, and it be the 
case that hes experiencing financial difficulty. my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Os complaint. TM Advances Limited should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman