DRN-2897082
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund
disputed transactions debited from the companys business current account.
Mr and Mrs P, who are directors of G, bring the complaint on Gs behalf. They say they did
not authorise these transactions.
As Mr P has taken the lead on the complaint, I will refer to his submissions on the companys
behalf throughout my decision. I intend no discourtesy to Mrs P by doing so.
What happened
I issued my second provisional decision on this complaint on 10 June 2021. I have 
reproduced the background and circumstances to the dispute and the reasons I was no 
longer minded to uphold it in italics below:
Company G is disputing a large number of transactions, all made to the same merchant
which provides internet search engine advertising services. For ease, Ill refer to this
merchant as A.
G has a legitimate account with A and agrees that the transactions to A ending *828 are
genuine and do not form part of this dispute. But G says it has no knowledge of payments to
A ending *778 and *719.
Mr P has worked out the value of Gs claim to be £23,665.36 but suggests it could still be
more. Mr P says the disputed transactions could have started as early as October or
November 2016. He explains that he asked Barclays for duplicate copies of Gs account
statements but did not receive them. Barclays has suggested the disputed transactions
started in April 2017.
Mr P first raised concerns about the transactions with the bank on 23 October 2018.
He provided dispute paperwork to the bank on 1 November 2018, then again on
19 December 2018, 22 January 2019 and 18 February 2019.
Mr P explains that Barclays repeatedly lost the information provided and did not provide any
outcome. Unhappy with the banks handling of the situation, Mr P raised a complaint. Mr P
was asked to submit the claim documentation again and did so on 26 April 2019.
Mr P explains that Barclays made the following credits into the business current account:
Date Amount
24/10/2018 £2000
25/10/2018 £3500
14/1/2019 £900.55
5/2/2019 £3000
19/3/2019 £900.55
2/4/2019 £5526.47
17/5/2019 £12538.35
Mr P explains that Barclays debited the following amounts from the business current
account:
Date Amount
14/11/2018 £2000
04/02/2019 £900.55
30/08/2019 £12538.34
Barclays issued its final response letter on 15 July 2019. It accepted there had been a delay
in logging Gs claim and offered £350 compensation to acknowledge that. It said there had
been an error with the claims it had logged in April so they had been raised again in May.
It said the outcome of those claims was due by 22 July 2019. The banks letter did not say
whether it considered G had authorised the disputed transactions or not.
Mr P says G received no communication from Barclays to explain what amounts had been
credited and why. He points out that the bank didnt give any notice that it was going to take
some of the money back and it did not explain why it had done so. As Mr P was unhappy
with the way the bank had handled things, he contacted this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter but did not recommend the complaint should be
upheld. He said businesses arent obliged to investigate disputes relating to transactions
made more than 13 months after being debited, so he would not be considering the disputed
transactions made more than 13 months before Mr P became aware of the problem. He
concluded the disputed transactions made after 23 September 2017 were all authorised by
G because G would have needed to have been involved somehow for them to have been
made. He thought the £350 Barclays had offered as compensation for its service was fair.
Mr P disagreed. He said hed told Barclays about the payments as soon as hed noticed
them. He didnt understand why some transactions had been refunded and some had not.
He pointed out that Barclays had never explained this clearly and added that the bank had
told him not to contact A. He confirmed he was happy with the £350 compensation Barclays
had offered for its poor service when logging the claim.
As Mr and Mrs P did not fully agree with the investigators opinion and no agreement could
be reached, Gs case has now been passed to me for a decision.
When the complaint was referred to me, I had some further questions for both sides.
My questions for Barclays
I noted that 18 distinct disputed transactions claims had been raised between
23 October 2018 and 17 May 2019. Each claim number is made up of a number of individual
transactions. It seemed like the bank had attempted to raise chargebacks for the
transactions. I asked Barclays to provide a full breakdown of the specific transactions that
formed part of each chargeback claim. I asked the bank for more information about the
outcome of the chargeback claims. Some of the claims did not appear to have received any
response, in others the transactions had been accepted as being fraudulent and other claims
had been rejected. Barclays was not able to provide any further details about the
chargebacks now due to the passage of time. It said fraud chargebacks were raised and the
merchant accepted a refund decision for some of them, but this could have been for
numerous reasons and it was not able to confirm specifically why now. It said A had not
responded or challenged.I asked Barclays to confirm whether it was seeking to rely on the 13 month rule for some of
these transactions or not, as this line of argument had not formed a central point in the
banks own investigation. Some of the specific transactions that formed part of the
chargeback claims were made more than 13 months before Mr P reported the issue.
Barclays responded to say a business customer would need to raise a dispute about a
transaction within 13 months and pointed me to the regulators guidance document.
I asked the bank if it had contacted A. It said it had not been able to.
I noted Barclays had not specifically addressed whether it considered these transactions to
be authorised or not. Barclays said Mr P was regularly using his online banking and would
have seen the transactions a lot sooner than he reported them, so it thought he must have
known about the transactions and agreed to them being applied.
Barclays said it was concerned about some of claims Mr P had made. It said some of the
claim forms contained disputed transactions to an account with A ending *834, which
contradicted what Mr P said was in dispute. It pointed out that Mr P had raised another claim
in relation to a separate matter on 2 August 2017. It said he would have needed to review
Gs account statements to flag that issue but failed to flag any concerns about any payments
to A at that time.
Barclays has currently only provided statements covering 9 December 2017 to
10 October 2019 inclusive. This does not cover the full time period that Barclays initially
thought could be in dispute, nor does it cover the period of time Mr P has suggested the
transactions could have ran from.
Barclays no longer has any technical information from its systems about the disputed
payments. It says the disputed transactions were all made using the debit card details from
the card issued to Mrs P and has assumed they were online transactions.
My questions for Mr P
I asked Mr P if he had been able to speak with A. He said he had tried many times but A
would not give him any information about what had been purchased with the disputed
account numbers.
Mr P explained hed gone round in circles with Barclays and A and said that neither
company was prepared to discuss the matter or provide him with clear information. He said
the matter was very confusing and it was not clear why some funds had been taken back.
Mr P said that A has since blocked Gs account as the reclaimed funds took it into debit by
£2800. It is unclear specifically which transactions this debt relates to, whether they stem
back to payments for *2834 or whether they are an entirely unconnected matter.
Mr P said there was nothing further he could provide to me in respect of reference numbers.
He suggested that the bank should have the information and explanations about what it did.
He was not sure what the other dispute the bank had referred to was about.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.In cases when there is a dispute about what happened, I base my decision on the balance of
probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of
the available evidence.
Can G complain about all of the transactions in dispute?
There is currently no consensus about the scope of the transactions that form part of this
dispute. Mr P has said that its possible the disputed transactions could extend back as far as
October 2016. He says he asked Barclays to provide bank statements to help him identify
when the problem started but did not receive them. Barclays has suggested the disputed
transactions began in April 2017, but it has only provided this service with account
statements running from 9 December 2017 onwards. Barclays has also not been able to
specify all of the transactions which make up each of the 18 distinct claim reference
numbers. Against this backdrop, it is not surprising that Mr P is feeling confused.
My understanding of the matter is that transactions for account ending *828 are genuine and
transactions for accounts ending *778 and *719 are in dispute. Neither party has mentioned
any transactions for an account ending *834 until very recently. If either side wishes to make
further representations on the status of account ending *834, it would be helpful if it could do
so in response to this provisional decision. It would also be helpful if Barclays could provide
specific information to show exactly which transactions to account ending *834 have been
disputed, which dispute claim they were addressed under and what the outcome of that
claim ultimately was.
The regulations relevant to this case set out that a complainant is only entitled to redress if
they notify the bank without undue delay that fraud has taken place. This must be no later
than 13 months after the disputed transaction has debited their account. This is sometimes
called the 13 month rule. In this case, Barclays has recently indicated that it doesnt think it
should have to look into any disputed transactions that took place more than 13 months prior
to Mr P first reporting the fraud on Gs account.
Mr P says he noticed the transactions and then contacted the bank in October 2018. So Ive
thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays to decline to look into any
disputed transactions which debited Gs account before September 2017. Ive also looked at
the terms and conditions that specifically applied to Gs account. They say:
If you tell us a payment from your account wasnt authorised (for example, someone else
made it), you can ask for a refund. You need to tell us as soon as possible so you should
keep an eye on your account for anything you dont recognise and cant explain. By law, you
have 13 months to tell us. If you leave it until later than this, we will consider your
circumstances and ask you to tell us why it has taken you longer.
Mr P has said the spending wasnt noticed sooner because G had lots of genuine
transactions going through and the disputed transactions didnt immediately stand out until
there was a quieter month. Ive seen Gs account statements between December 2017 and
October 2019 and they show that typically around £100,000 in transactions were made each
month. There are lots of transactions going through along with regular online banking bill
payments being made most days.
Whilst I can appreciate that a high number of low value payments moving through an
account can make it more difficult to identity when something might be wrong, I dont think
this, in and of itself, is enough to say there were exceptional circumstances which prevented
G from disputing the transactions earlier than it did. I think Mr P would have been in aposition to know about the transactions in dispute before the time he notified the bank. G
was making online payments almost daily and monthly statements were being sent, so I am
persuaded that Mr P did have some ongoing awareness of the status of Gs account. Based
on everything thats been said and provided so far, I am currently minded to think its
reasonable for Barclays to only look into the disputed transactions that left the account from
23 September 2017 onwards.
At this moment in time, I am treating transactions to accounts *778 and *719 as being in
dispute from September 2017 onwards. I will revisit whether any transactions to account
*834 from September 2017 onwards should form part of this dispute when I have received
further submissions on this point.
How Barclays handled Gs claim- chargeback
When an account holder raises concerns about transactions made using a card, Id expect
the bank to look into the situation to see whether it has any responsibility for refunding the
amounts in dispute. Barclays has treated Gs claim as a request for chargebacks to be
raised and not as a dispute about unauthorised transactions.
I dont think that was an unreasonable thing for the bank to do initially given that the disputed
transactions were all made to a merchant that G has a genuine, ongoing relationship with.
At that point in time, it was possible there was simply confusion between G and A and the
chargeback process would have required A to respond and provide evidence. If A responded
to show the payments made from Gs account went towards services A was providing for G,
this would have cleared up the matter.
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. What this means is that
Barclays can in certain circumstances ask for a payment made to be refunded. Theres no
guarantee that the banks customer will get their money back. The merchant can provide
evidence to dispute the chargeback if it doesnt agree with the request.
When a chargeback claim is raised, the transaction amount is usually temporarily credited
back to the account. If the chargeback is successful, the money stays in the account. If the
merchant successfully defends the chargeback, the transaction amount will be debited. In
this case, some of the chargeback claims raised were successful, and some were defended.
This explains why some of the money was taken back from Gs account and some
remained.
Barclays cannot provide any evidence now to show why some claims were successful and
why some claims were not. The information it has been able to provide suggests that the
merchant accepted the refund decision. It is unclear why A did this, or why it did so for some
of the transactions and not others. If G was connected to the payments in some way, it
seems unlikely that A would have chosen not to respond or to accept the refund decision for
any of the payments.
It is unclear what Barclays did after the outcome of all of the chargeback claims was known.
Mr P says it did not contact him to explain what was happening. It seems more likely than
not that this provisional decision is the first time that Mr P has been provided with any detail
about why some of the money remained in Gs account and why some was taken back.
I cant see that Barclays considered whether it needed to take any further steps with the
chargeback in response to the defence from the merchant. It ought to have anticipated that a
situation where some of the chargeback claims were accepted and some were defended did
not make sense, on the face of it, given all of the claims stem from the same underlying
situation. Looking at each chargeback claim individually instead of the overall situation led topotentially inconsistent outcomes. Whilst there is no obligation for a card issuer to take a
chargeback forwards to the next stages, if the defence from the merchant was weak or
inconsistent, I would consider it good practice for the chargeback process to be pursued
further.
In addition to this, potentially not all of the transactions Mr P was disputing on Gs behalf
could be addressed under the chargeback scheme. Whilst Barclays is not able to say
specifically which chargeback reason code the claims were raised under, most chargeback
reason codes have fairly tight timescales in which to bring a claim. Typically a chargeback
would have to be initiated within 120 days from when the payment was made, which would
only encompass transactions made around four months before Mr P contacted the bank to
raise his concerns. As I have explored earlier, the scope of this dispute spans a wider
timeframe than that. So I dont think it was enough to just consider whether G should be
refunded through the chargeback process.
Can Barclays hold G liable for the disputed transactions?
When Barclays investigated this matter, it did not consider whether G had authorised the
transactions it is disputing.
Of particular importance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint, are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSR
2009) and 2017 (the PSR 2017) which apply to transactions like the ones G disputes.
The PSR 2009 applied to transactions made before 13 January 2018, and the PSR 2017
apply to transactions made on or after that date. Among other things the PSR 2017 includes
the following (similar wording was used in the PSR 2009, Regulation 55):
Regulation 67 of the PSR 2017 explains:
67.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the
payer for the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent to
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; or
(b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that payment
transaction forms part.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks
will be liable for unauthorised payments.
If Mr and Mrs P made the disputed transactions themselves, or authorised for them to be
made on Gs behalf, it would not be fair to ask Barclays to refund them. But Mr P says G is
not involved in the payments in dispute.
Barclays has been unable to provide any technical evidence to show the transactions Mr P
has disputed were authenticated. It seems more likely than not that they were online
payments given the nature of As business and services.
Barclays has suggested the payments were all made using Mrs Ps debit card details. But it
cannot provide any evidence to support the mechanics that would have been required to
make the payments. It is unclear whether each individual payment was separately
authorised every time.
Looking at the pattern of spending, including the frequency and the amounts, it is possible
that the payments were being made under a continuous payment authority. A continuous
payment authority is an arrangement allowing a company to take regular payments from a
bank account using card details. Rather than each payment being individually authorised bythe cardholder, the payee requests the payment. Without the co-operation of A, it is
inherently difficult to understand if Mr or Mrs P had authorised the creation of a continuous
payment authority, or how Gs card details came to be associated with these other accounts.
There might well be an error or misunderstanding at As end. Neither the bank, nor Mr P, nor
this service has been able to engage in any meaningful dialogue with A. I mention this as
Mr P has maintained that he has no knowledge of the accounts linked to these payments.
It is inherently difficult for Mr P to provide evidence to support that position when A refuses to
engage with him about the matter. Im also mindful that only some of the chargebacks were
defended, which would be inconsistent with what I would expect to see if there was a
connection between the disputed spending and company G.
So I cant be as sure as I would need to be that each payment was authenticated each time.
I also have doubt around whether Mr and Mrs P authorised these transactions on Gs behalf.
The evidence I have to consider does not currently lead me to think its more likely than not
that Mr or Mrs P consented to these payments and Barclays has not sufficiently explained
why it considers G authorised the disputed transactions.
Our investigator made enquiries with a third party that handles company Gs advertising.
The evidence he obtained, which Barclays is already aware of, suggests it would not have
been possible for that particular third party to have made any payments on Gs behalf.
Barclays has also said the delay in identifying the disputed payments shows that G must
have agreed to them at the time they were made. But I do not consider that to be sufficient
evidence to demonstrate that G had consented to the payments. I also think it is speculative
to say Mrs P could know something about the disputed transactions just because they link to
the card number on the debit card issued to her.
Barclays said Mr P raised multiple fraud investigations throughout 2017 so suggests he was
closely monitoring Gs account. It later specifically said that Mr P raised a claim on
2 August 2017 and did not mention any transactions to A as part of that matter. It has not
provided any further details about those investigations. I have asked Mr P about them and
he did not recall what the bank is referring to.
As such, I do not think the currently available evidence specifically around this point strongly
supports that Mr P made the disputed transactions himself or that he allowed a third party to
do so.
Overall
It is for Barclays to show that G authorised these payments  not for Mr and Mrs P to show
that G did not. When I weigh everything up, I have currently not seen enough evidence to be
as sure as I would need to be that Mr and Mrs P made the transactions or that they, by their
actions, authorised someone else to make them.
Subject to any further evidence received from either side, I am currently minded to uphold
the complaint and find that Barclays must refund the disputed transactions made towards
accounts *778 and *719 from 23 September 2017 onwards. It should add 8% simple interest
to these transactions from the date each one was made until the date of settlement, less any
tax lawfully deductible.
Barclays does not have to refund any transactions made towards account *778 and *719
where a refund has already been achieved through a successful chargeback claim. Barclays
has not currently provided a breakdown to show specifically which transactions were
refunded and which transactions were re-debited.
I will revisit whether any transactions to account *834 from September 2017 onwards shouldbe refunded when I have received further submissions from both parties about this account.
Barclays should also provide evidence to show if it has already paid G the £350
compensation previously offered for inconvenience caused.
Responses to my first provisional decision
Mr P explained that this matter had caused a lot of upset and it was difficult to know where to
begin. He said that Barclays did not investigate the matter properly and had made errors. He
felt the bank was at fault and had not clearly explained what had been debited or credited to
the account.
Barclays responded to say it had been able to obtain supporting paperwork for some of the
chargebacks from an archive. It was concerned that a third party had Gs payment
information and provided documentation to show that an employee of G (who Ill refer to as
L) had set up an account with A on Gs behalf.
The bank pointed out that G had raised a disputed transaction claim before in connection to
another matter, but that claim had been withdrawn when Mr P learnt of the involvement of L.
It provided evidence from its notes to explain that dispute. The records from the time said
Mr P had given L access to Gs online banking details.
Barclays said L was not on the account mandate and did not have a debit card. It felt that if
Gs details had been shared with L, this was in breach of the account terms and conditions.
It felt it was more likely than not that the transactions in dispute were authorised by G as a
result of information being shared.
Barclays re-reviewed the transactions in dispute and said that some transactions linked to
Gs genuine account with A had been raised and the value of the claim was overstated as a
result.
It said the paperwork from the chargeback showed a clear link that G had shared its
payment details with L. It pointed out that G would have seen the account balance decrease
over time. It felt G had not adhered to the PSR regulations and had provided the necessary
details for the transactions to take place.
My further questions
I contacted Mr P and explained what Barclays had said. I asked Mr P about L and his
connection to company G. I also provided Mr P with copies of Gs bank statements to
highlight what Barclays had said about some of the reference numbers for transactions in
dispute appearing to link back to Gs genuine account with A.
Mr P responded to say Barclays told him not to contact A because the bank was already
involved in that conversation.
He confirmed that L was an ex-employee of G and that L had opened Gs genuine account
with A. Mr P said the other account with A was linked to a different company, company D,
which was a business connected to L. He provided copies of emails from July 2017, October
2018 and January 2020 where hed communicated with the third party company that handled
Gs advertising. In those emails, the third party company confirmed the connection between
L and company D.Mr P explained that L had been let go because hed mismanaged Gs funds. He suggested
that L was running company D as a sole trader and that it was fraud because he was
charging payments in relation to company D back to G for his own purpose.
Mr P said Barclays had told him not to involve the police and that the bank would deal with
the matter. He confirmed that hed already got copies of Gs bank statements.
My second provisional decision 
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im no longer persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable to say that
Barclays should refund G for the transactions that remain in dispute. Ill explain why.
In my first provisional decision, I set out what the relevant regulations say about when a
payment transaction can be regarded as being authorised. This is important because as a
starting point, account holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and,
generally speaking, banks will be liable for unauthorised payments.
In addition, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Gs account with Barclays. They
explain that G has a responsibility to keep payment tools such as PINs, passwords and
cards safe. The terms say G should not give its payment tools to someone else or let
someone else use them. They explain that if someone is able to take money from an
account because payment tools have not been kept secret, the bank is unlikely to be able to
refund the money.
The information I have received in response to my first provisional decision has made it
clearer that the transactions in dispute relate to ex-employee L and his company, company
D. The chargeback paperwork the bank provided evidenced the existence of a connection
between L and G, and the email correspondence Mr P has recently provided from the
company that handles Gs advertising further supports this. In addition, Mr P has explained
that L used Gs money for his own purposes after his employment had been terminated and
that this must be fraud.
So taking all of this into account, essentially Mr Ps position is that L made transactions that
he didnt know about. But this doesnt automatically mean that those transactions are
unauthorised and that they should be refunded.
The question I have to decide is whether when L made the transactions that are in dispute,
he should be treated as acting as Gs agent.
It is possible for Mr and Mrs P to give someone else authority to carry out transactions on
Gs behalf, so G would still be liable, even if Mr and Mrs P didnt physically perform the
transactions themselves or give their explicit permission for them. Barclays can hold G liable
for any transactions that happened because it gave someone authority to act on its behalf.
This is what is known as apparent authority. If a payer has enabled the use of their payment
instrument by a third party, so that it looks to the bank like the payment transaction has been
authorised by the payer, the payment can be considered authorised for the purposes of the
PSRs. From what I have seen most recently, Mr P allowed L to use Gs payment tools.
In doing so, Mr P played a part in permitting the transactions in dispute to take place.
By permitting L to use Gs payment tools, Mr P effectively gave L the status of being Gs
agent. It seems more likely than not to be that Mr P had an arrangement with L that L could
use Gs payment tools for business purposes. It might well be that this arrangement initially
suited them both and made it easier for L to fulfil his duties when he was employed by G.The emails Mr P provided show that in June 2017 L was emailing the third-party advertising
company and arranging payments to A for campaigns. Ive not seen any evidence that
makes me think that L stole any payment details from Mr P. I think, on balance, Mr P
willingly gave L access to them.
I can appreciate that the circumstances when Mr P originally gave L access to the payment
tools may well have looked and felt very different to where their relationship ended up. But
by sharing these details, there was always the risk that L was going to go further than Mr P
anticipated by making more transactions than he knew about or had otherwise agreed. I can
understand why Mr P feels G has been the victim. From what hes most recently said, its
apparent that L abused his trust.
But my role isnt to determine whether G has been the victim of a crime. My role is to
determine whether Barclays is entitled to hold G responsible for the disputed spending that
occurred. The emails Mr P has recently provided suggest that he didnt know that G was
paying for Ds advertising account and I imagine that came as a nasty shock when he
realised. But that does not automatically mean that the transactions are unauthorised. Mr P
had given L apparent authority to transact by allowing L to use and access Gs payment
tools. Mr Ps actions exposed Barclays to the risk of loss by the way that he managed Gs
security details. Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Mr P did enough to bring that
situation to an end when Ls employment with G was terminated.
I know Mr P will be very disappointed with this outcome. Hes spent a lot of time raising this
matter with the bank and it is frustrating that it has taken so long to unpick the finer details of
what most likely happened. But from all of the evidence thats available to me now, I believe
Mr Ps actions cloaked L with the permission to make transactions on Gs behalf. So I think
Barclays is fairly entitled to hold G liable for the disputed transactions in this case.
Im mindful that Barclays initially refunded G with £28,365.91 when it raised the chargeback
claims then later debited £15,438.89. Barclays has already indicated to me that some of the
chargeback claims were either written off by the bank or because merchant A accepted the
refund decision. As it is unable to provide any supporting evidence or further rationale to
explain exactly which transactions were refunded and why, I think a fair and reasonable
outcome to this dispute would be for Barclays to not seek to now recover any of the
£12,927.02 that remained in Gs account. The bank has not currently provided enough
evidence to establish that it would now be appropriate to reverse or adjust that overall
position.
In its final response Barclays offered G £350 compensation to acknowledge the
customer service it had provided had fallen short. Neither party has confirmed whether this
money was paid to G or whether it remains outstanding. Ive thought carefully about this
case and I agree this is a fair and reasonable way for the bank to make up for the poor
service it provided to G when it tried to raise the disputed transaction claim.
Responses to my second provisional decision 
Barclays responded to say it had no further evidence to provide and no other comments to 
make. It confirmed that the compensation previously offered to G had not been paid and that 
its offer to pay this still remains open. 
Mr P responded on Gs behalf. He said that Barclays had not handled the matter as it should 
have done. He pointed out that hed given all of the information to the bank when hed first 
realised there had been fraud on the account and that he submitted that same information 
many times. He felt the bank had tried to wash its hands of the matter and was unhappy that it had been 
three years before the 13 month rule had been mentioned. He pointed out that Barclays did 
not provide anything in writing to him to say whether there had been a fraud or not. 
He thought Barclays should refund what is due and go after the party that had defrauded Gs 
account. He said he wasnt sure where G could go from here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, much of what Mr P has said in response to my second provisional decision 
has already been explored and explained in all of my provisional findings which I have 
outlined above and form part of this final decision. 
Although Ive thought again about what Mr P has said, Ive not been persuaded to alter my 
position on the matter.  
I agree that Barclays did not handle Gs claim well. It is not in dispute that he had to submit 
the same information multiple times. Barclays has acknowledged this too, by offering £350 
compensation as recognition that the customer service it provided had fallen short. Nothing 
that Mr P has said in response has changed my position on this and I am still minded to think 
this is a fair and reasonable way for the bank to make up for the poor service it provided to G 
when it tried to raise the disputed transaction claim. 
I accept Mr Ps point that it has taken a long time to get to the heart of this dispute. It is 
disappointing that Barclays did not explain when Mr P first raised the claim that it would not 
typically be able to look at transactions that were made more than 13 months prior to the 
dispute being logged. And I accept that Barclays final response letter did not say whether it 
considered G had authorised the disputed transactions or not. Initially, it had treated the 
matter as a chargeback dispute. But I think the investigation I have undertaken has 
explained what the banks position is and why. 
I can understand Mr Ps strength of feeling about the dispute. As I explained in my second 
provisional decision, its apparent that L abused Mr Ps trust and used Gs payment tools in 
circumstances that Mr P did not agree to. But once Mr P gave L access in this way, the 
spending L made would be seen by the bank as being authorised by Mr P and treated as 
legitimate transactions made on Gs behalf. Ive not seen anything that makes me think that 
Mr P did enough to bring that situation to an end when he did not wish for it to continue to be 
possible, or when Ls employment with G was terminated. The bank is entitled to hold G 
liable for transactions made by L in these circumstances. 
I realise that Mr P will be very disappointed with this position. Hes said he doesnt know 
what else he can do to pursue the matter. There may be other routes open to G, such as 
court action, but Im not able to advise on the implications of this. My final decision brings to 
an end what I, and the Financial Ombudsman Service, can do for G in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an outstanding offer to pay £350 compensation to 
acknowledge the inconvenience it caused to G. For the reasons I have explained, I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances and so my final decision is that Barclays should pay G 
£350.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman