DRN-2161091
The complaint
Mr M complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited has avoided his policy and 
is pursuing him for its claim costs. 
What happened
Mr M took out a car insurance policy with Watford through an aggregator site. He was 
involved in an accident and claimed on his policy. 
During the claim Watford discovered that Mr M had four speeding offences within the last 
five years which he hadnt told Watford about when he bought the policy. Because of this 
Watford said it wouldnt have insured him, it also felt Mr M had either deliberately or 
recklessly not mentioned the speeding offences. So, it avoided his policy (cancelled from the 
start as if it never existed) and declined his claim. 
When Mr M spoke with Watford it had said it had paid the third partys claim costs but 
wouldnt be covering his claim. Watford then wrote to Mr M to recover what itd paid out on 
his claim, as it had avoided his policy. Mr M didnt think this was fair and complained, he said 
Watford had agreed to cover the third partys costs. 
Watford looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. It said that it had avoided Mr Ms 
policy because of the undisclosed offences, and it hadnt said it wouldnt recover its costs 
from him. Mr M didnt agree and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She 
found that Watford had acted fairly and reasonably by avoiding his policy. She also found 
that Watford hadnt said it wouldnt recover its outlay from Mr M and the amount it had asked 
him to repay was what it had paid out. Mr M didnt agree, he said he was being asked to pay 
too much by Watford. 
As Mr M didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Watford thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out his policy with them as he didnt declare four previous motoring offences. 
Ive looked at the question Mr M was asked when he took out the policy. The question said:
In the last five years have you received any motoring convictions, driving licence 
endorsements or fixed penalties, and/or have you been disqualified from driving (including 
pending prosecutions)?
In response to this question Mr M selected No. Watford said during the claim Mr M had four 
motoring offences which should have been declared. Mr M hasnt disagreed with Watford 
about this, Im therefore satisfied he made a misrepresentation when taking out the policy. 
Watford has provided evidence which shows if hed declared these motor offences then it 
wouldnt have offered him cover. This means Im satisfied Mr Ms made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
Watford has also said it believes Mr Ms misrepresentation was either deliberate or reckless. 
It said this is because Mr M would have known he was giving a false statement by not 
declaring these offences or didnt care whether it was false when he answered the question. 
As Mr M hasnt disputed this, Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances so 
Im not going to interfere with Watfords decision on Mr Ms representation being deliberate 
or reckless. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ms misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless, Ive 
looked at the actions Watford can take in accordance with CIDRA. CIDRA says Watford can 
avoid the policy, reject all claims and keep Mr Ms premium. As this is what Watford have 
done, Im satisfied its acted in accordance with CIDRA. 
Ive also looked at Mr Ms point about Watford recovering what its paid out to the third 
partys involved in the claim. When Watford wrote to Mr M to say it would be paying the third-
party costs, Im not persuaded this meant it wouldnt recover the outlay from him. Also, as 
Watford wouldnt have incurred these costs but for Mr Ms misrepresentation, Im satisfied 
its fair and reasonable to recover them from him. So, Im not going to interfere with 
Watfords decision to do that. 
Mr M has also said he thinks Watford is pursuing him for too much money. I can see Watford 
has given Mr M a breakdown of what its recovering from him. Ive also seen evidence that 
this is what Watford has paid out under this claim. Because of this Im satisfied Watford is 
only pursuing Mr M for the costs its incurred. I therefore wont be instructing Watford to do 
anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman