DRN-3198531
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that TFS Loans Limited lent to them in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were given a single loan by TFS. They borrowed £5,000 in March 2013 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 48 monthly instalments. The loan was guaranteed by Mrs Hs 
mother. The loan was fully repaid in April 2017.
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think it 
had been reasonable for TFS to give this loan to them. So she thought the complaint should 
be upheld and asked TFS to put things right.
TFS didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr and Mrs H accept my decision it is legally binding on both them, and TFS.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS gave this loan to Mr and Mrs H required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether they could afford to repay what 
they owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr and Mrs H. In 
practice this meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause 
Mr or Mrs H undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the 
impact of any repayments on Mr and Mrs H.
And the rules also place additional obligations on lender when providing a loan to joint 
borrowers as is the case here. The rules say that lenders should consider whether it may be 
appropriate to carry out a creditworthiness assessment separately for each customer (as 
well as one for them together), having regard to the risk to that customer arising from the 
agreement were the customer to be treated as being solely responsible for the obligations of 
the joint borrowers under the agreement. I will consider this point further later in this 
decision.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumers (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr and Mrs H.
The initial application for the loan was made by Mrs H alone. At that time TFS asked her for 
details of her income and normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file. As a result of 
those checks TFS decided that it wasnt willing to lend to Mrs H. So it suggested that it might 
be helpful if she made a joint application with Mr H instead.
So TFS gathered some information from Mr H as well before it agreed the loan. It asked him 
for details of his income. And it checked Mr Hs credit file to assess how much he was 
repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past.
Mr and Mrs H were entering into a significant commitment with TFS. They would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of four years. So I think it was right that TFS wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about their financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to them. I think that the checks Ive described above 
were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that TFSs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
As I have said earlier, TFS concluded from its initial checks that it wouldnt be reasonable to 
lend to Mrs H alone. And looking at the information TFS received from its checks that would 
appear to be a correct decision. Mrs H was heavily indebted across a number of loans and 
credit card accounts, and was responsible for payments on a substantial mortgage. It 
doesnt seem to me that she was in any reasonable position to take on further debt 
repayments.So TFS turned to Mr H to support the loan application. By doing so it increased the amount 
of income it could use when assessing the joint disposable income that could be used to 
repay the new borrowing. And so it concluded that the loan repayments would be affordable. 
But as I mentioned earlier, it might be appropriate for TFS to also consider whether Mr H, as 
a sole applicant, should be granted a loan.
The results of the credit check that TFS performed on Mr H showed that he was facing 
significant problems managing his money. The credit check showed that Mr H had six active 
defaults, the latest of which occurred just the month before. And he also was responsible for 
repaying two large loans, and a credit card balance that had remained at its current level for 
a number of months. So that would seem to be a very clear indicator that Mr H was in 
financial difficulties. 
So it seems to me that, from the results of its checks, TFS should have seen that neither 
Mr H nor Mrs H was in a position to take on additional debt either jointly or individually. 
I have considered that Mrs H said that she intended to use some of the loan proceeds to 
repay other debts. But it is apparent that the amount she was borrowing wouldnt have been 
sufficient to make any significant inroads into her other debts. And of course that would still 
have left all Mr Hs debts to be serviced as well.
So I dont think it was reasonable for TFS to accept the joint application for the loan from 
Mr and Mrs H. TFS needs to pay them some compensation.  
Putting things right
I dont think TFS should have agreed to lend to Mr and Mrs H in March 2013. So TFS 
should;
refund all the interest and charges paid by Mr and Mrs H on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr and Mrs Hs credit files in relation to 
the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr and Mrs H certificates showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to 
put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman