DRN-3415461
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the service he received from Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV) under the home emergency section of his Home Insurance policy 
when he lost power to his house.
References to LV in this decision include its contractors. 
What happened
The background to this case has been set out by our investigator in his view so I wont 
repeat it here at length.
Briefly stated, at approximately 10:00am on 10 October 2021 Mr B lost power to the sockets 
in his house. This included an extension which makes up approximately 40% of the size of 
the house. The lights werent affected. Mr D contacted LV at 12:00 but an engineer didnt 
arrive until after 22:30.
The engineer identified that the problem was with one of two ring main circuits, the one that 
served the original house. The other ring main circuit served the extension. The faulty ring 
main circuit supplied appliances including fridge freezer, washing machine, dishwasher, and 
other kitchen appliances, TVs, computer and central heating controls. He disconnected this 
from the consumer unit and power was restored to the sockets on the ring main circuit which 
supplied the extension. Mr D had to use extension leads from the extension to run 
appliances in the original house.
Mr Ds complaint relates to the service he received from LV in its handling of this problem, 
from the initial delay in an engineer attending and thereafter to failures to communicate. 
The failures to communicate included a failure to inform Mr D of the extent of the cover that 
was provided by his home emergency policy, what wasnt covered, and what he could 
expect from it, the failure to respond to his repeated request for updates on how his electrical 
problem would be permanently addressed, and a failure to provide relevant information and 
documents. 
It wasnt until 16 October that Mr D was told that he wasnt covered for any repairs and that 
hed have to pay £709 for investigation work to find out the cause of the fault with the ring 
main. It wasnt until 18 October that Mr D learnt that up to that point he hadnt actually been 
speaking to LV but to its contractors, so LV wasnt aware of the issues he had.
LV has acknowledged that there were failures in its communication with Mr D. It initially paid 
him £200 compensation in respect of these. Following a review of Mr Ds complaints, a 
further payment of £150 was made to him. LV has also explained to Mr D the extent of the 
cover provided by his policy.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with LVs response to his complaints and brought them to this service.
Our investigators view was that LV had undertaken a temporary repair and that was all that 
it was required to do under Mr Ds policy as the emergency had been addressed. He noted 
from Mr Ds policy that there was no cover for the costs of tracing any fault beyond the initial 
visit nor were the costs of a permanent repair covered by the policy. He acknowledged that 
the service provided by LV could have been better but considered that the £350 
compensation that Mr D had received was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr D doesnt accept our investigators view and has asked that his complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman. Its therefore been passed to me to provide a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the information provided by Mr D and LV and having referred to the 
terms of Mr Ds policy, Im not going to ask LV to do any more, and Ill explain why. 
In considering Mr Ds complaint I first considered the terms of Mr Ds policy as this sets out 
what LV is required to do, and what it isnt. 
The Schedule to the policy states what its intended to cover. Its to provide: 
Up to £500 to help with a range of emergencies such as failure of your main heating 
system, blocked drains & loss of electrical power.
The policy itself includes the following (and my emphasis is underlined):
It defines an emergency as:
Emergency a sudden and unforeseen incident at your home
 which, if not dealt with quickly, will: 
make your home unsafe or insecure; 
cause damage to your home and/or its contents; or 
leave your home without essential services. 
It goes on to say:
What is covered 
In the event of an emergency at your home, well: 
tell you how to protect yourself and your home before help arrives; 
organise and pay for an approved repairer to provide emergency assistance, up to a 
maximum of £500 (including call out, parts, labour and VAT) for any one emergency. 
The policy defines Emergency Assistance as:
Work carried out by an approved repairer to resolve the immediate emergency. This 
may involve a temporary or permanent repair.
The policy goes on to say:
Well pay for emergency assistance for the following insured events:Whats covered
  
Failure of the permanent electrical system that you have legal responsibility for from 
the electric meter in your home to fuse boxes, sockets, switches and light fittings. 
Whats not covered
the failure of a single light or socket unless the failure is in a kitchen or bathroom or the 
fault has caused the whole circuit to fail; 
I consider that taken together, the above terms of the policy provide that a failure of the 
electrical system if it involves lights or sockets in a kitchen, or if a whole circuit fails, is 
covered. LV will pay up to £500 towards the cost of a temporary or, if it can be done at the 
same time, a permanent, repair in order to resolve the immediate emergency.
From this I think its clear that its not a policy that provides permanent repairs unless these 
can be achieved at the same time as a temporary repair, and then only up to £500. 
So, faced with the emergency of having no power to the sockets in Mr Ds whole house, LVs 
engineer undertook a temporary repair, defined as:
a repair that will resolve the immediate emergency but may need to be replaced by a 
permanent repair. 
The repair undertaken by LV restored power to Mr Ds extension but not to his original house 
which included the kitchen. By using extension leads from the extension to the original 
house, Mr D was able to alleviate the emergency of having no working sockets in his house 
at all. In my view, as a short-term measure, this provided a reasonable alternative to 
restoring Essential Services, defined as:
the drainage system, main heating system, internal gas, electricity or water supply 
where no reasonable alternative exists and the service is necessary to prevent an 
emergency. 
At that point LV shouldve made it clear to Mr D that a permanent repair to the faulty ring 
main circuit would be necessary, but that the policy doesnt cover:
the cost of any test, survey or search required to trace any fault after we have 
resolved the immediate emergency by completing a temporary repair  or
the cost of further work if our approved repairer has resolved the immediate 
emergency by completing a temporary repair.
Mr D argues that LV didnt undertake a temporary repair, but a partial repair. I dont consider 
there to be a distinction here between a temporary repair and a partial repair. Both could get 
an Essential Service operational to alleviate an emergency.
I agree that the service provided by LV to Mr D was unacceptable. Because of the failures in 
communication by LV, Mr D was unaware of the limitations of his policy until 16 October. He 
then had to continue to put up with the temporary arrangement until his own independent 
electrician identified the cause of the fault and repaired it for £324 on 2 November, although 
for 7 days within this period Mr D was away from home on holiday. This was clearly and understandably a cause of considerable inconvenience and upset for 
Mr D which LV has sought to compensate for with its payment of £350. Our investigators 
view was that this sum was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr D doesnt consider that our investigators view is an acceptable outcome, and Ive taken 
into account what Mr D has said in his response to our investigators view. 
The compensation awards that this service makes arent intended to fine or punish a 
business, but to recognise the impact a businesss actions or failings have had on an 
individual customer as distinct from the inconvenience that necessarily flows from something 
going wrong.
In Mr Ds case, I acknowledge that Mr D suffered significant frustration and inconvenience 
over approximately 16 days which couldve been avoided by better communication by LV. 
Time was wasted by LV not informing Mr D at the time of the temporary repair that a 
permanent repair was something hed have to arrange himself. A lot of time was spent by Mr 
D in trying to get a response from LV .But I also take into account that whilst the temporary 
repair was inconvenient and not ideal, it did enable some power to be provided to the main 
part of Mr Ds house. I agree with our investigator that the compensation paid by LV is very 
much in line with what this service might have required it to pay In these circumstances.
My conclusion is therefore that I consider that the £350 already paid by LV to Mr D is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the trouble, upset and inconvenience that Mr D suffered over 
the16 days he had restricted power to the larger part of his house due to the poor service 
provided by LV.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint and I dont require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do any more than it has already done in 
paying him £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman