DRN-4235040
The complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to provide the online 
service he relied on for his pension plan for a period of five months. And that this caused him 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr O has a pension plan with Aviva. He said he manages his pension through his Aviva 
account online. As Mr O frequently needs to access his pension from overseas, he said this 
online access to his pension is very important to him. 
At some point in late August 2022, Mr O wasnt able to access his account online. Avivas 
records show that he successfully logged in on 17 August 2022. But on 31 August 2022, Mr 
O raised a complaint because he couldnt access his account online. He said hed been 
unable to access his account for over two weeks. And that he was being shown a message 
which said the problem was a technical issue. He wanted to know what the problem was 
and when it would be fixed. He also wanted to know why Aviva hadnt told him there was a 
problem. 
Mr O submitted a further online complaint form on 1 September 2022. This made similar 
points to the 31 August 2022 complaint, but also asked how Aviva would compensate him 
for the inconvenience the issue was causing him.
Aviva tried to call Mr O but couldnt get through. But on 20 September 2022, it asked him to 
clear cookies. Then on 23 September 2022, Mr O was able to log into his online account and 
submit a fund switch.
Aviva spoke to Mr O about his complaint in early October 2022. It wanted to establish when 
Mr O wouldve switched if thered been no issues. Aviva felt it couldnt demonstrate when Mr 
O wouldve done this.
Aviva issued its final response to the complaint on 21 October 2022. It acknowledged that 
the online service was important to Mr O, given he was frequently overseas. And apologised 
for the inconvenience. It offered him £150 compensation for this and for the frustration it had 
caused. 
Aviva said itd known thered been an issue with online access from 17 August 2022. But 
that this had been resolved on 9 September 2022. It said it didnt have a clear explanation 
about why the error had occurred. But was confident that Mr O shouldnt have any further 
issues. It also said itd asked its IT department to have a closer look at Mr Os plan to rule 
out any possible reoccurrences.
Aviva said that Mr O had submitted a switch instruction on 23 September 2022, which it had 
processed using an effective date of 27 September 2022. But said that hed had other ways 
of getting in touch with it to arrange the switch if hed wanted to do it earlier. It also noted that 
Mr O didnt need to be logged into his online account to view fund information, as its fund 
centre was available on its general website. 
Aviva said Mr O hadnt initially told it that hed been looking to switch funds. And that it had 
only become aware of this on 3 October 2022. It said Mr O hadnt been able to say exactly 
when he wouldve initiated the switch if there hadnt been any issues. But it noted that the 
online service had been restored on 9 September 2022. And that it wasnt until 23 
September 2022 that Mr O switched his funds. So it wasnt clear when Mr O wouldve 
completed a switch, or to what funds, if thered been no issues. So it couldnt bring his switch 
request forward.
Aviva said it couldnt reimburse the plan charges for the period of time when Mr O didn't 
have online access, as those charges werent taken to cover the cost of providing an online 
service. 
Mr O wasnt happy with Avivas response. He said hed continued to experience technical 
issues with his online access. He wanted an investigation into the technical problems, which 
he wanted to be fully resolved. He also felt the charges hed paid over the period hed had 
no online access should be reimbursed. And that the lack of access had had a financial 
impact on him. 
Aviva issued a further final response letter on 14 December 2022. It apologised for the 
continuing inconvenience. And increased its offer of compensation from £150 to £300. It said 
it had understood that the online service was now working for Mr O, as hed submitted a fund 
switch online on 23 September 2023. And although it had discussed the situation with its IT 
team, they hadnt been able to identify any problems with Mr Os account. Aviva suggested a 
number of actions Mr O could take to try to restore full access to his online account, but he 
didnt think it should be necessary for him to take such steps.
Aviva said it couldnt know whether Mr O had lost out financially as it wasnt clear that he 
wouldve definitively switched sooner, or to what funds. So it said it wasnt in a position to 
perform an investment loss calculation.
Mr O was still unhappy. So he brought his complaint to this service. He shared a screenshot 
of the error message he said he was still seeing when he tried to log into his online account. 
This said: Service unavailable, please try again later. 
Mr O told this service that apart from the September 2023 switch, he couldnt access his 
account to see the value of his funds. And he couldnt carry out analysis or change his 
portfolio. He was unhappy that Aviva still hadnt provided a technical solution to the issues 
he was facing. He felt he was paying for a service he wasnt getting. He wanted access to 
his online account immediately. And compensation for the undelivered services and the 
financial losses he felt hed suffered since mid-August 2022. 
Following various requests for information from our investigator to Aviva, it made an offer to 
resolve the complaint. 
Aviva maintained that Mr O hadnt been able to tell it, when it had spoken to him twice in 
October 2022, on what date, or to what funds, he wouldve switched. So it felt a loss 
calculation hadnt been possible. But it said that if it had known when, and to what funds Mr 
O wouldve switched, it wouldve been able to perform a calculation, with the view of 
backdating a switch for him. It proposed that it could assume that Mr O wouldve submitted 
the same switch that he did on 23 September 2023, on 31 August 2022, as this was the date 
that he submitted the online form asking it to look into the issue. 
Aviva said that as its switches are always future dated, if Mr O had successfully submitted 
the same switch on 31 August 2022, the effective date used wouldve been 2 September 
2022. It said it would carry out a loss calculation on this basis. And if this showed a loss, it would correct that.
Our investigator felt that Avivas settlement offer was fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr O didnt agree with our investigator. He felt Aviva still hadnt resolved the issue. And that 
it hadnt provided him with an alternative viable solution to manage his pension. He felt Aviva 
should provide all of its customers with much better online access to their pensions.
Our investigator explained that this service couldnt issue any punitive awards. And that our 
role here was to consider if Avivas offer did enough to resolve Mr Os complaint. He 
explained that our role wasnt to fix the IT issue. 
Mr O made the following points for me to consider:
- He felt that Aviva hadnt responded to his complaint quickly enough. And that itd 
never told him what the problem was, and why it had taken so long to sort out. So he 
didnt know if it would happen again. 
- He didnt feel that the alternative methods Aviva had suggested for contacting it or 
choosing funds worked for someone who was overseas a lot. And he didnt feel that 
calling it was feasible for him due to cost, location and time differences. He felt Aviva 
couldnt force him to choose an inferior, impractical method from the online access 
he wanted.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Avivas settlement 
offer is reasonable under the circumstances. I can see that Mr O feels very strongly about 
his complaint, so I know my decision will be disappointing. Ill explain the reasons for it.
I should perhaps first explain the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulatory body. So 
I cant tell Aviva how its online access should work. But I can consider whether Avivas 
settlement offer is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of Mr Os complaint. 
Where a business has made an offer to settle a complaint  as Aviva has done here  what I 
have to decide is whether, in all the circumstances, that offer is fair and reasonable.
In this case, Aviva has acknowledged that there was a technical issue with its online access 
between 17 August 2022 and 9 September 2022. And that although it couldnt identify any 
specific issues with Mr Os access after this period, it understood that he still had access 
issues for some time after this issue had been resolved.
Aviva offered £300 for the inconvenience and frustration this issue caused Mr O. And said it 
would carry out a loss assessment based on what Mr Os pension plan wouldve been worth 
if the switch hed requested on 23 September 2022 had been requested on 31 August 2022 
instead.
Mr O doesnt consider that this offer is fair. Hes not persuaded that the problem has been 
resolved. And he doesnt consider the alternative methods available to him for managing his pension are practical under his circumstances. 
As our investigator noted, when a business does something wrong, and makes an offer, this 
service will assess whether the offer is sufficient to fairly put things right. We want, as far as 
reasonably possible, to put Mr O back into the position he wouldve been in but for the 
access issues. 
I first considered the steps Aviva has taken to correct the issue with Mr Os online access.
Online access issues
Aviva told this service that its IT team had continued to monitor Mr Os online activity very 
closely. But that it hadnt found any issues. It also said that Mr O had successfully logged 
into his online account from the UK with no issues in January 2023. And that from what it 
had seen, his successful log in activity had continued. It said he had logged in successfully 
several times from two other countries. It also said that these successful log ins had all taken 
place despite nothing really changing from its end, although it acknowledged that its 
systems/software did routinely go through fortnightly updates/releases. And that these might 
unknowingly have corrected Mr Os previous access issues. 
Aviva has also provided this service with evidence that Mr O has had no recorded issues 
with his online access since February 2023. 
Therefore, although I acknowledge that Mr O is still unsure that the problem has been 
resolved, the evidence shows that his online access is now working. 
I next considered if Avivas offer of financial redress was fair. 
Offer of loss calculation
Aviva said that Mr O didnt initially tell it about his concerns that he couldnt trade using his 
online access. And that if he had told it at the time hed first raised a complaint, it couldve 
set out his other options. 
From what Ive seen, Mr Os initial contact was only about his service concerns. He didnt 
mention any switches he hadnt been able to make. But, shortly after his online access had 
resumed, he did make a switch request. 
Aviva suggested a number of actions Mr O could take to try to restore full access to his 
online account, but he didnt think it should be necessary for him to take such steps.
Mr O wasnt happy with any of the alternative solutions Aviva suggested. I understand that 
none of the suggestions wouldve been as practical for him as the online access he 
preferred. But, while I can see why Mr O wanted his online access fixed, Im of the view that 
Aviva did provide reasonable options for him to use while his online access wasnt working 
properly. I say this because Ive not seen any reason why Mr O couldnt have used the 
suggested options to manage his pension. And because the terms and conditions of his 
pension plan with Aviva didnt guarantee online access. 
While I appreciate that Mr O was unhappy that his online access wasnt working, and felt 
that Aviva should fix it, I also consider that Mr O couldve done more to help it to do so. He 
couldve tried to follow the steps it suggested to help him get his access back.  
Mr O did clearly want to make a switch at some point in August/September 2022. Aviva has 
offered to treat this switch as if hed made the request at the earliest point he contacted it, 31 August 2022. 
I have no evidence that Mr O wouldve made other switches, but for the issue with his online 
access. So I cant reasonably hold Aviva liable for any further switches. Therefore Im 
satisfied that Avivas offer is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
Mr O also complained that Aviva should reimburse him for the monthly fees he paid it 
throughout the period he didnt have online access to his account. He said this was from 
August 2022 to January 2023. So Ive gone on to consider whether Aviva should do so.
Should Aviva compensate Mr O for the service charge?
Mr O said that he was paying Aviva annual fees of 1% of his fund, but that he received no 
service. 
Aviva said that it offers online access as an additional service, not as part of the terms and 
conditions of Mr Os pension plan. It acknowledged that online access was very important for 
Mr O, given his circumstances, but said there were still other ways for him to manage his 
pension. 
Aviva said it offered various media forms, such as online forms, live chat, the option of 
sending a secure message request, as well as the usual telephone and email methods. And 
that Mr O wouldnt have needed to be logged into his online account to request fund 
information from it through any of these channels. It also said he could access all fund data 
through its general online fund centre, without needing to be logged into his online account. 
And that he could then have made a switch request either over the phone, or by email, once 
hed researched his fund choices and made a decision.
Unless terms and conditions explicitly include them, online services aren't a right. Nor are 
they explicitly included as part of the 1% fee Mr O pays Aviva. This is used to cover fund 
management and operations. 
From what Ive seen, the terms and conditions for Mr Os plan dont specifically make 
reference to online access. So I cant fairly conclude that part of the 1% charge is used to 
ensure online access is provided. 
In any event, although the online service wasnt available to Mr O for a period of time, he still 
had other ways he could manage his plan, as Ive outlined above. Therefore, I cant fairly ask 
Aviva to reimburse Mr O any part of the 1% charge. 
I finally considered if Avivas offer of compensation for the distress and inconvenience the 
lack of access caused Mr O.
Distress and inconvenience
Aviva has offered Mr O a total of £300 for the inconvenience and frustration the lack of 
online access caused him.
I agree with our investigator that, while it isnt in doubt that hes been caused distress and 
inconvenience, an award of £300 is fair in this case. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Avivas settlement offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint. And, although I uphold the complaint, I dont require Aviva to change its 
settlement offer.Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must ensure that Mr Os pension is put back into the 
position it wouldve been in if the switch request had been received on 31 August 2022, 
rather than 23 September 2022. It should also provide Mr O with a clear explanation of how 
it has ensured that his pension is now back to the correct position. 
Aviva must also pay Mr O a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
the lack of online access caused him. If it has already paid any of the offered compensation, 
it can deduct the amount previously paid from the payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
must take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman