DRN-3052645
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around February 2015, Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system to be installed at his home. Following a 
visit from a representative of P, Mr S decided to buy the system and finance it through a 15-
year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In May 2019 the CMC made a claim on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made to Mr S:
The total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £7,736.19 to 
mislead Mr S  this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, so the 
true cost was £13,226.16. 
Mr S was promised a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £1,322.64. This didnt take into 
account that, after making his loan repayments, Mr S had an actual annual deficit of 
£795.14. 
The credit agreement would be self-funded by the feed-in tariff (or FIT) payments 
alone. 
The system would not cost him a penny. 
He would make savings on his electricity bills.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said that the misleading 
representations made by P about the systems expected performance created an unfair 
relationship between Mr S and Shawbrook.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided: a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) dated December
2013; copies of marketing material used by P; a job advert for P; the loan agreement with 
Shawbrook; and some of Mr Ss electricity bills and FIT statements.
Shawbrook investigated the complaint and explained that the point of sale documentation 
made it clear that the system would not be self-funding.
Unhappy with this response, the CMC referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the information and 
evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to Mr 
S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
P had not sent the quote to Mr S; 
the quote was unsigned which substantiates that Mr S had not seen a copy of this 
document; and
the wrong electricity rate was used to calculate the electricity savings which means the 
benefits were inflated.
The investigator also contacted Mr S for his recollections. Mr S told us:
Ps representative said the system would pay for itself within 10 years. 
The cost of the system was £10,200. The average payment to him has been only just 
over £500 a year, meaning it will take twice as long as that for the system to pay for 
itself. 
He was told that 16 panels would produce enough electricity. 
He was told a new power station, expected to come on line in 2024, would be allowed to 
charge 24p a kilowatt, so the panels would save him more money after the system had 
been paid for. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services paid for using credit. Section 75(1) 
says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the
debtor.
As Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This says:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under
the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and matters
relating to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Mr Ss solar quote, entitled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Ss recollection of the sale.
In response to the investigators assessment, CMC told us that Mr S didnt receive or sign 
the quote. Shawbrook has provided detailed information explaining Ps sale processes. This 
detailed that Ps sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers by email, 
shortly after the initial meeting. Based on our experience of what we have seen with similar 
complaints, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, P sent this document to Mr S. 
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The FIT payments
Mr S has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by his FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what he says he was told as I consider the quote was 
central to the sales presentation.Page five of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr S could expect to receive by way of 
FIT payments from the system. This is split into two tables. The first shows the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income over 20 
years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 years 
and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, make clear that Mr S could expect to receive 
a total income in year one of £451.99 from his FIT.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr S could expect from the system as 
well as any savings he would make from taking out any optional extras including a voltage 
optimiser. The expected year one electricity saving is £212.72 and the combined income and 
saving in year one is shown as £767.57. This is shown in a table entitled Putting it all 
together.
There is a page entitled system performance and returns with a series of tables. Theres a 
section called PSP scheme: repayments options. This has three tables set out over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr S entered with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 180 
monthly payments of £110.22 due and compares the overall expected grand total from the 
system, averaged over a monthly basis, against the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to his monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income Mr S could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income, along with any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to 
cover his monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not persuaded that he was told that his 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Total cost of the system and expected benefits
Mr S has said through the CMC that the cost of the system was documented as £7,736.19 
and that this was done to mislead him as this figure did not include any interest associated 
with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £13,226.16.
The CMC has explained that the total cost of the system was £7,736.19 and with interest is 
£13,226.16. It also said that the tax-free year one benefit is £1,322.64. I cant find these 
figures in the point of sale documentation provided and the CMCs letter also refers to a 
different consumers name. Therefore, I have disregarded these figures and focused on the 
point of sale documentation.
The quote provided to Mr S makes it clear that the cost of the system is £10,180.00. His own 
recollection was that it was around £10,200. This is supported by the credit agreement which 
sets out that the total amount of credit is £10,180.00 and goes on to show that the total 
amount payable would be £19,639.60.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £10,180, it would cost Mr 
S more than this as he had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr P that the system would not cost him a penny, and that 
he could expect to receive a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £664.71.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system 
compared with the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible 
format comparing the two.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr S was expected to have made a 
loss of £46.25 a month and in the second year this would decrease to a loss of £42.93 a 
month. It wouldnt be until year 12 that the expected benefits would exceed the monthly loan 
repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt have been until after the loan was repaid that 
Mr S would have sufficiently recouped any previous annual losses and the system would be 
paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
and Im unable to conclude that Mr S was told that the system would not cost him a penny. I 
think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Mr S was told that hed receive a year one benefit of £664.71 as this was the 
expected combined income from FIT payments and electricity savings on his energy bills. 
Having said that, taking into account the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr S 
was led to believe that hed receive this sum in his hand. Im satisfied that the quote makes it 
clear that hed have to make loan repayments and overall there would be a deficit.
I also accept that Mr S was told by P that the system would pay for itself over 17 years. The 
system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the performance 
over 20 years.
This shows that by year 17 the overall benefits that Mr S could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under his loan agreement. This table also sets out the 
panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that P made him aware that performance of the 
system would deteriorate over its lifetime. 
As Ive set out above, I believe P told Mr S that the system would pay for itself by year 17, as 
supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact and I were satisfied 
that this was what induced Mr S to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a 
loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr S. The quote said that the system was expected to produce 
2,778.88 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT payments 
and savings in their energy bills that Mr S could expect to receive.
Ive calculated that the system should generate 7.61 kWh of energy each day. The closing 
meter reading on 13 September 2018 was 9,943.65 kWh which equates to 7.92 kWh a day. 
This is slightly higher than the estimates provided at the point of sale.
Ive gone on to consider whether P overstated the potential income and savings Mr S could 
expect to receive by, for example by using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote that P provided to Mr S was personalised to his specific circumstances and used 
a number of underlying assumptions to calculate the income and benefits he could expect to 
receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected annual 
generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy generated by the system that Mr P 
would use rather than buying it from his energy provider (leading to savings on his energy 
bills) and the expected increase in utility prices alongside the expected annual increase in 
RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI were based on the Office of 
National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote.
The quote sets out that Mr S was expected to use, or self-consume, 50% of the kWh 
generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual saving of 
£212.72. This amount of saving would increase each year in line with the ONS data Ive 
mentioned above.
When setting the percentage of electricity that a consumer would be paid for exporting to the 
National Grid the Government set a rate of 50%. This implies that a consumer would self-
consume or use the remaining 50%. It is my view that a self-consumption rate of 50%, the 
amount Mr P could save on his electricity bills, would be fair basis for calculating the benefits 
of a particular system.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy that Mr S were expected to self-consume were 
both reasonable assumptions for P to have made.
When estimating the future income and electricity savings that Mr S could expect to receive 
from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line with the 
available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases was 8.42% 
and for RPI was 2.92%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 2015 to 
2020 to see whether both energy prices and RPI have increased in line with the estimates 
provided by P. The data from the ONS suggests that energy prices have increased by 3.7% 
and RPI by 2.56% a year. Both of these figures are lower than the assumptions used by P 
and in my view explain why Mr S isnt receiving the financial returns from the system that he 
may have expected.
The assumptions used by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS from 2004 to 2013. Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate the expected financial returns from the system. Im of the 
view that this goes some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding by year 
17. Although I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by the financial returns from his system, Im satisfied that this isnt due to P using unreasonable assumptions when he entered into 
the contract for the system.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court might conclude that there is an unfair relationship 
under s140A the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has said that it 
paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation and Im 
of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a court is 
unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under the Act.
Further considerations
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that not all the evidence it had provided 
had been taken into consideration. This included the marketing literature used by P along 
with the findings of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel 
hearing from December 2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant conclude that 
this was provided to Mr S, or that it relates to the time his panels were sold. Whilst it does 
refer to the system paying for itself and being self-funding, Im not persuaded I can place 
much weight on this, especially when considered along with Mr Ss personalised quote. And, 
as I have explained above, at the time Mr S entered into the contract with P Im satisfied that 
their system would have been self-funding and pay for itself by year 17 from installation.
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013, over a year before Mr 
S entered into the contract with P. Shawbrook has also provided information from Trading 
Standards, setting out that it had been working with P since the findings to improve Ps sales 
process. This work included Trading Standards helping P to enhance their business 
paperwork and documentation to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation. This has 
ultimately led to P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC findings found concerns with Ps sales practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved before Mr S bought his system. I have to take account of the particular 
circumstances of this case, along with the wider, contemporaneous evidence.
The CMC responded to the view and explained that the wrong electricity rate had been used 
to calculate the electricity savings which means the benefits have been inflated. The CMC 
has not explained what electricity rate it thinks should have been used.
P assumed that Mr S has a 15.31p unit price of electricity at the point of sale and a current 
monthly electricity cost of £60 then used this to calculate future savings. Shawbrook has 
explained that P used 15.31p as this was the average consumer tariff at the point of sale. It 
also explained that it asked Mr S what his current electricity costs were at the point of sale in 
order to estimate the savings in the future.
The investigator requested electricity bills pre and post installation, but the CMC explained 
that these were not available. Therefore, I have been unable to see exactly how much Mr Ss 
bills reduced but I think that Ps method of calculating the savings was reasonable.Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im not 
persuaded that there were any untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to 
enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman