DRN-3985132
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC has refused to refund the money he lost after falling 
victim to a bank impersonation scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In August 2021, while on holiday abroad, Mr B received a call from what he thought was 
his banks fraud department, but actually turned out to be a scammer. The scammer 
knew all about his account with Lloyds  likely because Mr B had responded to a 
phishing scam the day before  and used scare tactics to extract security information 
from Mr B and persuade him to part with all of his money. Mr Bs money was moved from 
his Lloyds account to an account his partner held with another provider and then on to 
the scammer.
£25,000 was paid away as result of this scam. The receiving bank managed to recover 
£6,500 and Mr Bs partner returned that money to him in December 2021. Lloyds has 
also already refunded £1,405.54 relating to an overdraft that the scammer applied for 
without Mr Bs consent. So the remaining loss is £17,094.46.
Mr B complained to Lloyds and it offered to refund the first £3,500 transfer because it 
had been made by the scammer without Mr Bs consent. But the bank says Mr B didnt 
accept this because it wouldve meant a marker being added to his partners account to 
show it had received fraudulent funds. Lloyds refused to refund any of the other 
transactions because it said they werent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code. Mr B remained unhappy and asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigators thought all the disputed payments were covered by the Code and that 
Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing he was speaking with a genuine bank 
employee and making legitimate transactions. The bank disagreed, so the case has 
come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Does the CRM Code apply to these disputed payments?
The starting point is that, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his 
account, Mr B is liable for transactions hes authorised or otherwise consented to. But these 
transactions took place after Lloyds signed up to the Lending Standards Boards (LSBs) 
voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the Code). And, under the Code, 
Lloyds has made a commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams except in limited circumstances.
Lloyds says the Code doesnt apply in this case, but I disagree. When reaching this decision 
Ive taken into account the wording of the Code, as it stood at the time in question. And also 
the LSBs comments about the interpretation of that wording in its November 2021 
publication Call for Input: Findings Report. 
In that report, the LSB talks about multigeneration APP scams and describes the situation 
which Mr B found himself in  being persuaded to transfer money from his Lloyds account on 
to an account held in his partners name with another provider and then on to the scammer. 
The report also says the investigation of such multigeneration scams is captured within the 
scope of the CRM Code and cites the existing code wording in support of this. So I dont 
accept Lloyds suggestion that the comments in the report are merely guidance and cannot 
be applied to claims made prior to the report being published.
The disputed transactions that led to this complaint are ones Mr B made to his partner, 
under the misapprehension he was acting under the instruction of his bank to secure his 
money. So Im satisfied those payments meet the definition within the Code of an APP scam 
 Mr B transferred these funds to another person for what he believed were legitimate 
purposes, but which were in fact fraudulent. 
The losses in this case have been sustained by Mr B, and originated in the payment journey 
between Mr Bs Lloyds account and his partners account. Mr B has suffered a financial loss 
through an APP scam, and a type of APP scam that the LSB says is captured within the 
scope of the Code. His partner hasnt suffered a financial loss, and I dont consider that the 
use of her account as a conduit to the scammer fundamentally changed the form of the APP 
scam that Mr B fell victim to. I accept the techniques used by the scammer in this case were 
deliberately intended to evade Lloyds fraud detection and prevention systems. But that 
doesnt mean the Code shouldnt apply or that Lloyds shouldnt be liable to reimburse Mr B.
Everyone accepts that the first payment of £3,500 was made by the scammer, rather than 
Mr B, and Lloyds has already offered to refund this amount. Its also refunded a little over 
£1,400  slightly more than the final payment Mr B sent  because the scammer applied for 
an overdraft without Mr Bs consent. So Ive gone on to consider whether Lloyds ought to 
have reimbursed Mr B for the remaining losses hes incurred.
Did Mr B have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
Although Lloyds doesnt believe the Code applies in this case theyve also suggested Mr B 
made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing he was protecting his money. 
This is one of the exceptions for reimbursement listed in the Code. 
I would first say that I think Mr B has been consistent and plausible in his recollection of 
events. And I think the tactics used by the scammer in this case were relatively sophisticated 
and persuasive. This involved an initial phishing attack which seems to have been used as a 
way to gather Mr Bs personal information that the scammer then used in the main scam call the following day. And that call used phone number spoofing to mimic the banks real phone 
number. 
Mr B tells us he was on an overseas holiday, on the way to the shops, when he received the 
call so he was caught off-guard, without internet access. This meant he couldnt immediately 
check his account using the mobile banking facility but was able to do so once he got to the 
shop, which had wi-fi. The scammer already had enough information about Mr Bs account 
from the phishing scam to be able to convince him it was the bank calling. And I can 
understand why he accepted their instruction to disclose a genuine one-time passcode that 
was sent to his mobile phone but initiated by the scammer. I also note that although the bank 
sent some text messages asking him to get in touch, he already thought he was speaking 
with the bank and these messages didnt include any warnings about possible scams. So Im 
not surprised that they didnt make Mr B think twice about accepting what the scammer was 
telling him.
Lloyds records also suggest the text messages that asked Mr B to get in touch with regards 
to the payments he was making were all sent after he made the final payment. And its 
concerning to me that Lloyds allowed Mr B to continue making payments when it had 
concerns and hadnt received responses from Mr B  but Ill further address the banks 
obligations later in this decision.
Lloyds has questioned why Mr B believed what the scammer said about the need to move 
his money on from his partners account. And I agree, given time and the benefit of 
hindsight, that this recommendation doesn't entirely make sense. But Mr B believed he was 
speaking with a genuine bank employee who was helping him to protect his money and 
stressing the urgency of prompt action. In the particular circumstances of this complaint, I 
can see why Mr B followed their instructions. 
Under the terms of the Code, the victim of an APP scam such as this should be reimbursed 
unless the bank is able to establish that one (or more) of the exceptions to reimbursement 
can be applied. Im not persuaded that Lloyds has done so and it follows that the bank 
should have reimbursed Mr B under the terms of the Code.
Did Lloyds meet its obligations under the Code?
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds met its standards under the Code which include the 
provision of effective warnings when the bank identifies a scam risk. On the one hand, 
Lloyds seems to be suggesting that it didnt identify a scam risk, mainly because all of the 
disputed transactions were sent to an existing payee. But it also says it sent a number of 
texts to Mr B querying why he was changing his security details and asking him to get in 
touch in relation to the payment he was making. 
I dont dispute that it can be more difficult for a bank to identify a scam risk when the 
payments are being sent to an existing payee. I think thats precisely why scammers choose 
to employ this tactic. But, in this case, I think there are other relevant considerations which 
ought to have alerted the bank that Mr B might be being scammed.
In particular, although Mr B did regularly send money to his partner, all of the disputed 
transactions were for considerably higher values and were made in very rapid succession. A 
total of seven transfers were made, totalling £25,000 in the space of 30 minutes, which more 
than cleared the account balance. Mr B didnt usually make transfers of this amount to 
anyone and this pattern of activity is typical of impersonation/safe account scams. 
It also seems, from the banks audit trail, that the first transaction was undertaken using a 
phone that wasnt Mr Bs. His security details were changed, possibly more than once, before the payments started. And the second and subsequent transactions were carried out 
from a different IP address than the first transaction. 
In the circumstances, I think Lloyds should have identified a scam risk and should have 
provided effective warnings. As the bank failed to meet its obligations under the Code I think 
it should be required to refund the money Mr B lost.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, I think Lloyds Bank PLC should:
Refund £17,094.46 to Mr B.
Add interest on the above refund calculated at 8%pa simple from the date the claim 
was declined  which appears to be 25 February 2022  to the date settlement is 
made.
If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the interest award, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to settle the 
matter as set out above.
Lloyds should settle the matter within 28 days of receiving notification of Mr Bs acceptance 
of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman