DRN-2627181
The complaint
Mr O complains about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited dealt with a claim against his 
medical insurance. Reference to AXA includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
Mr O is a member of a group private medical insurance scheme with AXA. 
In May 2020, Mr O went to A&E about significant pain in his right wrist and hand. Mr O 
said that hed had the pain since March 2020. An x-ray didnt show a fracture and he 
was given a splint to immobilise his wrist. A few days later, Mr O went back to A&E. The 
doctor he saw recommended an MRI scan but said that it couldnt be done at that 
hospital because of Covid-19. 
On 27 May 2020, Mr O phoned AXA three times. Ill refer to those phone calls in more 
detail below. On 28 May 2020, AXA sent Mr O notification of a remote appointment with 
a consultant on 29 May 2020. Mr O says that during the remote consultation, the 
consultant said he needed an MRI scan and suggested a hospital which Mr O thought 
was too far away. Mr O says that the consultant said that Mr Os preferred hospital was 
closed because of Covid-19 and that he would call back in order to tell Mr O which 
hospital to attend. 
Mr O says that on 1 June 2020, he called the consultant, as he hadnt heard from him. 
The consultant told Mr O that he hadnt found a suitable hospital for his MRI scan. Mr O 
contacted his preferred hospital himself and it told him that it could carry out an MRI 
scan but that it needed authorisation from AXA.  
On 2 June 2020, Mr O contacted AXA, asked for authorisation and complained about the 
consultant AXA had arranged for him. AXA first said that Mr O should tell the consultant 
that his preferred hospital was taking patients, but Mr O objected to that course of action. 
AXA then authorised an MRI scan. Later that day, Mr O had an MRI scan at his 
preferred hospital. 
On 3 June 2020, AXA sent Mr O confirmation of an appointment on 4 June 2020 with the 
same consultant Mr O had dealt with before in order to discuss the results of his MRI 
scan. Mr O didnt want to deal with that consultant again. I understand that he 
subsequently sought treatment from the NHS. 
Mr O says that he was a long-established policy holder with AXA and paid a significant 
monthly premium, but he had to do everything himself. He said that AXA sent him a 
letter in May 2020 which said that it was still pre-authorising eligible claims during the      
Covid-19 crisis. Mr O wants AXA to reimburse at least one years premium. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that in one of Mr Os 
phone calls with AXA, it hadnt explained what he needed to do to get authorisation for 
an MRI scan. The investigator said that AXA wasnt responsible for any poor service    
Mr O received from the consultant but that it could have dealt with his concerns about 
the consultant differently and arranged an alternative, given the concerns Mr O had 
raised. 
The investigator thought that compensation of £100 was fair. She said that Mr O needed 
the MRI scan urgently in order to determine what was causing the pain in his wrist and 
AXAs actions delayed Mr O getting an MRI scan and caused him stress.
Neither Mr O nor AXA agreed with the investigator. Mr O said that the compensation 
suggested by the investigator wasnt sufficient. He said hed paid premiums for more 
than 30 years and made only one claim 20 years ago. Mr O said that in order to have the 
MRI scan he needed to find a hospital himself and book the appointment. He said that 
AXA didnt provide a service. Mr O said that the hospital had written to him saying that 
AXA had only paid in part and asking him to pay the balance, after AXA told him that it 
had paid his claim in full.
AXA said that it gave Mr O clear information about the referral process and that it didnt 
delay the MRI scan. It said that Mr O first contacted it on 27 May 2020, he had a 
consultation with a specialist on 29 May 2020, an MRI scan on 2 June 2020 and a 
follow-up consultation on 4 June 2020. So, it didnt think that it caused Mr O 
inconvenience or stress.
Both Mr O and AXA asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed 
to me to decide. 
In response to the investigators view, Mr O raised concerns about AXAs payment of 
only part of an invoice for the MRI scan. That didnt form part of Mr Os initial complaint 
to AXA, so it hasnt had an opportunity to respond to it. That means I cant deal with 
those concerns here. If Mr O remains concerned about that matter, he should raise it 
with AXA in the first instance. In this decision, Im dealing with Mr Os complaint about 
AXAs handling of a referral for an MRI scan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and Ill explain why:
Ive listened to Mr Os phone calls with AXA. In Mr Os first phone call with AXA on  
27 May 2020, I dont think the information AXA provided to Mr O about the process of 
referral was sufficiently clear. Whilst it mentioned that it couldnt accept a GP referral 
for a scan, AXA didnt make it clear that the process is that a GP refers Mr O to a 
specialist (but not a radiologist) and the specialist could then recommend that Mr O 
has an MRI scan. 
The position was made clear in Mr Os second call to AXA on the same day. But by 
then, Mr O had been put to the trouble of asking his GP to provide a referral that 
couldnt lead to the outcome he wanted.
Mr O has referred to the letter AXA sent him in May 2020, which set out what it was 
doing for members in the Covid-19 crisis. That letter didnt say that Mr O no longer 
needed a referral: it said that AXA was still pre-authorising eligible claims. As the investigator has explained, AXA isnt responsible for the actions of the 
consultant, so I dont make any comment on Mr Os allegations that the consultant 
told him, incorrectly, that his preferred hospital was closed and didnt contact him with 
a suggestion for an alternative hospital. 
I agree with AXA that referring Mr O to a second consultant in order to discuss the 
results of the MRI scan would have caused delay. But based on what Ive seen and 
heard, AXA didnt explain that to Mr O at the time. 
I dont think that AXAs errors caused Mr O significant delay: Mr O first contacted 
AXA about this matter on 27 May 2020 and had an MRI scan on 2 June 2020. But  
Mr O is right to say that the process was more difficult than it should have been. Mr O 
had to phone AXA several times for what should have been a straight forward claim.  
In deciding a fair level of compensation, we look at how AXAs errors affected Mr O. 
Here, Mr O made additional phone calls to both AXA and his GP because the initial 
information AXA provided wasnt clear. And he was upset to be directed to the 
original consultant in order to discuss the results of the MRI scan and it wasnt 
explained to him that doing otherwise would cause unnecessary delay. Considering 
everything, I think that fair compensation is £100. Theres no basis on which I could 
fairly direct AXA to pay more than that or to reimburse Mr Os annual premium.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I think that AXA should pay Mr O compensation of £100 in 
relation to his distress and inconvenience.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint. AXA PPP Healthcare Limited should now 
pay Mr O compensation of £100 in relation to his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman