DRN-2080298
The complaint
Miss A complains that her Lloyds Bank Plcs accounts were visible and accessible to her 
sister via online banking. She says she was also able to view and access her sisters 
accounts. Miss A has been offered compensation to resolve her complaint but is unhappy 
with the amount.
What happened
Miss A holds a number of accounts with Lloyds, which include a current account, ISA and 
credit card.
On 10 June 2020 she telephoned Lloyds to complain that her accounts were visible and 
accessible to her sister via online banking. She also said she was able to view and access 
her sisters accounts when she logged onto her online banking. Miss A said she was 
concerned her account may have also been accessible to other third parties who could have 
gained access to the funds in her account. And she said Lloyds had breached data 
protection legislation and its duty to keep her accounts confidential and secure.
During that telephone call Lloyds took immediate action to prevent Miss A and her sister 
from being able to view each others accounts. It suspended their online access until it was 
able to rectify the problem affecting their accounts. It also applied restrictions to their 
telephone banking. 
Lloyds told Miss A that her and her sister had been able to view each others account due to 
a system malfunction. It said their accounts had been incorrectly linked and it had taken 
immediate action to prevent that error happening in the future. 
Lloyds apologised for what had happened and offered to resolve Miss As complaint Lloyds 
by paying her £250 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset shed experienced. But 
she declined that offer and wanted a higher amount. 
Lloyds wasnt willing to increase the compensation it had offered. So, Miss A referred her 
complaint to our service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Miss A and 
Lloyds but didnt recommend upholding this complaint. They thought Lloyds had dealt with 
Miss As complaint fairly. And they thought the compensation it offered to resolve this 
complaint was reasonable in the circumstances. But Miss A disagreed with the investigators 
view of her complaint. She felt more compensation should be awarded and said a different 
investigator within our service had recommended that Lloyds increase the compensation it 
had offered her sister when she complained to us. So, the matters been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss A experienced here. I can see how strongly she 
feels about her complaint. But, having thought about everything she and Lloyds have said, 
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I appreciate Miss A will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Miss A has drawn our investigators attention to the outcome of the complaint her sister 
referred to our service about what happened. But while I understand why Miss A would be 
keen for me to be aware of the outcome of her sisters complaint we look at the individual 
circumstances of each complaint we receive to decide what we think is the fairest way to 
resolve it. That almost inevitably means that cases which might be similar to a complaint 
made by another customer could well result in quite different outcomes. And our service 
wouldnt consider another individuals resolution to be a precedent or comment on it.
Miss A has raised concerns that Lloyds error breached data protection legislation. I can see 
that our investigators already signposted Miss A to the Information Commissioners Office 
should she wish to pursue this issue further. 
Our investigator was right to say the ICO is better placed than this service to look at an 
organisations handling of personal data because its not our role to decide whether a breach 
of data protection has taken place. So, our service wont make a finding on this issue as it 
falls outside our jurisdiction. And this means I wont be commenting on this part of Miss As 
complaint within this decision.
Lloyds has already accepted responsibility for what happened. So, the issue here is whether 
it acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right. In thinking about this, Ive 
considered things from both sides. 
Im satisfied that an award of compensation is warranted given what happened here. Lloyds 
has already offered to compensate Miss A £250 for the impact its error had. Its clear Miss A 
doesnt think the offer Lloyds has made adequately reflects her distress and inconvenience. 
But Im afraid I have to tell her that I agree with our investigators view that £250 is a fair 
amount of compensation for the trouble and upset she suffered. Ill explain why.
As our investigator has already explained our service isnt here to punish businesses. When 
deciding what potential compensation to award our service must take two things into 
account: financial loss as a result of any business error and non-financial loss, including 
inconvenience and upset. 
I understand Miss A hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of Lloyds error, which is 
fortunate. In those circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or impartial of me to tell Lloyds to pay 
financial loss or compensation for something that didnt happen.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions have had 
on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether compensation 
would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Its clear to me that Miss As experience here went beyond mere irritation. Shes told our 
service she was caused distress and worry by what happened. And I dont dispute that. 
Its bound to have caused Miss A concern that account could have been accessed by third 
parties other than her sister. But I think thats unlikely to have happened as Lloyds system 
incorrectly merged her accounts with her sisters accounts. I can see Miss A and her sister 
share similar names, have the same date of birth and live at the same address, which might explain why their accounts were merged in error here. Theres no evidence that any other 
third parties were able to view and access Miss As account, which I hope reassures her.
I understand Miss A didnt have accounts with other banking institutions. So, it must have 
been distressing for her to think her accounts had been compromised. I can see she told our 
investigator she wasnt able to attend a branch to discuss her concerns regarding the 
security of her account due to the Covid-19 restrictions. This all must have added to the 
worry she felt here.
I recognise that Miss A would have had to spend some time contacting Lloyds to understand 
what had led to her and her sisters accounts were visible to each other. And Ive thought 
about the length of time it took for this issue to be resolved. 
I can see Miss A raised a complaint with Lloyds by telephone on 10 June 2020. The record 
Lloyds has provided our service of this telephone call shows it took immediate action to 
prevent Miss A and her sister from being able to view each others accounts. It suspended 
both of their online access until it was able to rectify the problem affecting their accounts. It 
also applied restrictions to their telephone banking. I think the measures taken by Lloyds 
were sensible and reasonable.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds error was resolved relatively 
easily and quickly. Miss A didnt need to spend a great deal of time communicating with 
Lloyds about the issues affecting her and her sisters accounts. And Im satisfied Lloyds 
accepted responsibility for its error quickly and candidly from the outset. 
Lloyds said what happened was an isolated system malfunction and Miss A has confirmed it 
hasnt happened since. Im therefore satisfied that the problem affecting Miss As accounts 
didnt persist. And, while Miss A has told our investigator she has concerns this may happen 
again, Im persuaded Lloyds has taken reasonable steps to prevent this error from 
happening in the future. 
I can see that Miss A told our investigator that, through Lloyds error, her sister became 
aware she had a Help to Buy ISA. Shes explained that this caused conflict within her family 
and the reasons why. 
Ive carefully thought about everything Miss As said about this. But Im persuaded the 
compensation Lloyds offered already recognises the impact of what happened. I say this 
because, in considering whether the £250 Lloyds offered was fair here, Ive taken the fact 
that Miss As sister was able to see all the accounts she holds with Lloyds into account. This 
includes her Help to Buy ISA.
I can understand how inconvenient all of this was for Miss A. And its only right that Lloyds 
recognises this. That said, Im satisfied £250 is a fair amount of compensation thats 
proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Miss A wouldve been caused here. Its in 
line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what I would have told Lloyds to pay. 
Ive taken on board all of Miss As comments about what happened. And I understand she 
feels very strongly about the issues raised in her complaint. I appreciate she wants Lloyds to 
pay more compensation. But I havent seen enough to persuade me that a higher award is 
warranted here. So, Lloyds should pay Miss A £250 compensation to resolve her complaint. 
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve her dispute with Lloyds informally, 
can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Miss A any further with this.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc has made an offer to 
pay £250 compensation to resolve Miss As complaint. I conclude that such an offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc should pay 
Miss A £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman