DRN-1986476
The complaint
Mrs S says Bentley & Bentley Limited (trading as Skipton Ford) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs S bought PPI in 2010 during a meeting when she took out a hire purchase agreement 
for a car. It gave her accident, sickness, unemployment and some life cover. She paid a 
monthly amount for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs S disagreed so 
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was discussed in the meeting, but Ive looked carefully at the 
paperwork from the sale. PPI was detailed on the credit agreement in a section 
headed Optional Payment Protection Plan. The cost was set out separately to the 
cost of the credit. And Mrs S signed this separate section indicating she wanted to 
take out the cover. So I think Skipton Ford made it clear the PPI was optional and 
Mrs S agreed to take it out.
Skipton Ford recommended the cover to Mrs S, so it had to make sure it was right for 
her. Based on what I know of her circumstances at the time it seems it was. Mrs S 
told us she was entitled to between three and six months sick pay. The PPI would 
have paid out in addition to this and for much longer  up to the 36-month term of the 
agreement if needed. It also gave her unemployment cover for up to 12 months in a 
single claim. Mrs S said she had savings worth less than three months salary. The 
PPI would have allowed her to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not 
working, or to keep them intact for her future needs. Overall, I think the PPI would 
have been useful for Mrs S if she was sick, had an accident or lost her job.
Its possible Skipton Ford didnt given Mrs S all the information she needed to make 
an informed decision. The cost was set out clearly on the hire purchase agreement, 
and it was competitively priced and apparently affordable. But I dont know at what 
stage Mrs S was given information on the main exclusions and limitations. However, 
it seems she wasnt affected by them so I dont think better information would have 
changed her decision.
It follows I dont think Mrs S has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman