The complaint
Mr M complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to 
lend him money.
What happened 
Mr Lender provided five loans to Mr M. Heres a loan table showing further details:
Loans Date TakenDate
Repaid Instalments AmountMaximum
Repayment
1 31/03/2014 30/07/2014 1 £200.00 £270.00
2 04/08/2014 30/10/2014 1 £250.00 £325.00
3 14/11/2014 30/01/2015 1 £160.00 £208.00
4 02/02/2015 30/03/2015 1 £200.00 £236.80
5 06/05/2015 loan sold to 
debt collector 
and now paid3 £500.00 £254.66
Mr M complained to us that Mr Lender gave him unaffordable loans that it shouldve seen 
werent affordable if proper checks had been done. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ms complaint. She thought Mr Lender shouldnt have 
provided loans 3-5 to Mr M. Our adjudicator set out the steps she said Mr Lender should do 
to put things right.  
Mr Lender disagreed. So as the complaint hasnt been resolved it comes to me for a final 
decision.
What I've decided - and why 
DRN-1919462Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Mr Lender to give Mr M loans 1 and 2 on 
the basis of the information he gave about his income and outgoings and what it knew about 
his financial situation at the time from the credit checks it did.It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Mr Lender 
to agree to lend. 
As Mr M hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to 
loans 1and 2, I dont think that I need to say more about these.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, like the adjudicator, I think that by loan 3 
Mr Lender shouldve realised that further lending was likely to be unsustainable for Mr M. 
I say this because at this point:
Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr M had shown clear signs that he wasnt 
managing to repay his loans sustainably. Although hed managed to repay loan 1, 
Mr M had needed to defer (rollover) repayments on loan 1 three times in total and 
hed also twice deferred making full payments on loan 2.
 
to my mind, this record of multiple rollovers was indicative of money problems, 
especially bearing in mind what Mr M had told Mr Lender about his monthly income 
and his living arrangements, which meant he wasnt responsible for paying any 
household bills
 
there were only short gaps between loans  just five days between loans 1 and 2 and 
Mr M took out loan 3 just two weeks or so after paying loan 2
 
Given the information that Mr Lender had recorded for Mr M about his finances and 
his living arrangements, I think Mr Lender shouldve enquired further to obtain a 
proper understanding of his financial situation as the information it had gathered so 
far appeared at odds with his borrowing 
 
Mr Lender hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a 
proportionate check before agreeing to lend Mr M loan 3 
 
Mr M has provided his credit file and bank statements so Ive looked through the 
information hes sent us to see what Mr Lender was likely to have found out. And had 
Mr Lender looked in more depth at Mr Ms finances it would likely have seen that he 
was facing serious problems managing his money and not apparently using the loans 
for the purposes they were intended for. 
 
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to think that it was likely 
Mr M would be able sustainably to repay loan 3  or any further lending. So it 
shouldnt have provided this loan or any of the loans that followed. 
 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point 
was reached by loan 4. I say this because:by the time he took out loan 4 hed been more or less continuously indebted to 
Mr Lender for around 10 months
 
Mr M wasnt making any significant inroads into the amount he owed Mr Lender - 
each time he repaid a loan he borrowed again shortly afterwards
 
I think Mr Lender ought to have realised it was likely that Mr M was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances each 
time and that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably
 
so when he asked for loan 4, I think Mr Lender ought to have realised that (despite 
what hed told Mr Lender) Mr M wasnt likely to be borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need.
 
Ive taken into account that Mr Lender says it did affordability checks and asked Mr M what 
he needed the loans for. But for the reasons lve explained, I think that the information he 
provided was clearly at odds with his borrowing history and so it couldnt reasonably have 
been relied on. 
I think that Mr M lost out when Mr Lender provided loan 4 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time 
 
the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to have negative implications 
on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So overall Im upholding the complaint about loans 3,4 and 5.
Putting things right 
Mr Lender should buy back the outstanding debt it sold if able to do so and then take the 
following steps. Otherwise, Mr Lender should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 3 and 4, not including anything already refunded
 
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled
 
C) remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 5, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of the principal on this outstanding loan. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then Mr Lender should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender 
should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E"
D) if there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" should
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 5. If this results in a surplus then the
surplus should be paid to Mr M. However if there is still an outstanding balance then
Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M. Mr Lender shouldn't
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off
E) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loan 3. The
overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing for loans 4 and 5 means any information recorded about
them is adverse, so Mr Lender should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ms credit file.
Any outstanding loan does not have to be removed from Mr Ms credit file until it has been
repaid, but Mr Lender should still remove any adverse information recorded about it.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Ms complaint about loans 3  5 and 
Mr Lender should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman