DRN-3674355
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Evolution Insurance Company Limited has declined her
claim under her building warranty.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Miss R bought the property in 2019.
She was informed by the sellers solicitor that the garden retaining walls were 
covered by the ten-year building warranty.
When Miss R made a claim on the policy, Evolution has said the garden retaining 
wall is not covered. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt feel Evolution had unfairly 
declined the claim.
Miss R didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is if the garden retaining wall is covered by the policy. 
Ive looked at the policy and it says it will pay for repairing or rebuilding each residential 
property which has been affected by major damage.
The residential property is defined in the policy as:
The property described in the certificate of insurance, comprising the structure, all non-
load-bearing elements, fixtures and fittings for which the insured is responsible, any 
common parts relating or boundary walls forming part of or any paths/roadway providing 
access for the disabled, the drainage system within the site for which the insured is 
responsible, any attached garage or other attached permanent out-building.
This insurance does not provide any cover for any swimming pool, temporary structure, free 
standing household appliance, fence, detached garage or permanent outbuilding not 
included in the scope of works undertaken by the developer, retaining or boundary wall not 
forming part of or providing support to the structure of the residential property, any path or 
roadway not providing access for the disabled, unless specifically stated on the certificate 
of insurance. 
Ive also considered the definition in the policy of the structure this says:
The following elements shall comprise the structure of a residential property: 
Foundations; 
Load-bearing parts of floors, staircases and associated guard rails, walls and roofs, 
together with load-bearing basement or retaining walls necessary for stability; 
Roof covering; 
Any external finishing surface (including rendering) necessary for the water-tightness 
of the waterproof envelope; 
Floor decking and screeds. 
Having reviewed the policy Im not persuaded the policy covers the retaining wall in question 
as I cant see that the wall is necessary for stability of the residential property. I appreciate 
Miss R was told differently by the sellers solicitor, but I can only consider the policy as this is 
what Evolution are bound to and from what Ive seen this just isnt covered. So, I wont be 
instructing Evolution to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman