DRN-3582194
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about the financial support he received from Black Horse Limited trading 
as Jaguar Financial Services (Black Horse) when he experienced issues with his 
repayments due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr A entered into a finance agreement in March 2018 which was repayable over 37 months. 
In February 2021, he contacted Black Horse to ask for financial support as he wasnt able to 
withdraw from his pension at that time and wasnt receiving his usual income due to the 
pandemic. He says he was told he could have a six-month payment deferral which he could 
start straight away or defer until April. Mr A decided to wait until April but when he called 
Black Horse to arrange this, he was told this option was no longer available. He says the 
options given to him of either returning the car or paying the full amount werent viable. He 
was then offered a refinance agreement which he agreed to but made clear he wasnt happy 
due to the increase in the interest rate.
Black Horse says that Mr As agreement didnt offer the facility for payment deferrals but in 
response to the pandemic, temporary support was put in place and payment deferrals were 
offered. However, on 1 April 2021 a business decision was taken to no longer allow these. It 
says when Mr A called in February 2021 the information provided was correct at that time as 
the adviser wouldnt have been aware of the forthcoming policy change. When Mr A called in 
April 2021, payment deferrals were no longer an option and it was agreed that Mr A would 
proceed with a new refinanced agreement. Based on this it upheld Mr As complaint about 
the information provided around the payments deferrals and the service he had received and 
paid him £200 compensation.
Our investigator accepted that Mr A was told in February 2021 that he could have a payment 
deferral starting in April but said that the guidance provided by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) meant these were no longer available:
Consumers will have until 31 March 2021 to apply for an initial or a further payment deferral. 
After that date, they will be able to extend existing deferrals to 31 July 2021, provided these 
extensions cover consecutive payments, and subject to the maximum 6 months allowed. If 
borrowers who have not yet taken a deferral think they need the full 6 months, they should 
apply in good time before their February 2021 payment.
Our investigator thought the February 2021 call could have been handled better. However, 
he didnt think Black Horse was wrong not to provide the payment deferral in April 2021. He 
said Mr A was provided with the options available under his agreement, but these didnt suit 
him, and a refinance was agreed. He said that Black Horse was under no obligation to offer 
the refinance. Based on this he thought the £200 compensation paid was reasonable and 
didnt require it to do anything else.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view. He reiterated that Black Horse agreed to 
provide a payment deferral and for him to call back in April to start this. He said that he acted 
on this advice and Black Horse should honour this. He said he didnt have the option to look 
elsewhere for alternative finance as he didnt have an income. Mr A didnt think he had been 
treated fairly and thought the financial detriment he had experienced by taking the new 
agreement should be refunded.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr A called Black Horse in February 2021 to ask about financial support. Based on 
this call he believed he could call back in April and set up a six-month payment 
deferral. However, when he called back, he was told this option was not available. I 
note Mr As comment about having a verbal agreement, but I do not find that the call 
that took place meant an agreement was in place that was binding on the parties. 
Black Horse explained that Mr As agreement didnt allow for payment deferrals and 
so the offer being made was in response to the temporary arrangements put in place 
due to the pandemic. The FCA guidance issued in November 2020 said that firms 
should not be giving deferrals under the Covid guidance that extend beyond 31 July 
2021 and that customers applying for their first payment deferral should approach 
their firm before the February 2021 payment is due if they wish to be considered for 
the maximum six months deferral. Therefore, I didnt find I could say that Black 
Horse was wrong in April 2021 to say that a payment deferral was no longer 
available.
A recording of the February call wasnt available, but the call notes showed that Mr A 
was told he could have a six-month payment holiday and to call back in April to set 
this up. I noted Black Horses comment that the business decision hadnt been made 
at that time regarding ongoing payment deferrals. However, given the FCA guidance 
was in place and Mr As agreement wouldnt allow for payment deferrals in usual 
circumstances, I didnt think it was reasonable to suggest that he could take the 
payment deferral in April and I think on balance the information given was 
misleading. 
I accepted that Mr A relied on the information about being able to set up a payment 
deferral in April and his actions were based on this.
Where incorrect information has been given and relied on, the redress is not to 
require the business to deliver based on the incorrect information and so I didnt find 
that Black Horse was required to give a payment deferral from April 2021. Instead I 
considered what was most likely to have happened had Mr A not been told he could 
have a payment deferral starting in April.
I thought it more likely than not given Mr As circumstances he would have taken the 
payment deferral in February 2021 (or before the deadline of end March) had he 
known it wouldnt be available in April. Had this happened, Mr A wouldnt have 
needed to make any payments for six months. His payments would then restart and 
would have needed to be made until he received his money from his pension and 
could settle his agreement. As Mr A was able to make a couple of months payments 
in February 2021, I thought it reasonable that had the payment deferral started 
around that time then he could have used the funds available to make the payments 
for the couple of months after the payment deferral ended until he settled his 
agreement. Therefore, while I agreed that Black Horse provided Mr A with the correct options in 
April 2021 and then tried to assist him by offering a refinance agreement which Mr A 
accepted, I thought on balance, that had the correct information been given in 
February 2021 this option wouldnt have been needed.
Based on my conclusions I considered what was reasonable redress in this situation. Had 
Mr A received a six months payment deferral, he would still have been liable for the interest 
during this period. I noted the interest rate on the refinanced agreement was higher and 
based on this Mr A believed he has suffered a financial loss. I thought it reasonable that any 
financial loss - calculated as the difference between the payments Mr A would have made 
under his original agreement based on the payment deferral being in place for six months 
and the agreement being settled in October 2021 and the payments made under the new 
agreement - was refunded to Mr A. 
Black Horse had agreed that the service it provided wasnt as it should have been and paid 
Mr A £200 because of this. Having looked at the issues raised I thought this was reasonable.
Mr A accepted my provisional decision. Although he noted the length of time he had spent 
on this issue and the stress he had been caused and asked if the compensation amount 
could be reconsidered.
Black Horse noted that had the payment deferral been applied Mr A would have been 
required to pay additional interest. It provided a calculation which showed the amount Mr A 
had paid due to the refinancing was higher than the amount he would have paid had his 
original agreement remained in place and the payment deferral been provided. It calculated 
the payment deferral based on this starting in April and confirmed this was more positive 
result for Mr A then the deferral starting in February. It agreed the difference would be 
refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think Mr A was provided with misleading information 
on the call in February 2021 and because of this he wasnt able to benefit from the payment 
deferral. While I acknowledge Black Horse did then try to assist Mr A this resulted in him 
paying more than he would have done had he kept his original agreement with the deferral 
holiday and settled in October 2021 as he had intended (he settled the new agreement in 
October 2021).
Therefore I uphold this complaint and find that additional to the compensation already paid, 
Black Horse should refund Mr A the difference between the amount he paid under his 
agreement and the amount he would have paid had the original agreement remained in 
place with a six-month payment deferral. Black Horse has provided a calculation for this 
difference which I think reasonable.
I understand the comment Mr A has made about the length of time taken for his complaint to 
be resolved and I appreciate this will have been a stressful process. However, in this case I 
think the compensation of £200 that was paid along with the refund of the difference in the 
amount he paid and the amount he would have paid under the agreements provides a 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. Putting things right
Black Horse Limited trading as Jaguar Financial Services should, additional to the £200 
compensation paid, refund Mr A the difference between the amount he paid and the amount 
he would have paid had the payment deferral been set up on the original agreement and the 
agreement then settled in October. I note a calculation for this amount has been provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman