DRN-2109451
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T are unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) declined their 
claim for storm damage based on the report provided by an assessor who didnt go onto the 
roof.
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T had buildings insurance with Fairmead. The policy is in joint names but, 
because Mr T dealt with the claim, and for ease, I will refer only to him.
Mr T made a claim under his buildings insurance for storm damage to his flat roof and utility 
ceiling. Fairmead sent an assessor to inspect the damage two weeks later. The assessor 
recommended that the claim be declined. His report said that the damage to the flat roof was 
caused by the breakdown of materials and damage to the utility ceiling was caused by water 
ingress over a period of time.
Mr T complained to Fairmead. He said the assessor originally agreed that there was no 
evidence of leaks before the damage. He also felt that the assessor hadnt completed a 
thorough inspection because he didnt go onto the roof. Fairmead maintained its decision to 
decline the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that the expert report provided by 
Fairmead was sufficient evidence to conclude that the damage was due to wear and tear 
rather than the result of a one-off storm. While he accepted that the water ingress wouldve 
come as a shock to Mr T, our investigator thought it was more likely to have happened 
gradually over time.
Mr T didnt agree. He thought all parties had accepted the damage was caused by the storm 
and he questioned whether the assessor was qualified to report on such matters.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise Mr T will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Firstly, theres no dispute that there were storm conditions present when Mr T reported the 
damage to his roof. And I dont think theres any disagreement that a damaged and leaking 
roof is typical of that caused by a storm. So my role now is to decide whether Fairmead 
declined Mr Ts claim fairly in line with the policy terms and conditions. To do that, Ive 
looked at the evidence available and thought carefully about whether its likely that the storm 
was the main cause of the damage. 
The policy covers storm damage but, within the general exclusions section, the policy states 
it will not cover:
11. Gradual deterioration/maintenance 
Any loss or damage caused by wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or the 
atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from the normal use, 
maintenance and upkeep of your buildings and its contents. 
Any process of cleaning, repair or alteration, damage by insects, electrical or mechanical 
failure or breakdown, faulty design, materials or workmanship. 
14. Wear and tear 
Any loss or damage caused by wear or anything which happens gradually including 
deterioration, settlement or shrinkage. 
Fairmeads expert report states that the flat roof, has failed and reached the end of its life 
span. It also says damage, occurred due to a natural breakdown of materials and with no 
evident defects.  
The expert report says the utility ceiling, collapsed due to ingress [of water] over a period of 
time, and as the damage externally cannot be attributed to a one off storm event no cover 
can be provided for the internal damage.
 
Mr T hasnt provided any contradictory reports for me to consider, so Ive thought about what 
Fairmead reported and what Mr T said happened during the assessors visit.
Mr T said the assessor told him he couldnt see any evidence of prior leaks and I have no 
reason to doubt what Mr T says. If there had already been leaks, I expect Mr T wouldve 
seen them and had them repaired. So I accept that the leak and damage he claimed for 
came as a shock to him. But that doesnt mean the damage and resulting leak were caused 
by the storm. Its just as possible that the severity of the weather conditions simply revealed 
damage already present as a result of wear and tear. And that is what Fairmeads expert 
report confirmed. 
Mr T doubts his roof had suffered from wear and tear because it was eight years old and the 
average life span of a flat roof is ten years. I understand that its the expected average, but 
that must mean that some roofs last longer while others dont last as long as ten years. I 
expect that other factors play a part in the durability of the roof which may mean that some 
roofs will display signs of wear and tear much sooner. So its necessary to rely on the 
opinion provided by an expert.
Ive looked at the report provided by Fairmead, which includes photos of the damage and, in 
the absence of any contradictory evidence, I cant see any reason to question its accuracy. I 
know Mr T doesnt think the assessor was suitably qualified to report on the damage and 
hed like evidence to prove otherwise. Fairmead employed the services of a company which 
publishes the minimum level of relevant qualification and experience held by its contractors, 
and I dont think itd be fair for me to doubt the accuracy of its published information. But 
even if I obtained evidence, I dont think Mr T would be satisfied because, very simply, he 
disagrees with the assessors report. Fairmead considers the assessor suitably qualified, 
and it has the right to do so. But it also said it would consider any other report if Mr T wished 
to seek out his own expert opinion. So I dont think Fairmead was dismissing, out of hand, 
Mr Ts concerns. It offered to look at any report he might wish to provide but Im not aware that he did so. So, in the absence of any contradictory evidence, Im satisfied that 
Fairmeads report is an accurate reflection of the situation.
Mr T says the assessor didnt even go onto the roof to inspect the damage so, again, he 
questions how the report can be relied upon. The report includes photos of the top of the flat 
roof. So, whether the assessor went onto the roof or whether he used equipment to 
photograph the top of the roof doesnt matter here. Thats because however it was done, the 
assessor obtained evidence of the condition of the top of the roof and he used that to inform 
is expert opinion.
In summary, then, Fairmead declined Mr Ts claim because it thought the damage was 
already present and the storm simply revealed the damage. Because the damage was 
already present, water ingress wouldve been happening over a period of time and the storm 
just revealed the extent of the wear and tear. As the policy excludes damage caused by 
wear and tear and that which happens gradually over time, Im satisfied that Fairmead fairly 
declined Mr Ts claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman