DRN-4485638
The complaint
Mr R complains that Tandem Personal Loans Ltd (Tandem) unfairly rejected his claim 
under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a 
timeshare product he purchased with a loan from them.    
What happened
The loan that is the subject of this complaint was originally provided by another business. 
That loan was subsequently acquired with Tandem now having overall responsibility for it. 
So, this means that Tandem are the respondent in this complaint. For simplicity, Ill refer to 
Tandem throughout my decision rather than the original lender.
In or around October 2018, while on holiday under an existing timeshare product, Mr R 
attended a meeting with a timeshare supplier who Ill refer to as A. During that meeting, Mr 
R discussed concerns he had about his existing timeshare product with A. In particular, that 
the accommodation that product provided wasnt sufficient for his needs due to the size of 
his family.
As a consequence of those discussions, Mr R agreed to purchase a different product 
supplied by A. The new product provided an allocation of points/credits which could be used 
to provide access to accommodation and holiday experiences from a portfolio offered by A. 
The purchase price agreed for the new (points-based) product was £17,500, funded by a 
loan with Tandem over 180 months.
In August 2021, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr R submitted a claim to 
Tandem under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. 
The PR allege that Mr R purchased the points-based product having relied upon 
misrepresentations made by A. And under section 75 of the CCA (S75), Tandem is jointly 
liable for those misrepresentations. In particular, the PR allege that A told Mr R that the 
purchase of product points would address issues he had voiced about the suitability of his 
existing timeshare given the size of his family. Furthermore, the PR allege A told Mr R the 
product could be easily sold if required.
The PR also believe there to be a breach of contract as a consequence of the liquidation of 
A, as they are now unable to provide the service sold.
The R went on to say that the alleged misrepresentations, together with various regulatory 
and legislative breaches, amongst other things, led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship 
under section 140A of the CCA (S140A). In particular:
Mr R was pressured into entering into the purchase and loan agreements and felt 
under duress due to aggressive commercial practices contrary to The Consumer 
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT);
the commercial purpose and nature of the meeting wasnt indicated to Mr R, contrary 
to regulation 14 of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 (the TRs);
there were breaches of the Finance Leasing Association (FLA) code of practice in 
so far as:
oMr R wasnt given time to read and consider all the information provided;
oA failed to review and compare finance available from other providers;
oA failed to inform Mr R he was free to arrange his own finance;
oA failed undertake a proper affordability check to ensure the loan was 
sustainably affordable for Mr R; and
the terms of the agreement are so egregious so as to be unfair in themselves since 
an aspect of the relationship was hidden from view  that being a payment of 
commission (by Tandem to A).
In response, Tandem didnt agree there was any evidence the product had been 
misrepresented to Mr R. Or that there was anything that would lead a court to find that an 
unfair relationship existed as a consequence of the agreement(s).
The PR didnt accept Tandems findings, so referred Mr Rs complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators considered all the information available before issuing their findings. They 
also didnt think there was sufficient evidence to support Mr Rs claim. Or that there was any 
other reason why his complaint should be upheld.
Having consulted with Mr R, the PR rejected our investigators findings and asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. The PR provided detailed 
reasons and comments to support the rejections of our investigators findings. I dont 
propose to repeat everything they said here. But in summary, they said:
the timeshare had been sold to Mr R as an investment that was extremely desirable 
and could easily be sold at a profit;
the purchase should be viewed as wholly unnecessary unless it was being 
purchased on the basis it was an investment; and
the purchase was represented as the only method of Mr R realising his investment.
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further a reach a decision. In doing so, while I was inclined to reach the same 
outcome as our investigator, I considered some issues which I dont feel were previously 
fully addressed. So, I issued a provisional decision on 31 October 2023 giving both sides the 
chance to respond.
In my provisional decision I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection to consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
R paid for the timeshare product under a regulated loan agreement with Tandem, so 
it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means Mr R is afforded the protection 
offered to borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this 
section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr R and Tandem arising out 
of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And because 
the product was funded under the credit agreement, they are deemed to be related 
agreements. Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. But 
as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and 
reasonable. 
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct AuthorityIts important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
considered here specifically relates to whether I believe Tandems treatment of Mr 
Rs claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available. 
This service isnt able to make legal findings  as Ive already said, that is the role of 
the courts. While the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted 
by the consumer, we do not provide a legal service. Where a consumer doesnt 
accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their 
claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Mr Rs timeshare product experience
Based upon the information available, at the time of the product sale in October 
2018, it appears Mr R was an existing customer of A and had previously bought a 
timeshare product from them in February 2017. So, I think its reasonable to conclude 
that Mr R had some awareness about the product hed purchased, how it operated 
and any associated costs. I also think its reasonable to conclude that Mr R was 
familiar with A (as a timeshare supplier) and the sales presentations given by them. 
Particularly as the presentation referred to in 2018 (the subject of his claim here) 
wasnt his first experience.
The claim for misrepresentation under S75
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by A in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that A made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product. In 
other words, that they told Mr R something that wasnt true in relation to one or more 
of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentations 
were material in inducing Mr R to enter the contract. This means I would need to be 
persuaded that Mr R reasonably relied on those false statements when deciding to 
buy the timeshare product.
From the information available, I cant be certain about what Mr R was specifically 
told (or not told) about the benefits of the product he purchased here. It was, 
however, indicated that he was told these things. So, Ive thought about that 
alongside the other evidence available. Although not determinative of the matter, I 
havent seen any documentation which supports the assertions in Mr Rs claim, such 
as marketing material or documentation from the time of the sale that echoes what 
he says he was told. 
The original claim suggest the points-based product was sold as a means to provide 
Mr R with greater flexibility to secure accommodation more appropriate to the size of 
his family. The information suggests that Mr R (and his partner) had a child following 
the original purchase in 2017. Documentation provided shows that the 2017 product 
related to a studio accommodation at a specific location with a maximum occupancy 
of 2 persons. So, given this change of circumstances, I can understand why the 
original timeshare purchased may not have continued to meet his needs.
The product purchased in 2018 appears to provide flexibility to make bookings from a 
range of options and various resorts across As portfolio. So, I can see why this might 
have been a more attractive proposition for Mr R given his change of circumstances.In Mr Rs claim, reference is made to him struggling to access availability. But from 
the information and documentation Ive seen, I cant see that A provided any 
guarantees or assurances as regards availability. The documentation suggests 
reservations are on a first come first served basis and subject to availability. And in 
any event, I havent seen any evidence to support Mr Rs alleged experience.
In response to our investigators findings, the PR introduced an allegation that the 
timeshare was sold as an investment albeit this wasnt an allegation specifically 
included in the original claim. That said, I havent seen anything evidence to support 
this allegation. Furthermore, I dont think the points-based product can have been 
marketed and sold as an investment contrary to The TRs simply because there might 
have been some inherent value to Mr Rs membership. And in any event, Ive found 
nothing within the evidence provided to suggest A gave any assurances or 
guarantees about the future value of the product purchased. A would had to have 
presented the membership in such a way that used its investment element to 
persuade Mr R to contract. Only then would it have fallen foul of the prohibition on 
marketing and selling certain holiday products as an investment, contrary to 
Regulation 14(3) of the TRs. 
The PR appear to suggest the points-based product was represented as a means to 
make it easier for Mr R to exit from his timeshare holding. And that the new product 
points were represented as having the ability to be sold after a qualification period. 
But as Ive said already, Ive found nothing within the documentation provided that 
appears to provide any guarantees or assurances about the resale of the points Mr R 
purchased. Furthermore, the original claim to Tandem appears to suggest the 
primary reason for purchase was to address issues with accommodation size for Mr 
Rs family  not as a means to exit the product purchased.
On balance, and in the absence of supporting evidence from the time of the sale, I 
therefore cant reasonably say, with any certainty, that A did in fact make the alleged 
misrepresentations. 
The breach of contract claim under S75
Tandem have said that whilst A may have entered an insolvency process, the current 
management company confirm that timeshare owners remain able to fully utilise their 
timeshare products subject to the associated agreements. So, in the absence of any 
specific explanation or evidence to support why Mr R believes theres been a breach 
of contract which resulted in a loss for him, I havent seen anything that would lead 
me to conclude there was such a breach.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (Tandem) and the debtor (Mr R) 
is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
As Ive said previously, its important to acknowledge that only a court can make a 
determination under S140A. But as this is relevant law, I need to take it into account 
 where appropriate  in deciding whether Tandems response to Mr Rs claim 
appears fair and reasonable.
The pressured sale and processThe claim and subsequent submissions set out an allegation that Mr R was subjected 
to a pressurised sale and was made to feel under duress. I acknowledge what has 
been said about the sales presentation he attended. I can appreciate why the 
presentation might have felt like a pressured sale  especially if, as Mr R approached 
the closing stages, he was going to have to make a decision on the day in order to 
avoid missing out on an offer that may not have been available at a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr R agreed to the purchase in 2018 when he simply didnt want 
to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that he went on to say something to 
A, after the purchase, to suggest hed agreed to it when he didnt want to. And he 
hasnt provided a credible explanation for why he didnt subsequently seek to cancel 
the purchase within the 14-day cooling off period permitted here. 
If Mr R only agreed to the purchase because he felt he was pressured, I find this 
aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest Mr R was obviously harassed or coerced into the purchase.  
And because of that, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate he 
made the decision to proceed because his ability to exercise choice was  or was 
likely to have been  significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the CPUT 
Regulations.
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
[Tandem] and matters relating to the debtor [Mr R]).
Mr R already held an existing timeshare product hed purchased previously from A. 
Importantly; the new purchase appears to relate to an upgrade and/or change from 
his existing timeshare product holding at the time. It doesnt appear it was his first 
product purchase from A and Mr R wasnt a new customer. So, its likely he wouldve 
benefitted from his previous experience and what might be expected from the 
meeting and sales presentation in 2018.
Even if there was potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations might 
have led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to 
be taken within the context of Mr Rs overall experience. And even if I was to find that 
some of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no such 
finding  I think its unlikely this would lead to a court finding this led to a sufficiently 
extreme imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
Time to consider the agreement(s)
It appears the purchase agreement include a period of 14 days from the date of 
agreeing to the purchase within which to cancel the agreement without giving any 
reason  as required under the TRs. 
So, even if I were to find that Mr R wasnt given adequate opportunity to read, 
consider and understand the purchase documentation at the time of the sale - and I 
make no such finding - I would expect him to have had sufficient time in which to 
consider his decision within the subsequent 14 days. And, where appropriate, raise 
any questions or concerns before the loan was drawn and the purchase completed. 
Theres no suggestion or evidence that Mr R did raise any questions or concerns 
prior to the sale being completed. Or that he had any intention of cancelling the 
agreement.
I also understand the loan agreement included the same 14 day cooling off period. 
But theres no suggestion or evidence that Mr R raised any questions or concerns 
about this either.
As responsibilities and disclosure of commission paidPart of Mr Rs S140A claim is based upon the status of A (as the introducer of the 
loan) and their resultant responsibilities towards him. In particular, its argued that the 
payment of commission by Tandem to A was kept from him. But it appears no 
commission was in fact paid here. And in any event. I dont think any payment of 
commission to A was incompatible with its role in the transaction anyway. 
A wasnt acting as an agent of Mr R, but as the supplier of contractual rights he 
obtained under the timeshare product agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based 
upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was As role to make an impartial or 
disinterested recommendation, or to give Mr R advice or information on that basis. As 
far as Im aware, Mr R was always at liberty to choose how he wanted to fund the 
transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest Tandem wouldve been under any 
regulatory duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these 
circumstances. Nor is there any suggestion or evidence that Mr R requested those 
details from Tandem or A anyway. 
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mr Rs claim that could be considered outside of S75 
and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether Tandem undertook a proper credit 
assessment. The PR allege a proper affordability check wasnt completed.
Its relevant that the PR havent provided any compelling evidence to show that the 
loan was unaffordable or unsuitable for Mr R. And Ive not seen anything that 
supports any suggestion of financial difficulty from that time. I have seen bank 
statements covering a period shortly before the purchase in October 2018 and 
beyond. Having considered these, it appears Mr Rs bank account was well 
managed. And whilst the balances held may not have been large, I cant reasonably 
say they suggest Mr R was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Tandem have explained to this service the affordability assessment they completed 
which they believe showed the loan was sustainably affordable for him.  If I were to 
find that the checks and tests completed by Tandem didnt comply with the regulatory 
guidelines and requirements that applied  and I make no such finding  I would 
need to be satisfied that had such checks been completed, they wouldve revealed 
that the loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mr R in order to uphold 
his complaint here. And I dont believe any proven compliance failure would 
automatically mean that Mr Rs loan agreement was null and void in any event. It 
would need to be shown that any such failure resulted in a loss to Mr R as a 
consequence.
Ive seen no other specific information about Mr Rs actual position at the time. 
However, it is suggested that Mr R later suffered some financial distress as an impact 
of the Global Pandemic in 2020.  Although, I cant reasonably hold Tandem 
responsible for that. Nor do I believe that was reasonably foreseeable by them. 
Tandem have confirmed that Mr Rs repayments have been maintained in line with 
the loan agreement. 
Based upon these findings, I cant reasonably conclude the loan was likely to be 
unaffordable for him given the information available at that time. Or that he suffered 
any loss as a consequence.
Summary
As Ive explained above, this service isnt afforded powers to decide legal claims. I 
can only consider whether Tandems treatment and response to Mr Rs claim 
appears fair and reasonable given all the information available. Based upon my findings above, I cant say that it wasnt. So, as things currently stand, I dont intend 
to ask them to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tandem responded to my provisional decision and confirmed they have no further points to 
make. Despite follow up from this service, the PR havent acknowledged or responded to my 
provisional decision.
In these circumstances, and with nothing new to consider here, Ive no reason to vary from 
my provisional findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman