DRN-4346351
The complaint
E, a limited company, has complained that Society of Lloyds (SOL) mis-sold an accident 
insurance policy and it wants a refund of premiums.
What happened
E took out personal accident policies for two of its staff members which would pay out in the 
event of accident or sickness. 
In 2022, one of its members made a claim. E complained and referred its complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service as it said the policies were mis-sold.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think the policies had been mis-sold as 
the sale was not advised and the information provided to E was clear.
E disagreed and in summary said it didnt understand what it had bought. It said it had made 
it clear to the adviser that it wanted business interruption insurance.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say a seller should provide information which is 
clear fair and not misleading when selling a policy as a non-advised sale. 
In 2020, SOL provided documentation to E including details of the policies and when they 
would pay out. The email includes demands and needs and an insurance product 
information document which confirmed the type of policy that had been bought and the 
benefits that could be paid out. 
Having considered the information provided, I think there was enough information which was 
clear, fair and not misleading, including the benefits schedule and the terms and conditions 
which explained when the policy would pay out. 
E says the salaries were small and so the insurance wouldnt have been worth it. E said it 
needed insurance in the event the staff were unable to carry out consultancy work which 
would deprive E of its income. E says it thought the policy was a business interruption policy 
but I havent seen any evidence to suggest that this is what was discussed. The policy 
wouldnt only cover income for salaries, it would also pay a specified benefit if there was an 
eligible accident. So I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
When E complained, SOL refunded some premiums. As I dont think the policy was mis-
sold, I wont be asking SOL to do anything further. SOL was on risk for the time E had the 
policies for any eligible claim and so I dont think any further refund is fair or reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman