DRN-2580133
The complaint
Mr A complains Assurant General Insurance Limited declined his claim under his mobile
phone insurance policy.
What happened
In early June 2019, Mr A took out a mobile phone insurance policy with Assurant. And just
under two weeks later, he registered his phone under the policy and made a claim for a
damaged screen. Mr A was asked to provide proof of ownership for his phone to support his
claim, and he provided documentation the following day. Unfortunately, the documents he
sent were for the wrong phone, and after Assurant notified Mr A of this, he sent the correct
information a few days later.
When reviewing Mr As claim, Assurant saw information that suggested the damage to
Mr As phone screen had been reported to the manufacturer of his phone five days before
his policy started. Assurant explained to Mr A his claim wasnt covered because the damage
occurred before the policy start date.
Mr A disagreed with Assurants decision. He said that when he spoke to the manufacturer at
the start of June, he called to discuss a damaged screen on his old phone, and the fact he
was having difficulties transferring data to his new phone, which was the one he was now
claiming for. He said the call to the manufacturer had disconnected and this resulted in the
call being logged against the wrong device. Mr A also provided a letter from the
manufacturer to support what had happened. Assurant said their decision remained the
same, so Mr A brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator felt Mr As complaint should be upheld. He said the manufacturers letter
supported what Mr A said had happened. As such, he wasnt persuaded Mr As phone was
damaged before taking out the policy with Assurant.
Assurant disagreed with our investigator, and maintained the information suggested Mr As
phone was damaged before his policy started. As such, they asked for the complaint to be
passed for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 January 2021. In this I explained that I wasnt minded 
to uphold Mr As complaint. This was because I wasnt persuaded Mr A had provided 
Assurant enough information to confirm his phone wasnt damaged before his policy started.
Mr A and Assurant had until 8 February 2021 to provide me with any further points and/or 
evidence for me to consider. Assurant agreed with my provisional findings, and I didnt 
receive anything further from Mr A. 
In light of the above, my decision remains the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. I know this isnt the outcome he
hoped for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Mr As policy says policyholders cant claim on a device which has already been damaged,
lost or stolen prior to taking out the policy. Assurant declined Mr As claim because they
didnt think the damage occurred during the policy term. So, Ive had to decide whether it
was reasonable for Assurant to reach this conclusion after considering the information Mr A
provided to support his claim.
When declining Mr As claim, Assurant relied on the information contained in the logs from
the phone manufacturer. The logs for the phone Mr A was claiming for suggested he had
called them about a damaged screen five days before taking out his insurance policy. Ive
seen a copy of this information myself and agree this is what the log suggests happened.
So, when Assurant first reviewed Mr As claim, I dont consider they treated him unfairly
when they declined it.
Mr A says the logs from the phone manufacturer dont accurately reflect what happened
when he called them at the start of June. Hes said that he called to discuss two phones, and
the one with the damaged screen at that time was his old phone. Mr A says that when
discussing the phone hes now claiming for, he only mentioned that he was having problems
transferring data to it.
To support his claim, Mr A got a report from a shop that specialises in devices from the
manufacturer of his phone. This report said:
The main issue appears that the customer called in reporting that a display has been
accidentally cracked and the phone call disconnected from our side before we could get the
relevant details and we were unable to get back on the phone with the customer. Due to this
my colleague assumed this was for his most recent purchase (XS Max) when in fact it was
his older device...
Our investigator felt this report should have been enough to satisfy Assurant Mr As phone
wasnt damaged before the policy start date. I accept this report goes some way in
supporting what Mr A says happened. However, I cant agree that it goes far enough to
answer the legitimate questions Assurant had about what happened when Mr A contacted
his phone manufacturer at the start of June.
Mr A says he called his manufacturer about his new phone at the start of June because he
was having difficulties transferring data to it. However, there is nothing on the logs that
suggest this was the case. I appreciate Mr A says this is due to the confusion caused when
the call was disconnected. However, the same logs show that Mr A called the manufacturer
in April 2019 to discuss problems transferring data to this phone. Given this was shortly after
Mr A received his new phone, this call doesnt appear to be out of the ordinary. So, Ive had
to consider what happened in June 2019 that caused Mr A to contact his phone
manufacturer for the same problem. And Ive not seen anything in Mr As testimony to our
service or Assurant that explains this.Mr As own testimony and the report he provided suggest his call to the manufacturer ended
before the issues with both of his phones could be resolved. Given that Mr A felt the issues
needed to be discussed with the manufacturer, I would have expected to see logs of a follow
up call - or calls to resolve the broken screen on his old phone, and data transfer on the new
phone. However, Ive not seen anything in the logs for either phone to suggest this
happened. And again, there is nothing in Mr As testimony to explain why this may be the
case.
We asked Mr A to provide us with notes of the call he had with his manufacturer at the start
of June. Unfortunately, this wasnt something Mr A was able to obtain. The call notes would
have been helpful because there is nothing in the shops report that suggests the person
who wrote it listened to the relevant call between Mr A and the manufacturer. I appreciate
Mr A would have explained the circumstances of what happened to the adviser he spoke to
in the store. However, I would have expected the report to confirm how the person who
wrote it determined what happened when Mr A called them at the start of June. And without
this detail, I can understand why Assurant didnt change their mind after considering the
report.
Ultimately, its for a policyholder to prove their claim meets the terms and conditions of their
policy. In this case, Mr A needed to prove his phone wasnt damaged before he took out the
policy. Having reviewed everything, I dont consider the evidence Mr A sent Assurant clearly
demonstrates his phone was damaged after the policy started. And because of this, I cant
fairly say Assurants decision to decline Mr As claim was unreasonable.
Given the above, Im not asking Assurant to do anything to put things
right.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint about Assurant General 
Insurance Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman