DRN-2715641
The complaint
Mr O has complained about Society of Lloyd's. He isnt happy that it turned down a claim 
under his taxi motor insurance policy and cancelled his policy.
 
What happened
I looked at the details of this complaint previously and provided my provisional decision at 
the end of January 2021 as follows;
Mr Os taxi was stolen and so he claimed under his insurance policy. Lloyds looked into the 
theft, but it turned down his claim. Although Lloyds questioned a few things, including 
whether it was aware that the vehicle had been modified, it declined the claim because Mr O 
was off work at the time of the theft. And so it wouldnt have provided cover had it have 
known he was only using the vehicle for social and domestic purposes only.
As Mr O wasnt happy about this he complained to this service and the fact that his policy 
was cancelled as his vehicle had been modified. Our investigator looked into things for him 
and partly upheld his complaint. She accepted Lloyds had acted reasonably in cancelling 
the policy after the theft when it realised the vehicle had been modified. It had chosen to 
cancel the policy, rather than avoid it, as it appeared that Mr O had told his broker about the 
modifications. But she thought Lloyds should deal with the claim as Mr O was a taxi driver 
and had just been unable to work due to poor health although he had worked on occasion.
As Lloyds didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the details of the complaint are well known to both sides I dont propose to rehearse all 
the arguments and details here. But Ill focus on the key issues of the decline of the claim 
and the cancellation of the policy. Having done so I think the complaint should be partly 
upheld. Ill explain why.
When Mr Os vehicle was stolen Lloyds turned down his claim as he wasnt actually using 
the vehicle for work as a taxi driver or private hire at the time of theft. But Mr O has 
explained that his employment was as a taxi driver but that he wasnt working at the time of 
theft due to his health. Mr O had undergone major surgery in the months before the claim 
and wasnt able to work as planned. So although I can understand Lloyds position I dont 
think it would be fair not to pay the theft claim.
I say this as Mr O works as a taxi driver and has a taxi licence which is why he insured his 
vehicle for this purpose. It is very unfortunate he couldnt work due to his poor health, but it 
was his intention to get back to work and had worked on occasion. Indeed I note he told the 
insurer that he had worked booked in when he first reported the vehicle stolen. And Im sure 
Mr O couldve gained insurance privately and more competitively if he wished and would 
have chosen this if he didnt intend to get back to work.
As such, I think it would be unfair to decline Mr Os claim as he had used the vehicle for 
domestic and social pleasure purposes on the day it was stolen. I say this as it was his 
intention to use his vehicle for private hire and had work booked in at the time of theft. He 
was just unable to work for a period of time due to his poor health, he wasnt unemployed 
and had worked on occasion (when his health allowed) which he clearly required this policy 
for. And as the policy did allow use for social and domestic purposes as well I dont think 
Lloyds has acted fairly in turning down the claim.
It would appear that Lloyds have mentioned other concerns including modifications to the 
vehicle after it declined the claim. But it hasnt relied on these in turning down the claim or 
looked to avoid the policy for these reasons as it wasnt clear whether the broker was aware 
of the modifications or not when the policy was taken out. Lloyds said that this was in view 
of not knowing who was responsible for the non-disclosure.
However, it has gone on to cancel Mr Os policy once it was fully aware of the modifications 
which was after the claim and I think this is fair in the circumstances. It would appear Lloyds 
has accepted that Mr O told his broker about the vehicle and he was clearly honest about 
the vehicle modifications (which were applied before he bought the vehicle) when he made 
his claim.
So, I think that Lloyds should pay the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy and pay 8% simple interest for the time Mr O has been without payment.
Replies
Mr O replied and said that he was happy with the provisional decision. But he wasnt sure 
what I meant when I said I intended to partly uphold his complaint as opposed to fully uphold 
it. 
While Lloyds didnt respond. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having considered all of the further comments and original evidence again I still think 
the complaint should be partly upheld. 
As Lloyds didnt respond and Mr O accepts the position outlined above I dont propose to go 
over the details of the complaint again. And I dont see any reason to change my position. Ill 
just clarify for Mr O that although Ive upheld most of his complaint I didnt uphold all of it. I 
thought Lloyds had acted reasonably when it cancelled his policy when it realised the 
vehicle was modified, rather than avoid it.
Given all of this, I maintain that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for Lloyds to pay Mr Os claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. And pay 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date 
of settlement.
  
My final decisionIt follows, for the reasons given above, that I think this complaint should be partly upheld. 
And I require Society of Lloyd's to pay Mr Os claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy and pay 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman