DRN-3290738
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr F complain that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AUICL) is
responsible for poor service in connection with a motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to AAUICL, I include its windscreen replacement provider and others insofar as
I hold AAUICL responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a car made by a premium car-maker and first
registered in 2011.
For the year from May 2020, Mrs A had the car insured on a policy under which AAUICL was
responsible for dealing with claims.
The policy schedule said that Mrs A was the owner of the car and Mr F was the registered
keeper. He was covered as a named driver.
The policy was comprehensive. It included cover for glass damage, subject to a £75.00
excess.
In 2020, Mrs A made a claim for damage to the windscreen of the car. In early October
2020, AAUICL took a short video inside the car before it replaced its windscreen. Mrs A
wouldve had to pay the policy excess.
Later in October 2020, the car broke down and was taken to a local garage. In November
2020, the garage said the fitting of the new windscreen had caused a water leak that had
damaged an ABS (assisted braking system) hydraulic unit and the interior of the car.
On 24 November 2020, Mrs A and Mr F complained to the windscreen company. The next
day, that company replaced the windscreen again. The garage sent Mr F two invoices dated
25 November 2020. The invoice numbers respectively ending 12 and 13. The invoice
ending 13 included a charge for a salvaged (that is second-hand) ABS unit.
The windscreen company made two further visits and fixed the automatic wiper sensor.
By a final response dated January 2021, the windscreen company said it had offered either
to do a full valet of the car or to refund the excess.
Mrs A and Mr F complained to AAUICL. By a final response dated February 2021, AAUICL
turned down the complaint. Mrs A and Mr F brought the complaint to us in May 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
AAUICL had acted fairly.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs A 
and Mr F and to AAUICL on 6 January 2022. I summarise my findings:
The garages email in November 2021 gave the following further information that 
AAUICL needed to see and to have an opportunity to comment on:
The ABS/DSC unit is located behind the nearside wheel arch liner quite low 
down the bulkhead with the wiring loom coming from the passenger floor area 
along the underneath forwards to connect into the unit, these are not 
accessible from the engine bay and the under-vehicle plastic trays and wheel 
arch liner have to be removed to access it.
The wiring loom exits the vehicle at the lowest point in the passenger footwell
compartment which is why the rain water eventually got into it [then] wicked 
along into the control unit causing the damage.
 
Subject to that I was minded to find that the leak from the nearside of the windscreen 
caused damage to the ABS unit on the nearside of the car.
I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct AAUICL to compensate Mrs A 
and Mr F for the financial loss and for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
leak.
Subject to any further information from Mrs A and Mr F or from AAUICL, my provisional 
decision was to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mrs A and Mr F (jointly):
1. £962.31 in reimbursement for the invoice ending 13; and
2. simple interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from 25 November 2020 to 
the date of the reimbursement. If AAUICL considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs A and Mr F how 
much its taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if either of them 
asks for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate; and
3. £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs A disagreed with the provisional decision in part. She says, in summary, that:
The decision doesnt compensate for the water damage to the carpet which is now 
smelly and mouldy. 
AAUICL disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
Its engineer does not think that it is feasible that the ABS/DSC unit failure is a result 
of water ingress into the passenger compartment.
It cannot see how water would wick along the loom when the loom itself threads 
through a rubber grommet attached to the bulkhead. The grommet is in place to 
prevent chaffing and water from outside entering the interior of the vehicle. This 
would also prevent water running down the loom in the opposite direction. If the 
grommet was missing or had come loose, there would have been water ingress into the cabin even prior to faulty fitment of the windscreen.
The units are well documented as being prone to failure. Any failure, in the 
engineers opinion, is not related to water damage, as given the position of the unit it 
would be exposed to water off the road surface in any case. He can only attribute the 
failure of the unit to its age, design and general wear and tear and as a result this 
would not be covered by any insurance policy.
AAUICL cannot see how the ombudsman can find it responsible to the cost of any 
damages to 1) replace the ABS/DSC unit nor 2) contribution to replace the carpets of 
a aged car when a full valet was offered by the windscreen company. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was right-hand drive. I will refer to the offside of the car as meaning the drivers side
or right-hand side. I will refer to the nearside as meaning the (front-seat) passengers side or
left-hand side.
From the invoices, I see that the recorded mileage of the car was over 100,000.
From the video in early October 2020, I find that there was a warning light on the dashboard
before the replacement of the windscreen. 
But the warning light was a triangle with an exclamation mark. The warning light didnt show 
an icon of, for example, an engine or any words or letters, for example ABS. The video 
doesnt show any other relevant warning information save that the vehicle had only enough 
fuel for a range of 22 miles. So the video doesnt identify any specific fault, for example 
relating to the ABS.
From what the windscreen company has said and done, I find that its first attempt at
replacing the windscreen fell below a reasonable standard. It left an unsealed gap on the
nearside, through which water leaked. The windscreen company also damaged a sensor for
the automatic wipers. As AAUICL was responsible for dealing with claims, I hold it
responsible for these shortcomings and for the leak and its consequences.
From the invoice ending 13, I find that  by November 2020  the car had a warning light
relating to a fault with the ABS hydraulic unit. Thats only a few weeks after the replacement 
of the windscreen. So I find it unlikely that it was a coincidence that windscreen was leaking 
and the unit failed at around the same time.
AAUICLs evidence was that this unit was under the bonnet on the offside. And  if that were
correct  I would find it unlikely that a gap on the nearside of the windscreen would cause
damage under the bonnet on the offside.
But AAUICLs evidence came from the windscreen company. And that companys evidence
is that it made a phone call to a dealer franchised by the car-maker. That phone call hasnt
been made available to AAUICL or to us. So I place little weight on that evidence.
In response to the provisional decision, AAUICL has provided a summary of the opinion of 
its well-qualified engineer. But the summary doesnt clarify whether the unit was on the 
offside.I prefer the evidence of the garage that took responsibility to inspect the car and to gain
access to the ABS hydraulic unit and to replace it. That garage has  at least since the
invoice ending 13 dated 25 November 2020  attributed the failure of the unit to water
ingress.
The garages email nearly a year later in November 2021 is persuasive evidence of the 
following:
The ABS/DSC unit is located behind the nearside wheel arch liner quite low down
the bulkhead with the wiring loom coming from the passenger floor area along the
underneath forwards to connect into the unit, these are not accessible from the
engine bay and the under-vehicle plastic trays and wheel arch liner have to be
removed to access it.
The wiring loom exits the vehicle at the lowest point in the passenger footwell
compartment which is why the rain water eventually got into it [then] wicked along
into the control unit causing the damage.
And I find it more likely than not that the garage wouldve mentioned any defective grommet 
if it had seen evidence of that.
So I find that the leak from the nearside of the windscreen caused damage to the ABS unit 
on the nearside of the car.
I find it fair and reasonable to direct AAUICL to compensate Mrs A and Mr F for the financial 
loss and for the distress and inconvenience caused by the leak.
But first I will say what financial items I dont agree with in their claim.
The largest such item is the difference between the price of a new unit and the cost of the
salvaged unit fitted by the garage. From the invoice ending 13 I see that the cost for the
salvaged part (excluding labour) was £350.00 plus VAT. Mr F has said that the difference
between that and a new part was £2,390.09. In the context of a 2011 car, and the actual use
of a salvaged part, I dont find it fair reasonable to direct compensation for this difference.
Another such item (or group of items) is the invoice ending 12 (totalling about £324.00) for
a new battery and front wiper blades. Neither that invoice nor the garages later email
explain how the need to replace those items was caused by the leak. So I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct compensation for them.
Another item with which I disagree in part is Mr Fs round figure of £1,000.00 for the
estimated cost of replacing carpets. The invoice ending 13 contains an estimate of £533.45
plus fitting plus VAT. It doesnt estimate the cost of fitting. So I cant work out the total of the
estimate. In any event, theres no evidence that Mrs A or Mr F have had the carpets
replaced. In the context of a 2011 car, I find it fair and reasonable to direct compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience of driving around with damaged carpets, rather than for a 
financial loss.
Putting things right
Turning back to the items I agree with, they are all the items charged for in the invoice
ending 13 totalling £962.31. Im satisfied that all of them were caused by the leak for which
Ive held AAUICL responsible. So I find it fair and reasonable to direct AAUICL to pay Mrs A 
and Mr F that amount. As they have been out of pocket since about 25 November 2020, I 
will direct AAUICL to pay interest at our usual rate.In addition to the financial loss, AAUICL caused Mrs A and Mr F some stressful and
inconvenient issues. That started with wetness and condensation inside the car. The issues
also included the breakdown one evening outside the school. The issues also included the
urgent need to find and deal with the local garage, and the irritation of finding out that the
windscreen hadnt been replaced properly.
I give AAUICL credit for some steps towards putting things right. That includes the prompt
replacement of the windscreen for a second time  and the fixing of the wiper sensor.
But AAUICLs final response didnt accept responsibility for what the windscreen company
had done.
The impact on Mrs A and Mr F continued with the distress and inconvenience of driving 
around with damaged carpets and of pursuing their complaint with us.
Weighing up the impact (including driving around with damaged carpets), I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct AAUICL to pay Mrs A and Mr F (jointly and in addition to the 
compensation for financial loss) £200.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs A and Mr F (jointly):
1. £962.31 in reimbursement for the invoice ending 13; and
2. simple interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from 25 November 2020 to 
the date of the reimbursement. If AAUICL considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs A and Mr F how 
much its taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if either of them 
asks for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate; and
3. £200.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman