DRN-2397622
The complaint
Mr B complains that MCE Insurance Limited (MCE) unfairly cancelled his car insurance
policy. Hes also unhappy with how MCE have treated him.
Any reference to MCE includes its agents. Mr B is assisted in this matter by his mother, and
she has raised a number of points. For ease, Ill mainly refer to Mr B throughout this
decision.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr B took out a car insurance policy with MCE. He agreed to pay monthly for
the policy. Some time afterwards, Mr B asked to change his payment date to the last day of
each month. MCE told Mr B they couldnt accommodate his request.
In September 2019 Mr B asked MCE that his mother be added as the main point of contact
to deal with any communication or payment issues on his behalf. MCE say they removed
Mr Bs mothers contact details from the account in November 2019.
Mr B says he thought that although his earlier request to change his payment date hadnt
been accepted, he could still pay at the end of each month and hed pay a late payment
charge of £30 each time.
In January 2020 MCE sent Mr B reminders saying he needed to make a payment or his
policy would be cancelled. These included 14-day and 7-day cancelation notices. On 31
January Mr Bs mother was unable to get through to MCE on the phone, only through live
chat. The policy was then cancelled the following day.
Mr B complained to MCE. Hes said the whole experience caused him stress and anxiety.
MCE didnt uphold the main part of the complaint but offered Mr B £100 to apologise for
removing his mothers contact details from the account. Mr B remained unhappy and
referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he found that MCE
hadnt handled things as they shouldve and as a result felt Mr B had lost out. He
recommended that the £100 offer MCE had made was increased to £300 to recognise the
impact that this experience had on Mr B.
MCE didnt accept the investigators findings, but they offered to provide Mr B with a written
statement to show other insurers why he didnt need to declare the cancelation. Our
investigator put MCEs proposal to Mr B but he didnt accept it. The complaint was
passed to me for a decision and I explained that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint.
Mr B responded with some additional points and MCE responded to say theyd paid the 
£100 offer in February 2020. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having reviewed all of the evidence again, I see no reason to depart from my intended 
findings. 
Response from Mr B after Provisional decision
Mr B raised a number of points which Ill address for clarity.
In my provisional decision I didnt say MCE deleted the details. I said they removed his 
mothers details. As they werent deleted, presumably MCE re-added them as Mr Bs point of 
contact when the error was brought to their attention. Ultimately the issue in this case is what 
impact did MCEs actions have on Mr B and Ive found that £100 is a fair and reasonable 
acknowledgment that things couldve been better.
Mr B has also questioned what attempts MCE made to let customers know there were 
phone line issues on 31 January. As the phone issues werent an expected ongoing issue, I 
wouldnt reasonably expect MCE to have notified every customer. In any case, Mr B/his 
mother were able to use the live chat function on that day to communicate with MCE.
Mr B has asked about the written statement MCE offered to provide to show future insurers. 
Our investigator did ask Mr B/his mother about this proposal in July 2020 during a phone call 
and they were told that Mr B wanted to have an ombudsmans decision. This isnt a direction 
Ive instructed MCE to carry out in my decision, but Ive asked our investigator to ask MCE to 
provide this to Mr B.
Copy of Provisional decision
Mr B agreed to make payments on the 17th of each month when taking out the policy. MCE
have provided screenshots of what they say Mr B wouldve seen on their website at the time.
Directly beneath the option to select the payment date, it states: Please note this date
cannot be changed once your Payment Plan is active. So Im satisfied MCE made it clear to
Mr B when payments would need to be made.
Ive also seen a copy of the credit agreement MCE say Mr B wouldve signed. It states:
We will write to tell You what the minimum monthly payment is and the dates when it is due.
It goes on to outline the £30 late payment fee. So Im also satisfied MCE made Mr B aware
late payments would incur a fee.
In July 2019 MCE declined Mr Bs request to change the payment date to the end of the
month. MCE has said this is because their system didnt allow payment date changes. Whilst
this was unhelpful for Mr B, it wasnt unreasonable or unfair of MCE to decline this request
as theyd made it clear when Mr B took the policy out that this date couldnt be changed.
Ive reviewed the messages between Mr B/his mother and MCE alongside MCEs internal
system notes. 
These show communication around Mr B making payments at the end of each
month, and him incurring a £30 fee each month as a result. I think the impression Mr B got
was that he was okay to operate the account in this way. So I can understand why he sayshe felt frustration, stress and anxiety when the issue arose again in January about non-
payment.
I think MCE attempted to be flexible with Mr B. But I also think it should have
explained to him why operating the account in this way could mean hed continue to get
contact about missed payments.
Mr B gave MCE his mothers contact details so calls about missed payments would be
directed to her. MCE accept they made an error removing Mr Bs mothers details from the
account and this resulted in him receiving further calls about missed payments. However,
Ive seen a record from 21 November in which its been recorded that Mr Bs mother was
unhappy with calls from MCE and a note was added to not call her. So I think its most likely
her contact details were removed because of a misunderstanding. Mr B may have been
frustrated with the continued calls to him rather than his mother, but Im not persuaded this
was solely MCEs fault.
On 17 January 2020 MCE emailed Mr B to let him know his payment was late, a late
payment fee had been applied and if payment wasnt made by 24 January theyd contact
him again. Another email was sent on 24 January to Mr B letting him know that as payment
hadnt been made he was being given a seven-day cancelation notice and the policy would
be cancelled on 31 January if no payment was made. So Im satisfied that MCE let Mr B
know what the consequences would be if payment wasnt made.
Mr B and his mother made an effort to contact MCE on 31 January and it was unfortunate
that there were technical issues that day. They successfully contacted MCE on live chat and
agreed to call MCE at 9am on 1 February to make the missed payment. MCE wasnt
contacted as agreed, so it called Mr Bs mother three times. At around midday, MCE
cancelled the policy as no payment had been received.
I accept that given what had happened in previous months - with MCE accepting payments
late with an additional fee, Mr B and his mother may not have placed as much weight on the
seriousness of the cancelation notices from MCE as they otherwise might have. But
regardless, Im satisfied that MCE made Mr B aware of what would happen if he didnt make
payment by 31 January, or the following morning as he said he would. It follows that I think
MCE acted reasonably, and within the policy terms when cancelling the policy.
Mr B has told us he took out another policy with a different business but has ended up
paying more as he felt he needed to declare that the previous policy had been cancelled by
MCE. He also says he lost out on a one year no claims bonus. This is unfortunate as MCE
havent recorded it as a business cancelation on Mr Bs insurance record  so he didnt need
to declare any cancelation. I havent seen any evidence that MCE led Mr B to believe he did
need to declare it.
I dont make any award related to the higher premiums Mr B paid on his new policy or the no
claims bonus hes missed out on as Ive decided that MCE fairly cancelled his policy and
arent responsible for Mr Bs decision to declare a cancelation. Its positive that MCE have
offered to provide Mr B with a written statement to show future insurers. Given Mr Bs
circumstances, I think this would be useful and he also has the option of speaking to his
current insurer about a potential recalculation of his premiums.
Summary
Whilst Im not taking away from what mustve been a difficult few months for Mr B, Ive also
kept in mind that MCE werent made fully aware that Mr B was a vulnerable customer whilst
all this was going on. I accept things couldve been handled better. For example - thenumerous calls that were made to Mr B chasing payment after hed asked for his mother to
be his point of contact will have caused him stress, anxiety and frustration. But overall I find
that the £100 compensation MCE offered Mr B is a fair and reasonable way to acknowledge
that they couldve handled things better.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman