DRN-1883172
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold a reviewable whole of life policy, which is operated by 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as Scottish Provident. 
Mr G says Scottish Provident should have explained to him that his policy was subject to 
costly reviews and that it was set up on a maximum cover basis, as it has now failed two 
reviews. He says if he had known of the potential for his policy to be altered so significantly, 
he might not have taken it out at all.   
What happened
Mr G applied for his policy through a third-party financial adviser in March 1998. It originally 
offered him a sum assured of £200,000 with a £90 monthly premium and was provided by 
Scottish Mutual (now Scottish Provident). 
After the first ten years, the policy was subject to reviews every five years. The policy passed 
the first review. However, it failed reviews in 2013 and 2018. 
At those times, Scottish Provident wrote to Mr G and copied its letters to his financial 
adviser. It offered him options to keep his sum assured the same or increase it to maintain 
the sum assured. On both occasions, Mr G opted to reduce his sum assured, firstly from 
£332,455 to £197,712 and in 2018 from £215,897 to £132,531.  
In May 2019, Mr G complained to Scottish Provident. He said that prior to 2013, the policy 
had only been subject to increases of approximately 3% per annum, for agreed RPI 
increases. However, as a result of the reviews in 2013 and 2018, the premium was proposed 
to raise by 104% and 93% respectively. Mr G said these reviews had made his policy 
unaffordable. This was borne out by the fact he had instead chosen to reduce the policys 
sum assured rather than accept the higher premiums.  He said that whilst he accepted that 
some increase might be applied at each review, the excessive nature of the increase would 
have affected his decision to take out the policy, if he had been told about it from the outset.  
Scottish Provident rejected the complaint. It did not think it had been unreasonable in the 
way it had conducted the policy reviews. It explained how the reviews were operated in 
accordance with the terms and conditions. It said it was inherent that the cost of life cover 
increases with age. Further, the likelihood of the premium failing a review in later years was 
higher with maximum cover option policies when compared to standard cover, as these 
would have had a higher premium from the outset.
It also explained that when calculating future premiums for the next five years, it had to make 
certain assumptions based on future growth and mortality rates in accordance with actuarial 
calculations along with the cost of future policy fees. It said it had done so fairly and 
therefore could not agree with Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G referred the complaint to this service. In relation to Scottish Providents reply to his 
complaint, he said he acknowledged the policy could be set up on different bases, he still 
believes that this should have been indicated to him so that he could make an informed 
decision. Mr G feels it is not satisfactory to simply say that the policy types would be treated 
differently.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint. He said he did not think it should succeed. He firstly 
noted that Scottish Provident hadnt sold the policy to Mr G, so it wasnt responsible for what 
he had been told in 1988. However, he did review the communications Mr G had received 
from Scottish Provident since the policy began.  
The investigator did not think Scottish Provident had been misleading about the reviewable 
nature of the policy or that it had undertaken the reviews in an unfair way. As such, he felt 
Scottish Provident had fairly refused the complaint.  
Mr G disagreed with our investigator. He said he felt Scottish Provident still had 
accountability for not explaining to him what the extent of the policy review increases would 
be.  He said he still contended that Scottish Provident had a duty to quantify the likely extent 
of the review increase because if he had realised the amounts then he could have discussed 
taking out standard level cover with the financial adviser. 
Mr G also said that he was of the view that Scottish Provident had the financial expertise to 
be able to highlight the likely scale of any forthcoming review increases. 
Scottish Provident didnt have any further comments to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Though I realise my decision will be disappointing for Mr G, I believe the investigator 
reached the right outcome. That means I wont be asking Scottish Provident to do anything 
further.  
I realise Mr G feels that since Scottish Provident is responsible for administering his policy, 
that it is also liable for what was said to him at the time of the sale in 1998. But, I dont take 
the same view. The suitability of the policy for Mr Gs circumstances, and the choice 
between the selection of the basis for the cover was a matter between Mr G and his IFA at 
the time, not Scottish Provident. 
And though Mr G has said otherwise, several of the points Mr G has made relate back to 
what would have been discussed with the IFA. But I cant consider those points here. That 
adviser was not an appointed representative of Scottish Provident (then Scottish Mutual), 
nor was the adviser acting for Scottish Provident in any capacity. On that basis, Scottish 
Provident is not responsible for the sale of the policy itself. That means my remit is restricted 
to actions Scottish Provident could be liable for; I can only look at whether it is acting 
reasonably in how it operates the policy, and whether the information provided from the 
outset was clear and didnt mislead Mr G in any way. 
I understand our investigator has explained to Mr G that if he has a complaint about the 
advice or the sale of the policy in 1998, he can pursue this with the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme directly, since the IFA is in default. If Mr G has any further questions 
about this, he can of course direct them to our investigator.  
As our investigator set out, the basis of the cover is that the premiums are used to sustain 
the policys sum assured. After the first ten years, the policy is reviewed periodically (looking 
ahead five years) by the provider to establish if the premiums paid and the underlying 
investment have sufficient value to sustain the cost of life cover going forward. If this is not 
the case, then Scottish Provident can vary the terms of the policy, specifically by lowering the sum assured as Mr G has chosen, or by offering a higher premium to maintain the 
current sum assured. 
The policy terms (standard provisions) issued to Mr G at the time of the sale explain this. It 
says:
Policy Reviews
We will carry out a Policy Review at each Review Date. The Schedule shows the first 
Review Date. There will be more Review Dates at regular intervals thereafter. At each 
Policy Review, we will:
decide whether we can maintain the Sum Assured until the next Review Date, and
inform you of any changes required to the policy.
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
known facts such as their respective ages and health declarations as well as assumptions 
about a number of different factors, including the future cost of life cover and investment 
performance  and these assumptions are based on predictions.  
In terms of the policy premiums, the first part is used to pay for the cost of the life assurance. 
The remainder is invested into a fund. This investment has the aim of growing sufficiently to 
cover the shortfall when the policy reaches the point that the cost of cover becomes greater 
than the premium being paid. This is because life cover costs increase with age, as the 
likelihood of making a claim increases as the life or lives assured get older. 
So, Scottish Provident issues annual documentation to Mr G explaining the yearly fund value 
and future life cover costs. These determine whether the premiums he has paid could 
maintain the level of cover for the next five years, or whether hed need to increase it to pay 
for the increased cost of life cover. As Ive explained above, policies are reviewed regularly 
to check how theyre performing against the original assumptions.
I dont find that Scottish Provident has acted unfairly in the way it carries out Mr Gs policy 
reviews. I have also considered what he was told from the outset, since I know Mr G fees 
very strongly that Scottish Provident ought to have told him about what could happen in the 
future. However, policy illustrations can only give an indication of what the cost of premiums 
are likely to be; they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of future premiums. Mr G 
couldnt therefore have been told from the outset how their policy premium might change 
(assuming he wished to maintain the sum assured rather than have it reduced in line with 
the terms).
Scottish Provident did set this out clearly in the Key Features documentation issued to Mr G 
in 1998. It said:
Risk factors
Investment performance and other factors such as our administration costs and claims 
experience may be different than expected. If they are worse than expected and our 
charges for administration and/or the benefit cover increase, your premium may need 
to increase at a review to maintain the cover you have selected.
How long will my cover last?
The amount of cover available for your premium is shown in your Personalised Key 
Features. The cost depends on the type of cover you select and other factors, like your age, sex, health, occupation and whether you smoke. 
If you select whole of life cover you can choose from three bases of cover, standard, 
career or maximum. Standard basis is designed to provide the same amount of cover 
throughout your life. Career cover is intended to last until age 65 when your premium 
would be expected to increase. If you select maximum basis it will provide the highest 
initial amount of cover per pound of premium. You can also select any specified 
amount of cover between standard and maximum. Whichever whole of life basis you 
choose, your cover is guaranteed to last for ten years, the plan is then reviewed. The 
higher the amount of cover you choose, the more likely it is that after the review the 
amount of cover will need to reduce or the premium increase to maintain your cover. 
I believe the above information was clear. Though Scottish Provident could not tell Mr G 
what would happen after ten, fifteen or twenty years, it did explain the nature of maximum 
basis cover and showed that the higher the cover, the greater the chance that the policy 
reviews would fail and require amendment of the premium or sum assured. This information, 
along with the advice Mr G would have received is reasonable in setting out the prospect of 
reviews, and the variables that may affect the cost of sustaining the policy in later years. 
Therefore, I do not believe Scottish Provident ought to have done anything differently in 
1998, nor do I find it to be acting inconsistently or unfairly now.  
Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mr G, given how he has explained that the prospect of 
future premium increases will be unaffordable for him, but I dont consider Scottish Provident 
to be at fault for the maximum cover basis being chosen, or that the type of policy includes 
reviews. Of course, Mr G may want to consider seeking financial advice about his next 
steps.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman