DRN-3940364
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint arises out of a personal injury claim she made on her Admiral Insurance
(Gibraltar) Limited motor legal expenses insurance policy.
Mrs C says Admiral left her without legal representation midway through litigation and that
this has prejudiced her claim.
What happened
Mrs C was involved in a road traffic incident in 2016. Following the incident she made a
claim on her motor legal expenses insurance policy, underwritten by Admiral Insurance
(Gibraltar) Limited. Admiral appointed one of their panel firms to act for her in that claim. Mrs
C says the panel firm were negligent in the handling of her claim; they missed court
deadlines, didnt address specific issues raised by Judges in the claim, and didnt make
applications when required. In addition, she says they failed to issue the claim in the correct
track which led to delays and costs rising unnecessarily as well as considerable criticism
from Judges during the course of the claim.
Mrs C says the panel firms conduct prejudiced her claim which is still in progress. The
Barrister instructed on her claim provided a note setting out the problems with the panel
firms conduct and the difficulties Mrs C was facing with her claim as a result. The note also
contained the Judges comments about how the claim had been conducted. The Barrister
recommended that Mrs C start negotiations to settle her claim if possible. Following the
Barristers advice, the panel firm terminated their retainer with Mrs C on the basis that there
was a conflict of interest in them continuing to act for her.
Mrs C approached Admiral directly to help her with legal representation and concluding the
claim in the best way she could going forward. She also found a Solicitor to act for her at
short notice and asked Admiral if they would cover that firms costs. In January 2022 Admiral
agreed and confirmed this both to her and her new Solicitor. They also said their claims
handlers A would deal with fees and provided their details.
In March 2020 A integrated with another firm of claims handlers, B who took over
administering the claim on behalf of Admiral. Mrs Cs Solicitor approached B directly who
said they needed further information before they could consider their appointment. After
further discussions B took the position that Mrs Cs Solicitor would need to act on a
conditional fee arrangement (CFA) if cover was to be provided. Mrs Cs Solicitors refused
this. They said the claim was at a place now that the risk was too great to them to take it on,
on that basis. Since then Mrs C hasnt had the benefit of funding so has had some limited
help from her own Solicitors at her own cost. Shes also not been able to obtain any
agreement to settle the claim from Admiral as the legal expenses insurer for the panel firm.
Mrs C feels that being left without funded representation for over a year has compromised
her claim and caused her considerable stress and inconvenience. She wants Admiral to fund
her Solicitors costs from the date they agreed until the claim is concluded and compensate
her for any adverse impact on her claim as a result of being left without funded
representation. She also wants Admiral to compensate her for the stress and inconvenience
caused to her.
Our investigator considered Mrs Cs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. She said
that Admiral should fund her Solicitors costs accordingly and pay her £350 for the distress
and inconvenience caused. She also noted any financial detriment to Mrs C in the outcome
of any settlement of her claim attributable to Admirals failure to provide her with
representation should be compensated and that this could be determined by a cost
assessor. If a payment is made she said interest of 8% per year simple should be added.
Overall, the investigator said Mrs C shouldnt be adversely affected by having to pay legal
costs as a result of any settlement thats attributable to Admirals failure to provide her with
funded representation.
Mrs C accepted the investigators view but B, on behalf of Admiral, havent. They say:
When Mrs C instructed her own Solicitors, this wasnt sanctioned under the policy as
required by the policy terms;
Mrs Cs Solicitors failed to agree to the conditions under the policy that would allow for
their instruction. That was why they werent instructed;
Its evident that Mrs C, her Solicitors and Barrister consider the panel firm to be
responsible for the cost position she now finds herself in so her complaint should be
directed to the panel firm or The Legal Ombudsman to resolve;
Once Mrs C instructed her own Solicitors without their knowledge or consent, it was
incumbent on her to obtain and follow their reasonable advice. She cant rely on not
taking action when a retainer was entered into to conclude the claim with her own
representative.
The policy doesnt provide for the costs of Mrs Cs own Solicitors. Although Admiral sent
a letter confirming these fees would be met, they didnt have authority to make this
decision. The position was rectified when it was referred to B. There was a short period
of time between this letter being sent and the position being corrected so Mrs C wasnt in
any doubt about the correct position for very long.
If I think the letter is binding on Admiral the complaint should be raised directly against
them rather than under the motor legal protection policy.
Mrs C received advice to accept an offer put to her by the other party in the litigation so
she should have done this. B had no objection to the offer being accepted out of time but 
they reserved their position in respect of costs.
There is suggestion in the investigators view that B should make up any difference in the
offer made to Mrs C by the other party. Its not clear why B should do this. B isnt Mrs Cs
representative and the Ombudsman has no scope to make such a request which should
be directed at the panel firm by Mrs C.
Admiral has been ordered to pay £350 in compensation to Mrs C. The claim was raised
in relation to the motor legal protection policy so this would fall to B for payment if
maintained by me, which is unfair and incorrect.
They have not been provided with the outcome of the claim and any terms of settlement
agreed by Mrs C. Theyd like this to be provided so a further review can be considered
by them. If Mrs C provides this, they can also consider whether any adverse costs have
arisen.
In January 2023 I issued a provisional decision upholding Mrs Cs complaint for some 
additional and some different reasons to those reached by the investigator and directing a 
different award for Admiral to put things right. I said:
Although my role is not to determine any wrongdoing on the part of the panel firm, its clear
to me that following their involvement Mrs C found herself in a difficult position, both in
relation to the litigation and because she was no longer represented in those proceedings.The Barristers note of the Judges comments and that Judges references to a previous
Judges comments makes clear that some significant things had gone wrong for Mrs C on
this claim and needed to be put right. And its possible that some of those things couldnt be
put right, as things didnt happen as they should have. But thats not something I can
determine. That will be a matter for the Legal Ombudsman, if Mrs C cant resolve things with
the panel firm directly.
What Im looking at is Admirals duty to her as her legal expenses insurer when things did go
wrong. Given the position she found herself in, I think its reasonable that Admiral agreed to
help her by funding her own choice of Solicitors to help conclude the claim as best they
could. Ive reviewed Admirals letter sent to her which says:
As per our discussion, we confirmed that we will cover the legal fees associated with your
new Solicitors..
We have a provider who deals with the fees and their details are below.
They then go on to say that the above has been forwarded to Mrs Cs Solicitors. Given the
content of that statement, I find it difficult to see how B, now on behalf of Admiral can say
that there was no agreement to Mrs Cs Solicitors being instructed. And I dont understand
why Admiral, as the underwriter of the policy, isnt authorised to make such a decision on its
own policy. What is even more peculiar is that B refer to any finding by this Service being
binding on Admiral rather than the motor legal protection insurer.
In this decision Im considering Mrs Cs complaint against Admiral as the underwriter of the
motor legal protection policy. Unless B are saying Admiral authorised Mrs Cs own Solicitors
fees in some other capacity, Im not sure I follow Bs point. Its true that we often consider the
actions of a claims handler as those of the legal expenses insurer when reaching
conclusions on complaints such at these but that is where the claims handler is acting on
behalf of the insurer. The question of who takes responsibility for any wrongdoing between
an insurer and claims handler after a decision has been made by us is a matter entirely for
those parties. Where a decision has been made by this Service against an insurer, that is
the responsible party in law once a policyholder accepts that decision.
In this case I take the view that Admiral agreed to fund Mrs Cs own Solicitors costs and
then didnt do that. Instead, it appointed B who took an entirely different position, and it
seems, one based on the policy terms. To be clear, I dont take the view that Admirals
decision to fund Mrs Cs own Solicitors costs was subject to the policy terms and conditions.
That means it wasnt subject to the funding arrangements set out in that policy nor indeed
the indemnity limit. It was a decision based on the very difficult position Mrs C found herself
in after the panel firm stopped acting for her. So it was wrong for B, on behalf of Admiral, to
adopt the position it did. If things had gone as they should have, Mrs Bs Solicitors costs
should have been funded from the point that Admiral agreed to them, until such time that
those Solicitors could either settle the matter favourably, or if the alternative was still a viable
option, take the matter to conclusion, as long as there was a good chance shed do better at
trial. Instead, Admiral didnt intervene at all when B adopted the position it did and as far as
Im concerned, Bs position represented that of Admirals as soon as they were instructed to
claims handle for them. For the reasons Ive mentioned, I take the view that the position B
adopted was both wrong and unreasonable. Because of that, I think that Admiral needs to
pay for Mrs Cs own Solicitors costs from the point they agreed to, until the matter is
concluded in the way Ive described.
I have no doubt that Admirals failure to help Mrs C in the way that it agreed to had a
detrimental effect on her. Ive seen her continued correspondence to B asking for them to
fund her Solicitors costs as agreed. This wouldve been both stressful and inconvenientgiven that litigation was ongoing. And although Mrs C did instruct Solicitors to deal with the
claim, she did so on the basis that Admiral would fund their costs. They didnt so I imagine
shes had to either do so herself or offer them assurances that shell pay their costs if
Admiral dont. That, in my view is unfair given Admirals earlier agreement.
Mrs C has also talked about having to take limited action through her Solicitors to limit costs.
Theres a suggestion that she was doing a lot of the work herself without the knowledge or
experience to run what now seems to be a multi-track claim as directed by one of the Judges
dealing with the claim at interim stages. Because of this I dont think the award of
compensation for trouble and upset goes far enough. Rather I think an award of £1250 is
more appropriate. I say so because it takes into account a year without funded
representation despite Admirals promise of this and represents compensation for the stress
and inconvenience this would have caused during that time.
The issue of detriment however is not straightforward. I dont know what stage the claim has
reached and whether its been settled. If its been settled, I dont know what terms it settled
on. And I cant say whether Admirals actions in not providing funding for Mrs Cs own
Solicitors costs when it agreed to do so had an impact on the ultimate amount Mrs C has or
is yet to recover nor indeed any costs that she might have to pay the other party. And I dont
think this is a matter that I can easily determine. I take on board what B has said about the
panel firms actions having an adverse effect on Mrs Cs claim as a whole. And although
they were appointed by Admiral, I cant say that Admiral are responsible for this. Thats
something only The Legal Ombudsman or a Court can determine.
The best way to determine Admirals liability to Mrs C, is for an independent Barrister to be
instructed by them, at their own cost to determine whether their failure to fund Mrs Cs
Solicitors led to a detrimental outcome for her. By that I mean any adverse costs which might
have impacted on her as well as any need for her to accept a reduced settlement or award
that might otherwise have been achievable but for their actions. Ive set out how Admiral
should do this below and that they should pay anything the Barrister advises is due to Mrs C
as a result of their actions.
Putting things right
In summary, Admiral should:
Fund Mrs Cs own Solicitors costs from the time they agreed until such time that those
Solicitors could either settle the matter favourably, or if the alternative was still a viable
option, take the matter to conclusion, as long as there was a good chance shed do
better at trial;
Pay interest of 8% per year simple on any Solicitors fees Mrs C has had to pay herself
between that time from the time she paid them, until they are paid;
Pay Mrs C £1250 in compensation for the trouble and upset they caused in failing to fund
the costs they agreed to;
Instruct an independent Barrister at their own cost to determine whether their failure to
fund Mrs Cs Solicitors led to a detrimental outcome for her. By that I mean any adverse
costs which might have impacted on her as well as any need for her to accept a reduced
settlement or award that might otherwise have been achievable but for their actions.
Admiral should then pay the difference between what Mrs C achieves and what she
should have achieved had things have gone as they should.If proceedings havent been concluded and Mrs C still needs Admirals input into any
settlement offers that might be made to her- particularly on the issue of costs, Admiral
should engage proactively with these discussions and do their best to assist her in
achieving an end to this dispute on the best possible terms, whilst being mindful that they
would only need to extend to funding such costs if theyve arisen as a result of their own
conduct in not arranging paid representation sooner. They should instruct an
independent Barrister to advise on this issue whilst its still live and prior to matters
settling. If the Barrister determines any payments of costs or short falls on settlement
should be picked up by them as a result of their failure to provide representation then
Admiral should pay Mrs C this.
If settlement cant be achieved and the matter proceeds to trial then Admiral should
obtain the independent advice of a Barrister at the conclusion of the trial and pay Mrs C
for anything the Barrister determines is Admirals responsibility. For the avoidance of
doubt, that responsibility arises out of its failure to fund Mrs Cs own Solicitors costs
when it agreed to and not the policy terms themselves, so they are not applicable when
determining the matter.
I asked both parties to provide me with their comments and evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both provided a response. Mrs C said:
She wants Admiral to fund her Solicitors costs from the time she engaged them and not 
from the date of Admirals letter confirming this, which was January 2022. She says the 
panel firm told her to engage a new Solicitor in November 2021 and she told Admiral 
about this. She also says her own Solicitor wrote to Admiral in December 2021 and she 
chased Admiral in January 2022 for confirmation that everything was in order and that 
their costs were covered. Admiral reassured her they were providing their authority to 
pay her Solicitors costs, which would encompass those incurred from the beginning of 
their instruction.
Shed like Admiral to appoint a different claims handler to B to deal with the 
administration of this award given her poor experience with B.
Despite Admirals agreement to pay her legal costs, they didnt assist her. She registered 
an extensive complaint and asked for them to intervene given their earlier agreement. 
Admirals complaints department still havent replied to her complaint other than to 
apologise for the delay in dealing with it. They also wrote separately to say that the legal 
protection section of her insurance was not underwritten by them. She now knows this is 
not true.
Admirals refusal to assist her or give any advice even though they knew she was 
unrepresented and that Court deadlines were looming or being missed caused her 
considerable distress. 
Admiral and B are aware of the consequences of the offer made to her by the other party 
in June 2020, which was re-offered in March 2022. She hasnt been able to accept those 
offers without their agreement so she shouldnt be responsible for the consequences of 
this.
Shed like Admiral to comply with my award in a timely manner. 
B, on behalf of Admiral have also responded. Theyve said:
Admiral are not able to provide authority to Mrs C under the policy, but rather B are, 
which is why they were appointed in this case. 
Because of this Admirals letter to Mrs C shouldnt be viewed as approval to incur fees 
under the policy, particularly because B confirmed the position very quickly. Because of 
this there was no detriment to Mrs C. 
Mrs Cs Solicitor wasnt prepared to act under the terms of the policy, so cover wasnt 
available. My decision means that the policy conditions under which all claims are underpinned are 
being dismissed by this Service.
They are being asked to provide cover to Mrs Cs Solicitor for costs incurred as a result 
of the panel firms actions, which I have agreed is a matter for the Legal Ombudsman. 
They are being asked to fund a claim where cover doesnt exist as the policy only 
provides cover for a CFA. They cant provide cover for Solicitors fees where the policy 
doesnt provide for it and the claim isnt proportionate to pursue. And this Service agrees 
that theyre not required to fund cases that might cost more than the value of the claim.
The current position of the claim should now be determined so a decision can be taken 
as to how it should be pursued. Theyve already advised Mrs C they have no objection to 
an offer being accepted so if the claim still proceeds, Mrs C will not have mitigated her 
loss by continuing with the claim. 
They have reserved their position regarding adverse costs in respect of the offers, 
however they have not been advised of the outcome, and, without knowing the position 
they cant consider the full impact of it. 
They would like me to seek the current position from Mrs C and make this available to 
them so that they can consider this in full along with any revisions to my decision. 
They dont agree that a Barrister should be appointed to determine whether they have 
prejudiced Mrs Cs position. The claim was previously handled by the panel firm so any 
detriment and settlement will arise out of their conduct. That falls to Mrs C to pursue 
against the panel firm directly. And this Service cant direct them to deal with a 
professional negligence claim against their panel firm.  
They dont think Mrs C would consider any advice obtained by a Barrister to be 
independent. 
Its Mrs Cs own Solicitor who has refused to handle the claim under the policy terms so 
Admiral cant be held responsible for this.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld for the 
reasons set out within my provisional decision. In reaching this conclusion Ive taken into 
account everything both parties have said, and Im not persuaded Ive reached the wrong 
conclusion. 
I appreciate that Admiral doesnt agree with my findings. Many of their submissions are the 
same as those made before I reached my provisional decision, so I dont intend to address 
those again. I will however explain why their new submissions make no difference to the 
outcome Ive reached below.
I appreciate that the submissions made in this case are by B, rather than Admiral directly 
who made the decision to fund Mrs Cs Solicitors costs after the panel firm stopped acting 
for her. I understand that B dont agree with the initial stance Admiral took and that seems to 
be the problem in this complaint. 
Ultimately Admiral are the underwriters of the policy which means that they are responsible 
for the way Mrs Cs claim was handled. And as the underwriters of the policy, they are 
entitled to decide whether to offer cover that might not be in line with the policy terms. And 
thats what happened here. Admiral agreed to provide Mrs C with cover for her own 
Solicitors costs, outside the scope of the policy. It doesnt matter whether they did so 
because of the actions of the panel firm- as I said, Im not determining any liability on their 
part because that falls outside my remit- the fact is that they made this decision. What then happened was that they didnt follow through on their promise because B objected to this- 
and Admiral then did nothing to correct the position. I gave clear reasons in my provisional 
decision for why I thought Admiral was responsible for what happened here so Im unclear 
on why B have continued to push back on this position. 
Mrs C has asked if I can ensure Admiral doesnt appoint B to administer the award I 
provisionally reached. Thats understandable given their position. But I also dont know 
whether Admiral have other claims handlers that can administer the award. Because of this I 
am adding a recommendation to my previous award that Admiral appoint other claims 
handlers, if theyre able to do to administer this award. But if they arent able to, I would 
expect Admiral to give very clear instructions to B to comply with my award. If they dont, Mrs 
C will be entitled to enforce my decision, should she accept it. Further information about that 
can be found on our website. 
For clarity, my award is not intended to be in line with the policy terms- it is outside the scope 
of those, much like the offer made to Mrs C by Admiral to pay her Solicitors costs. 
I understand Mrs C wants me to direct Admiral to pay her Solicitors costs from the time they 
were incurred. From what shes said she wants me to be explicit about the start date of 
those costs. The letter from Admiral suggests an agreement was reached to pay those costs 
before the letter was sent when it says As per our discussion, we confirmed that we will 
cover the legal fees associated with your new Solicitors... I dont know exactly when that 
discussion and agreement was given but I take the view that Solicitors costs should be 
payable from the time Admiral agreed to pay them. I dont have anything more from Admiral 
to determine when that was. Mrs C says that she engaged Solicitors on the panel firms 
advice. But thats not when Admiral agreed to those costs. I can only direct payment from 
the time that Admiral accepted responsibility. 
Ive also thought about Admirals position on the redress Ive set out. I dont agree that 
Admiral should be entitled to take a view on things once the position in the litigation has 
become apparent. My award takes account of the fact that Admiral have done something 
wrong and must do more to put things right. In this case that extends to an independent 
determination by a Barrister- who has his/her own professional rules and regulator- as to 
whether Admiral have prejudiced Mrs Cs position with their failure to provide her with 
funding for representation when they said they would. That has nothing to do with the panel 
firms conduct and the Barrister is not being asked to look at that. 
Admiral have said that Mrs C might not think the Barrister is independent. She hasnt made 
any submissions to this effect and as Ive said, Barristers are independent professionals. But 
I appreciate that she might want to be involved in the selection of the Barrister. Ive 
explained how this should be conducted in my revised award of redress below to help 
ensure fairness.
 Putting things right
Admiral should:
Fund Mrs Cs own Solicitors costs from the time they agreed for them to be incurred until 
such time that those Solicitors could either settle the matter favourably, or if the 
alternative was still a viable option, take the matter to conclusion, as long as there was a 
good chance shed do better at trial;
Pay interest of 8% per year simple on any Solicitors fees Mrs C has had to pay herself
between that time from the time she paid them, until they are paid;
Pay Mrs C £1250 in compensation for the trouble and upset they caused in failing to fund
the costs they agreed to;
Instruct an independent Barrister at their own cost to determine whether their failure to
fund Mrs Cs Solicitors led to a detrimental outcome for her. By that I mean any adverse
costs which might have impacted on her as well as any need for her to accept a reduced
settlement or award that might otherwise have been achievable but for their actions.
Admiral should then pay the difference between what Mrs C achieves and what she
should have achieved had things have gone as they should.
If proceedings havent been concluded and Mrs C still needs Admirals input into any
settlement offers that might be made to her- particularly on the issue of costs, Admiral
should engage proactively with these discussions and do their best to assist her in
achieving an end to this dispute on the best possible terms, whilst being mindful that they
would only need to extend to funding such costs if theyve arisen as a result of their own
conduct in not arranging paid representation sooner. They should instruct an
independent Barrister to advise on this issue whilst its still live and prior to matters
settling. Mrs C should be given the choice of three Barristers to choose from in this 
regard. If the Barrister determines any payments of costs or short falls on settlement
should be picked up by them as a result of their failure to provide representation then
Admiral should pay Mrs C this.
If settlement cant be achieved and the matter proceeds to trial then Admiral should
obtain the independent advice of the same Barrister at the conclusion of the trial and pay 
Mrs C for anything the Barrister determines is Admirals responsibility. For the avoidance 
of doubt, that responsibility arises out of its failure to fund Mrs Cs own Solicitors costs
when it agreed to and not the policy terms themselves, so they are not applicable when
determining the matter.
In addition, I recommend that Admiral appoint alternative claims handlers to B, if theyre able 
to do so to administer this award. But if they arent able to, I expect Admiral to give very clear 
instructions to B to comply with it.My final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint against Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited and direct them to 
put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman