DRN-3479682
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about a life policy that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc 
(SJP) sold them. Specifically, they are unhappy that the annual premium increases are 
different to the Average Earnings Index.
What happened
In 2005, Mr and Mrs T received advice from SJP. SJP made a recommendation for a flexible 
life policy to be written in trust to provide for a potential inheritance tax liability. The policy 
was set up with an initial sum assured of £300,400 for an annual contribution of around 
£3,250. The policy was set up to increase in line with the Average Earnings Index.
In Mr and Mrs Ts suitability letter, SJP said:
Both the sum assured and the premium are set to increase each year in line with the 
average earnings index.
Each year SJP sent Mr and Mrs T an indexation letter which outlined how much the premium 
would be and what the percentage increase of the sum assured was. In 2019, Mr and Mrs 
Ts indexation letter also showed the percentage increase of the premium, rather than just 
the figure. This was higher than the Average Earnings Index and so they complained. 
SJP explained that the suitability letter in 2005 was incorrect. It said that the sum assured 
would increase in line with the Average Earnings Index, but the premium would increase by 
an amount sufficient to maintain the new sum assured. It said the key features document 
and terms outlined this and that the sentence in the suitability letter was an error. It 
acknowledged this wouldve caused confusion and offered £250 compensation. SJP said the 
policy had run in the way it was supposed to.
Our Investigator felt the offer made was fair. He said he understood that it must have been 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs T to see the percentage increase of the premium was different to 
that of the sum assured, but he was satisfied the policy worked in line with the terms. And he 
said the actual increase of the premiums was set out correctly each year, so Mr and Mrs T 
were always aware of how much they would be paying. He didnt think that theyd have done 
anything differently had the error not been in the suitability letter.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. They explained that they went ahead with the policy with the 
understanding that it would always been affordable as they were aware of the percentage 
increase of the premium each year. They said they wouldnt have done this had they been 
made aware that the premium would increase by a different percentage to the sum assured. 
They felt SJP should increase its offer to £1,000 for the trouble and upset it had caused 
them. They asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator. I think the offer SJP 
has made is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Its not disputed that the suitability letter Mr and Mrs T were sent in 2005 contained an error. 
The policy premiums didnt increase in line with the Average Earnings Index  but the sum 
assured did. But Ive seen the policy illustration as well as the terms of the policy and the key 
features document. This says:
Your Life Coverwill normally increase each year in line with the Average Earnings 
Index
Whenever your cover is increased, your contributions will go up by a greater proportion than 
the increase in cover
So, I think it was made clear in the documentation that the increase to the premiums would 
be higher than the Average Earnings Index. Im also satisfied that all documents refer to the 
sum assured increasing in line with the index, rather than the premiums.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs T had a relationship with their SJP adviser and trusted what 
he said. And I can see that they were expecting the premiums to go up at the same rate as 
the sum assured. But I can also see the annual indexation letters they were sent. Each of 
these contained how much the premium was going to be for the following year, so it was 
possible to see that this was a higher percentage increase than the sum assured. So, whilst I 
understand seeing the percentage rate more recently wouldve been a shock, I dont think 
that theyve been misinformed throughout the life of the policy.
Most importantly here, Ive needed to consider whether Mr and Mrs T wouldve done 
something differently had the error not occurred. I can see they wanted this policy for a 
mitigation of a potential inheritance tax liability. And the indexation option was selected to 
account for this as their estate could expand. I understand that they felt that they could 
predict the premium increases because they thought they would rise in line with the Average 
Earnings Index, however I dont think that was truly the case. The Average Earnings Index 
changed over the years, so it wouldnt be possible to predict the increases from the outset of 
the policy. And, I dont think that they wouldve done something differently if theyd been told 
the premium would increase at a different rate in their suitability letter. This is because they 
wanted this type of policy, and the way it works is common for these types of policies. Also, 
Im satisfied all other documentation they received set out that only the sum assured would 
increase at the same rate as the Average Earnings Index.
Their policy allowed for the indexation to be stopped, the illustration set out how premium 
increases are calculated and gave an indication of what these could look like and I can see 
that Mr and Mrs T continued the cover each year having been told the new premium to 
support the increased sum assured. So, whilst I understand that the percentage increase 
wasnt what they were expecting, I do think they were made aware overall that this would be 
different to the Average Earnings Index.
The initial mistake in the suitability letter has caused Mr and Mrs T some confusion, so I 
think the offer SJP has made for £250 is fair and reasonable for this. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think the absence of that error wouldve led them to make different 
decisions. I also think SJP has made it clear in other documentation that it was only the sum 
assured that increased in line with the Average Earnings Index.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, the settlement offer of £250 St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc is fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking it to do anything more. It must 
now pay this to Mr and Mrs T upon their acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T as 
trustees of the T Trust to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman