DRN-3997633
The complaint
Miss F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to protect her from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money 
once shed reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Miss F complains that Barclays wont refund the money she lost to an investment scam. In 
October 2020, Miss F was approached by a close family friend who shed known for over 15 
years. The friend told her hed made good profits from investing in cryptocurrency and 
explained there was an upcoming zoom presentation for prospective investors which she 
should attend. 
The presentation hosted by a company Ill refer to as B. There were 10 attendees and the 
presenter appeared very professional. The presenter explained B offered investments in up 
to 24 different currency pairs, 9 stocks including Google and Tesla, and 9 cryptocurrencies 
and was registered under the Australian Investment and Security Commission (ASIC). The 
presenter showed testimonials of previous success stories and explained it was possible to 
earn a commission from making successful referrals to new investors. 
After the presentation, Miss F checked B was registered on the ASIC. She also found Bs 
social media channel, which featured a video from the Chief Operating Officer, and she 
accessed the website which included a live trading room, an online chat facility, and sections 
on Know Your Customer and Anti Money Laundering policies. There were no negative 
reviews online. 
Before going ahead, Miss F contacted her friend to ask further questions including how long 
hed been investing with B, whether hed been able to withdraw any money and whether he 
would recommend the company. Miss F then used the referral link to access the trading site 
and register an account, a process which required her to submit her personal details and 
submit photo ID and proof of address. Within 24 hours, the identification checks were 
complete, and Miss F received log-in details to her trading account.
Miss F was told to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange 
company and then load the cryptocurrency onto her online wallet. She was added into a 
WhatsApp group by her friend with the people whod attended the presentation. She made a 
small initial payment in October 2020 and could immediately see profits on her trading 
account. She felt the rate of return was plausible and the broker was responsive and 
knowledgeable, dealing with queries in a timely manner. Between 2 November 2020 and 8 
December 2020, she made seven further payments of £2, £250, £300, £300, £300, £200, 
and £200 from an account she held with another bank. 
On 29 December 2020, Miss F was given the option to cash her investments in or re-invest 
the money, so she issued a withdrawal request for £2,263.27. Within an hour, the money 
was available, and she transferred it to her current account. On 5 January 2021 Miss F 
submitted another withdrawal request and received £1,193.21. On 6 January 2021, she 
invested £300 and on 13 January 2021, she withdrew a further £1,806.46.
On 25 January 2021 and 4 February 2021, Miss F made payments of £2 and £7,000 from 
her Barclays account. These were the only payments from her Barclays account. The 
payment was initially blocked by Barclays and in the subsequent phone call, Miss F was 
asked where the money was being sent to and if she felt she had been coerced into making 
the payment. She confirmed the funds were being sent to a cryptocurrency exchange 
company and she was acting independently.
Over the next few weeks Miss F made two more payments and received several 
withdrawals. But in March 2021, she noticed she was unable to access her trading account 
and was told this was due to maintenance on the website. She was then given a variety of 
reasons as to why investors could not access their accounts and eventually lost access to 
her trading account. She then discovered publications stating that B was fraudulent, and she 
realised shed been scammed.
Miss F complained to Barclays, but it said it was unable to review the claim because shed 
failed to report it to the fraud team. She wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this 
service with the assistance of a representative. The representative explained that even 
though there was a call after the £7,000 payment was blocked, Barclays didnt ask probing 
questions around the purpose and intended destination of the payment and she wasnt given 
an effective warning.
They said Barclays failure to make further enquiries meant it wasnt on notice of the purpose 
of the payments and that it failed to intervene in circumstances which might have prevented 
the scam. They said that Miss F would have fully explained what she was doing and that 
everything had originated from a broker and that even though she was paying a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange company it should have still provided a scam warning.
The representative argued the payments were extremely unusual for Miss F as she barely 
uses the account and that if Barclays had identified the payment as unusual and suspicious 
and asked relevant questions, it would have been apparent that she was failing victim to a 
scam.
Barclays commented that the payments were sent to a wallet held by Miss F in her name 
which she had control of and that the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code didnt 
apply because it was to an account in her own name. It also said that when she made the 
first payment, she selected 'something else' rather than 'Investment of crypto-currency'. It 
said it blocked the payment because it was out of character and that if shed selected the 
correct purpose, it could have provided her with the correct warning, which may have 
prompted her to make additional checks as well as the ones she already had conducted.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said B was likely a pyramid 
scheme where investors can earn money via introducing others to the scheme, or by their 
own investments and he was unable to satisfactorily that the evidence payments were paid 
to B from cryptocurrency exchange company, so he couldnt conclude it was a scam. He 
was also satisfied Barclays had given Miss F a warning, after which she chose to go ahead 
with the payment.
Miss F has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman arguing that they have 
done all they can to show the cryptocurrency was transferred to the scammers wallet given 
the circumstances and in other cases, showing statements for the cryptocurrency exchange 
platform has been enough.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Miss F says shes fallen victim to, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Barclays had said the CRM code didnt apply in 
this case because the disputed payments took place before the code came into force, and 
Im satisfied thats fair and applies to all of the four bank transfer payments.
Im satisfied Miss F authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Our investigator wasnt satisfied that Miss F has shown funds were transferred from the 
account she held with the cryptocurrency exchange company to an account controlled by 
scammers. She has given a detailed account of the circumstances around her loss and she 
had submitted some material about B. But our investigator was able to find this material 
online and I agree with him it doesnt constitute evidence that Miss F lost money to B. 
Such evidence might include emails or whatsapp/text messages between Miss F and the 
scammers, which she hasnt produced. She also hasnt been able to provide any evidence of 
chats with the friend who introduced her and, given she paid a cryptocurrency provider in her 
own name, it seems very odd that shes unable to provide any form of statement of account, 
or evidence to show she paid away the cryptocurrency she purchased.
 
Further, she didnt tell Barclays this was anything other than a personal investment when it 
blocked the payment and its reasonable to expect she would have done were it her intention 
to pass it to B. 
In light of all of that, Im not persuaded Miss F has suffered a loss and so I cant direct 
Barclays to do more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman