DRN-2510566
The complaint
Mr D says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited trading as Mutual lent to him 
irresponsibly. Mr D says he was in a debt spiral and he couldnt afford the loan repayments. 
He thinks that Mutual shouldve seen this and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about 11 home collected loans Mutual provided to Mr D between May 2011 
and December 2019. Some of the information provided about the loans is in the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedweekly 
termdate ended
1 21/05/2011 £200 26 14/12/2011
2 20/08/2011 £400 51 25/07/2012
3 19/11/2011 £600 51 13/02/2013
4 17/11/2012 £600 51 11/12/2013
5 30/11/2013 £600 51 03/12/2014
6 06/12/2014 £500 51 28/10/2015
7 14/11/2015 £500 51 07/12/2016
8 10/12/2016 £700 51 04/07/2018
9 02/12/2017 £700 51 05/12/2018
10 01/12/2018 £1,000 51 18/12/2019
11 21/12/2019 £830 102 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt have enough information to say that 
loans 1 to 5 were within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. So, he didnt 
look at this lending. Mr Ds representative didnt disagree with this. 
He went on to say that Mutual shouldnt have approved any lending after loan 6 as the 
lending pattern itself was harmful. Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Ive read 
in total what Mutual has said and a brief summary is below:
the loans are not high interest or expensive and the repayments are small each week 
so they should be considered differently from other lenders or high cost short term 
credit
the adjudicator didnt properly consider the consumers circumstances or consider 
what proportionate checks were needed. The checks Mutual did were proportionate 
for each loan and the loans were affordable, it individually determined the reasons for 
lending each time and it gathered more information as the lending relationship went 
on
repeat lending, and long-term use of home credit, is not necessarily harmful to 
consumers. The industry regulator has confirmed this
its not appropriate to use an arbitrary loan number to uphold the complaint at. And 
there are no industry regulations that say lending is unsustainable because of the 
number of loans, the length of the lending relationship, the amounts lent, any lending 
trends and the time period between loans 
a key indicator of when a loan is affordable is whether past loans have been repaid in 
a reasonable way. Mutual used a low and grow approach to make sure this 
happened
there is no evidence in this case to support the adjudicators conclusions that the 
length of time over which the consumer borrowed makes the loans unsustainable
in a recent court case, the judge said it might be fair to lend up to 3 or 4 loans per 
year (but more may indicate financial difficulty). Mutual approved a lower amount of 
loans than this, so the lending was likely to be sustainable
as these are longer term products, with a term of around two years, it isnt 
reasonable to say that it should have stopped lending after around three and a half 
years
there would be no reason to continue to borrow to make the repayments to the loan, 
they can use the flexibility of the product so this pressure wouldnt exist. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints 
of this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of 
this type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont 
intend to go into detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mr 
D. It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to 
Mutual on these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the 
published decisions on our website. So Im not going deal with these points at length 
here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, 
as does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit 
within its identified high cost credit cohort. And while I note it has a longer term than, 
for example, a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a 
consumer. And, as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. 
The FCA has not said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these 
issues alongside everything else in making my decision.
Mr D didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to look at loans 1 to 5. Because of this 
I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans  and, for the avoidance of 
doubt, given the evidence I have, I dont disagree with what the adjudicator said about this 
lending. So Im not able to consider them in any detail, but they were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr D had with Mutual. So their existence tells me that Mutual should have 
known certain things about Mr D, and the headline information about the amounts Mutual 
lent to him in those early loans has relevance to my consideration of the later lending. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6 to 11 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. 
But I will comment that much of the information provided by Mutual about the checks it made 
concerns the process its agents would have followed. But there is very little evidence to 
show these processes were followed here. There is application data for loans 6 to 11, but 
there isnt a great deal of detail in them. And, its reasonable to say that Mutual didnt adhere 
to its policy, if it has one, of a low and grow approach. There was a very sharp increase in 
the total amount Mr D borrowed right at the start. So, Im not clear how outlining the policies 
its agent is supposed to have followed, but didnt, are helpful here. Im not able to place any 
weight on descriptions of what ought to have happened. 
Notwithstanding my concerns about the sales process itself, Ive looked at the overall pattern 
of Mutuals lending history with Mr D, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:At this point Mutual ought to have realised Mr D was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr D had been indebted to Mutual for over three and a half years. The 
loans were intended to run for around two years, so Mutual could perhaps have 
expected a longer period of indebtedness than the loan term. But after a period of 
sharp increases in indebtedness at the start of the lending, Mr D had settled into a 
pattern of borrowing a larger amount at the end of each year. And at loan 6 Mr D was 
making a commitment to make repayments for another year. 
So, rather than a picture of decreasing indebtedness that would happen when a loan 
is taken and repaid, there is a pattern of increasing and continued overlapping 
borrowing, or new borrowing taken with days of a previous loan being repaid. This 
suggests Mr D couldnt fully repay this lending without borrowing further and wouldnt 
be able to do so in the foreseeable future. This could be due to the effect the weekly 
repayments, over a sustained period, were having on his finances.
So Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely than not that Mr Ds indebtedness 
was unsustainable by loan 6. 
Loan 6 was for £600, the same as loans 3, 4 and 5. So, it was the latest in a line of 
loans for relatively high amounts. At this point Mutual ought to have known that Mr D 
was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income, or to pay for 
discrete items, but to meet an ongoing need.
And this is reflected in the information Mutual recorded about why Mr D started these 
loans. Almost all of loans 6 to 11 were recorded as being for Christmas. And the 
amounts borrowed were increasing each year. Although obviously annual, I dont 
think Christmas can fairly be described as either a one off or unexpected 
expenditure. If Mr D needed to borrow each year to fund this, I think it shows he was 
struggling over a long period of time. 
Mr D is arguably spreading the cost of Christmas with some of the later loans. And it 
isnt necessarily or automatically unreasonable to use this type of credit to do this. 
But using a high cost form of borrowing over a prolonged period is still likely to have 
caused financial problems, and in this case the evidence suggests it left Mr D with 
little alternative but to borrow again in the future, as he did. 
Right from the start Mr D was provided with a new loan within a short time of settling 
an earlier one. So, there wasnt an appreciable time when Mr D wasnt in debt to 
Mutual. 
And Mr D didnt make any real inroads to the amount he owed Mutual. Loan 11 was 
taken out over eight years after Mr Ds first. So, the harmful pattern I think was 
established from loan 6 continued. Mr D had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Mutual over an extended period.
I think that Mr D lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr D borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 11 and Mutual should put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate 
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the 
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under four loans a year. It says, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the 
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably. 
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking 
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some 
different considerations, than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly. 
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows 
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement 
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected 
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different 
considerations. And indeed has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of 
short term high cost credit providers. So this means that the judges conclusions about a 
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here. 
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to 
be also looked at, as Ive done above. 
So whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about this complaint. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr D from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mr D loans 6 to 11.
If Mutual has sold the outstanding debts Mutual should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back then Mutual 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr D as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr D having made 
overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr D. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr D. Mutual shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal Mutual has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Ds borrowing for loans 6 to 11 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ds credit file. 
Mutual does not have to remove loan 11 from Mr Ds credit file until these have been repaid, 
but Mutual should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman