DRN-1807329
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that The Five Lamps Organisation ('FLO') has reported a default on her 
credit file dating back to 2017 when she thinks it should have been a number of years 
earlier.
What happened
In or around October 2013, Miss T applied for a loan of about £2,400 from lending agent, N. 
In 2016, N went into liquidation. It transferred responsibility for all its loans to a bank, B. In 
2016, FLO was appointed by B as it's agent to manage the loans, which included Miss T's 
loan.
Miss T took the original loan from N to help with the set-up of a new business venture. But, 
pretty soon after getting the loan, Miss T sadly became ill and, I'm told, hasn't worked since. 
She's never made any repayment of the loan.
FLO contacted Miss T a number of times between 2016 and 2017. It detailed the amount of 
the loan that it had been told was outstanding. And it requested that Miss T get in touch to 
discuss how she would like to settle the arrears and to inform it of any payments she'd 
made which might not have been recorded. Miss T didn't contact FLO - she'd moved out of 
the address it was writing to in August 2016 - and in 2018 FLO assigned her account to a 
debt collection agent.
FLO recorded a default with the credit reference agencies on Miss T's credit file in mid-2017. 
On checking her credit file, Miss T discovered this and complained to FLO. She thinks that 
as her loan had been in default ever since it started, this should have been recorded much 
earlier than it was. And so she considers that if it had been, the record of her default would, 
in the usual course, have dropped off after six years. That would mean that the default would 
no longer be recorded.
Our investigator agreed with Miss T that her account had been in default for much longer 
than FLO had recorded. And so he recommended that FLO arrange for Miss T's credit 
record to be amended. FLO asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided to uphold Miss T's complaint. I'll explain why.
Putting things right
Miss T has effectively been in default of her obligations to repay this loan since shortly after 
it was taken out. The records of the loan are very limited, given N's subsequent liquidation. 
In particular there's no copy of the loan agreement. So I don't know the exact terms on which 
the loan was made and when it was to be re-paid.Miss T has been able to provide us with some emails from around the time of the loan. 
These include a couple of loan application forms. One of these talks about typical enterprise 
loans being for around £2,500 with a 36-month term. That accords with the sort of loan that 
Miss T has - the records indicate it was for about £2,400, with an approximately £80 a month 
repayment plan. So taking into account any interest payable on the loan, it's my finding that 
those were more likely than not the terms.
So, this would mean that the loan was repayable monthly straight after it had been provided. 
The correspondence appears to indicate that the loan was granted in or around October 
2013. So the first payment would more likely than not have been due in November 2013. 
That clearly wasn't paid. And so, assuming N had then actively managed the account, and 
sent the appropriate demand and default letters, it would more likely than not have defaulted 
the loan between three and six months later. So, at the latest, that would have been some 
time in April 2014.
However, I understand that it appears from Miss T's credit record that there's no notice of 
default until that notified by FLO in 2017. It's strange that no default was recorded before 
then by N - which went into liquidation in March 2016. So there were a good two years whilst 
it was managing the account where there's no record of any action having been taken.
It's also difficult to understand why FLO doesn't have a copy of the loan agreement or any 
record of the actions that may have been taken by its predecessor, N. I don't consider it to 
be fair and reasonable for FLO to have recorded a new default on Miss T's credit file for 
something that was more likely than not already in default many years before.
FLO seems to have effectively recorded this as a new loan account when it took it over in 
2016/2017, rather than the transfer of an existing loan arrangement made in 2013. The copy 
of Miss T's credit report makes no reference to N and only refers to the loan being 
outstanding since May 2017. That's not an accurate or fair representation of Miss T's liability 
for this loan.
Now it's important for me to point out that I've made no finding or decision about whether 
Miss T still owes this money.  And any action that may still be taken in relation to it will be for 
B, FLO and/or the debt collection agent to decide going forward. And it may be that they will 
be required to record that with credit reference agencies against Miss T's details.
But this complaint is about the correction of Miss T's credit file for the loan originally 
administered by N.  And I don't consider that it's fair and reasonable for her default in 
repaying this loan to have been recorded by FLO as effectively a new loan account a 
number of years later. So FLO now needs to take steps to rectify that and clarify the details 
of when the loan was taken out and when it is more likely than not to have defaulted. I 
appreciate that this is before FLO had responsibility for the loan. But the record as it stands 
does not reflect the true position with regard to this debt. 
My final decision
It's my final decision to uphold this complaint against The Five Lamps Organisation and I 
require that it make arrangements to notify the credit reference agencies to which it 
reports that the loan was originally made in or around October 2013 and defaulted, at the 
latest, in April 2014.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
James KennardOmbudsman