DRN-3468350
The complaint
Mr H has complained that AJ Bell Asset Investment Management Limited (AJ Bell) didnt 
make him aware of the reporting status of an investment he took out via its execution only 
service. The investment has been sold and given rise to an additional personal tax liability of 
around £6,400.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr H invested £99,79Mr H.22 into Oryx International Growth fund (Oryx) 
using AJ Bells platform. He sold the investment in August 2020 and the sale proceeds 
amounted to £116,570.18. 
Since the fund didnt have HMRC reporting status, Mr H became liable to an additional tax 
liability on the investment gain. He thinks AJ Bell should have made him aware of the non-
reporting status of the fund before he invested.
Mr H complained to AJ Bell. In It rejected his complaint. It said;
Its terms and condition stated it would not provide financial, investment or tax advice 
as part of its service. It was Mr H s responsibility to deal with his tax affairs and for 
researching any investments.
It gave a link to HMRCs published list of offshore funds that had applied for reporting 
purposes. If a fund was not on that list it was a non-reporting fund.
It had provided Mr H with the same information it was given by Oryx.
AJ Bell didnt offer or advertise that it would include the reporting status of any fund. 
Remaining dissatisfied, Mr H brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
AJ Bell had provided information to Mr H as required by the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) under the applicable Conduct of Business rules. 
AJ Bells terms and condition outlined that it provided an execution only service.
The Financial Ombudsman couldnt recommend that AJ Bell change its process in 
making this information available as it wasnt something this service could do.
Mr H had agreed to the terms and conditions  including his responsibility for tax and 
checking any information AJ Bell provided him with. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said;
his complaint was about the fund information provided by AJ Bell. The Key 
Information Document (KID) didnt contain information that Oryx was a non-reporting 
fund and as such AJ Bell wasnt compliant with PRIIPs regulations. 
Under the what is this product section the KID made clear it was for capital growth. 
And given that AJ Bell was a provider focused on UK residential retail clients then the 
non-reporting status of the fund was essential information. 
The KID did state that the fund was domiciled in Guernsey, but that status didnt 
determine whether a fund was reporting or non-reporting. 
AJ Bell was responsible for this information under the regulations for Packaged Retail 
Investments Products (PRIIPs). 
The investigator responded to explain that the what is this product section of the KID 
referred to how the product worked and whether it was reporting, or non-reporting wasnt 
relevant as that status could change. The impact that had on the investor depended on the 
investors own tax status.
The investments offered on AJ Bells platform are from product providers who produce their 
own KIDs and that was done so the customer could compare funds more easily. The 
location of the company holding the funds was important as that gave the funds its offshore 
status. And because the fund is based in Guernsey it is considered an offshore fund. The 
same investments could be bought offshore and onshore. 
In conclusion, the investigator couldnt agree that including the reporting status of a fund was 
a requirement of any broker. Rather that information was provided by HMRC which allows a 
customer to see the reporting status of a fund when selecting investments. AJ Bell had only 
provided an execution only service and it was for the customer to seek independent tax 
advice. 
Mr H didnt agree. He believed that the regulations were clear in that AJ Bell was responsible 
for the contents of the KID. He also maintained that the non-reporting status of the fund was 
essential information that should be included in the KID under those regulations. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mr H has complained about information he was given, or otherwise, about the reporting 
status of the Oryx fund. The importance of this is that if a fund doesnt have a reporting 
status with HMRC, then the default position for the investor is any investment into an 
offshore fund will incur income tax at a rate of up to 45% on any realised gains. If the fund 
had elected to be a reporting fund with HMRC, realised gains would be subject to capital 
gains tax rates, which are currently lower than income tax rates at a maximum of 20%.
Mr H has said that as the fund was presented as a suitable investor for retail investor in the 
UK and was primarily concerned with capital growth rather than dividend income, so it was 
difficult to see how a non-reporting fund would be suitable for UK retail investors. As a result, 
it shouldnt have been sold on AJ Bells website without clear notification. He thought that 
was key information any retail investor resident in the UK would need. 
I have considered whether AJ Bell has been fair and reasonable in the provision of 
information to Mr H and its assessment that its not its responsibility to disclose the non-
reporting status of funds. Mr H considers this to be vital information. 
AJ Bell has pointed out there are over 92,000 funds on the HMRC list which is reviewed on a 
monthly basis and the reporting status of a fund can be changed on a monthly basis. The 
service AJ Bell provided to Mr H was an execution only service. That service, by its very nature and cost to the customer, provides a service where it acts upon the instruction of the 
customer. It is for the client to decide what they want to invest into after consideration of the 
potential merits of that investment. 
And I wouldnt expect AJ Bell to undertake such a level of research on a monthly basis as 
part of its execution only service. That would be for the execution only customer to establish 
as the relevance of the reporting/non-reporting status would be dependent upon that 
customers own tax position. 
AJ Bells terms and conditions make clear that it doesnt provide any financial, investment or 
tax advice as part of its services. And regarding taxation it again makes clear that is the 
customers responsible and it would be the customers responsibility to report any 
investment income received or gained to HMRC and pay any tax liability that arises. AJ Bell 
isnt responsible for any personal liability a customer may have in relation to their account. 
But Mr H believes its the presentation and KID that is lacking this information and this is vital 
information for a UK retail investor. He referred to the regulations for Packaged Retail 
Investments Products (PRIIPs) to support his position. 
The PRIIPs regulations came into effect at the beginning of 2018 and I have looked at the 
scope of them. The regulatory background refers to the manufacturers (fund managers and 
investment firms etc) and that it is for the manufacturer to draw up KIDs on the basis that 
they are in the best position to know their product. And they are responsible for the for 
accuracy of the KID. The manufacturer has to prepare a KID for each of its products and 
publish on its website. The regulations then go on to talk about distributors  an adviser or 
seller  about when and how they need to provide the information for a retail customer. So, 
in these particular circumstances, I think AJ Bells responsibility extended to ensuring that  
Mr H had access to the KID before he invested and had enough information to understand 
the documents. 
In the case of Mr H, he considers that the KID should contain reporting/non-reporting status 
of a fund. But I dont think the KID is meant to be the only relevant document an investor 
might need. In itself, it is required to contain a prescribed set of information. So, the 
information that the regulations say has to be in the KID has to be in the document itself, and 
not contained in information that can be found elsewhere  in this case the HMRC list. And 
importantly, I think it also means it doesnt have to, nor do I think it would be reasonable to 
expect it to, cover every possible risk or scenario relating to a given investment in that 
document. So, for Mr H  reference to the reporting status that may have impacted on his 
personal tax position. 
The regulations state that each KID is to be no more than three pages long and contain 
specified information in a pre-determined sequence such as What is the product? and 
What are the risks and what could I get in return?. There is a section entitled Performance 
Scenarios which provides examples of what a customer might get back under varying 
scenarios. And I note that section finishes with The figures do not take into account your 
personal tax situation, which may also affect how much you get back which I think flags up 
to the potential investor that they should check any tax implications of the investment.
I accept there is one section for Other relevant information that Mr H  may feel covers the 
reporting status of the fund but, and like the investigator, that in my opinion is more relevant 
to and dependent upon the tax status of the individual. All the pre-determined sections 
required by PRIIPs regulations relate to the fund itself and not the individual investor. And in 
any event, it is the manufacturer who is responsible for that regulated information and not  
AJ Bell.I dont think it unreasonable for AJ Bell to have relied upon the information by the provider of 
the fund  the manufacturer and be confident in passing those KIDs onto its own 
customers. AJ Bell provided an execution only service to Mr H. It offered products on its 
platform, the KID for which had been produced by the product manufacturer, and it was for 
the execution only customer to make their own decision about investing. 
 
Overall, I am satisfied that AJ Bell acted in line with its terms and conditions and the 
regulations that apply. It follows that I dont find that it has done anything wrong in its 
dealings with Mr H and the non-reporting status of his investment.
While no doubt the outcome of this complaint will be disappointment to Mr H  its clear he 
feels very strongly about it  based on all of the evidence Ive seen, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr H s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman