DRN-3829834
The complaint
Mr G complains Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity) didnt do enough to tell 
him that a fund he held was closing and his holdings in it sold. He seeks redress for loss of 
growth on the resulting cash and for loss of tax benefits.
Background
Fidelity told Mr G it had notified him of the fund closure more than a month beforehand in a 
notice it placed on his online account. According to Fidelity, notification in this way was in 
line with the communication preferences set for Mr Gs account. 
Mr G has said he never received an email to tell him the notice was on his account - and he 
preferred to receive such notices by post anyway. He says he didnt see or open the notice 
and didnt reinvest the cash proceeds as a result. He has said the notice didnt give enough 
time to arrange reinvestment anyway and should also have been followed up by something 
else rather than relying on one notice. He has also pointed out that a later notice confirming 
the transaction said, wrongly, that the sale was made on his instruction.
Our investigator thought it likely Fidelity had sent Mr G an email to tell him the notice had 
been placed on his online account  because Fidelity sent us a screenshot showing that his 
account preferences were set to receive email alerts. But Mr G told us he changed this 
setting after the complaint. He maintained that Fidelitys evidence didnt show he had been 
sent an email about the notice and also didnt show that the preferences on his account 
when the fund was sold were preferences he had selected or was aware of. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision. We 
asked Fidelity for more information. Having received this, I wrote to Mr G and Fidelity to 
outline my understanding of the relevant circumstances. I also made some observations on 
what I had seen. In summary, I said:
Fidelity says it sent Mr G a letter in July 2017 that asked him to return a slip if he wished 
to continue getting postal correspondence. Fidelity says Mr G didnt return the slip and 
so his account settings moved to online-only from August 2017.
The copy of the July 2017 letter Fidelity sent us promised: well send you an email 
whenever there is a new document waiting for you online.
A letter dated July 2018 about the forthcoming fund closure was placed on Mr Gs online 
account on 1 August 2018. But Fidelity says it can see from its records that it didnt send 
Mr G an email to alert him to this.
Mr Gs fund holding was sold on 10 September 2018. A letter confirming this was placed 
on Mr Gs online account afterwards. Fidelity says it can see from its records that it didnt 
send Mr G an email to alert him to this.
Fidelity says an email alert for the July 2018 fund closure letter would only have been 
sent to Mr G if his account preferences were set for email alerts. But Fidelity says an 
email alert shouldve been sent to Mr G for the letter confirming the sale of his fund 
holding, regardless of his account preferences. Fidelity says this wasnt sent to Mr G due 
to a problem Fidelity was having during a certain period with these sorts of email alerts.
Fidelity says it has data to show Mr Gs account preference for email alerts was turned 
on in 2021 - which is consistent with what Mr G says about turning these on at that time. 
But Fidelity says it has no data to show what the settings were in the years before that. 
So Fidelity has no data to show what the setting was in July or August 2018 or in the 
period before that.
The fact an email alert for the fund closure notice was not sent to Mr G in August 2018, 
is consistent with email alerts not being turned on in his account preferences at that time. 
If email alerts were not on in August 2018, this could be because Fidelity didnt turn them 
on like it should have done in August 2017  or because they were turned off before 
August 2018 by Mr G or in some other way. From what Fidelity has told us, there is no 
data to show conclusively what did happen.
Fidelity has sent data that shows Mr G logged on to his online account at various times 
over the years. It shows he logged on in 2017 both before and after his account was set 
to online-only correspondence. It shows that after the fund closure letter was placed on 
his account on 1 August 2018, Mr G logged on to his account twice in September 2018 -  
the first time being ten days after the sale of the fund and the second time being 20 days 
after it. He next logged on in March 2019.
Fidelity says Mr Gs account in which he held the fund, wasnt a tax wrapper of any kind 
(like an ISA for example) and the sale of the fund within the account didnt lead to Mr G 
losing any tax wrapper benefits. Mr G hasnt given us anything to suggest this is wrong. 
Also Fidelitys letter about the sale said the proceeds would be kept in the same account, 
which doesnt suggest the sale would affect any tax wrapper benefits if there were any.
Mr Gs account was likely set to online-only in August 2017 following Fidelitys July 2017 
letter. I havent seen data to show that Mr G was sent the letter but it was clearly a letter 
designed for customers in Mr Gs situation who were still receiving communications by 
post. Fidelity sent us evidence that showed Mr G was included in, and had responded to, 
a similar mailing two years earlier. It seems reasonable to conclude that Mr G was sent 
the July 2017 letter. 
Fidelity accepts it was at fault for not sending Mr G an email to alert him to the letter on 
his account confirming the September 2018 sale of his fund holding. 
Fidelity isnt at fault for not having data to show the email alert preferences for Mr Gs 
account as far back as 2018. But this does mean the question of why Mr G didnt receive 
an email alert for the July 2018 letter is one I have to answer without data that would give 
a conclusive answer. The apparently unrelated problem Fidelity had told us it had with 
the other email alert does at least highlight that things can go wrong with this process. 
On balance my view is that the alert wasnt sent due to an error on Fidelitys part.
The purpose of the email alerts was to prompt Mr G to access his account so he could 
review in a timely manner new documents placed there. But Mr G had accessed his 
account shortly after the fund sale and his account will have shown unread documents, 
namely the letters about the forthcoming fund closure and the letter confirming it had 
taken place. The fact the fund had been sold would also have been visible from what 
was shown online about the account holdings. It wouldnt seem fair or reasonable to hold 
Fidelity responsible for losses that Mr G could have avoided by reading, when accessing the account, the notices Fidelity had placed there to inform him of the fund sale. 
Ive nothing to suggest the fund was held within a tax wrapper or that the proceeds of the 
sale were moved from a tax-free to a taxable account. 
Overall, it doesnt seem fair to hold Fidelity responsible for lost investment growth of the 
kind Mr G was seeking. But Fidelitys failure to send him the email alerts it ought to have 
sent has caused him inconvenience and disappointment for which Fidelity should pay 
him £250 as redress rather than the £50 it had offered.
I invited Mr G and Fidelity to provide any more comments they wished to make. I havent 
received anything new to consider as a result.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and for the reasons Ive 
already outlined above.
In brief summary, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Fidelity to compensate 
Mr G for lost investment growth on proceeds of the sale of the fund, bearing in mind that he 
accessed his account shortly after the fund had been sold and when information about this 
was available on his account for him to review. Also I dont believe that the sale of the fund 
led to the loss of any tax wrapper benefits. I say this because the evidence I have suggests 
the account didnt have any tax wrapper benefits and that any such benefits wouldnt have 
been affected by the sale of the fund in any event. 
But I do think Fidelity was at fault for not sending Mr G email alerts it ought to have sent him 
about the fund closure. I think this has caused Mr G inconvenience and disappointment for 
which Fidelity should compensate Mr G. So on these points I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Putting things right
Financial Administration Services Limited should pay him Mr G £250 for inconvenience and 
disappointment caused to Mr G by the failings Ive identified above. This should be paid 
instead of the £50 it has already offered Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Financial Administration Services Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman