DRN-2573371
The complaint
  This complaints about a consolidation re-mortgage Mr and Mrs J took out in 2005 on 
advice given by a representative of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G). 
Mr and Mrs J, who have third party representation, believe it was mis-sold.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the current situation and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The investigator didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint; he wasnt persuaded the 
mortgage overall had been unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Js circumstances as recorded at the 
time. He did have some concerns about some ancillary aspects of the sale and made the 
following recommendations to resolve the complaint:
L&G should honour an already-made offer to refund the interest cost of adding a will 
package to the mortgage and pay £150 compensation; and
L&G should refund, with interest, a £50 commission payment received from the solicitors 
that did the legal work for the re-mortgage and pay £100 further compensation.
The investigator initially recommended L&G also refund, with interest, a legal administration 
fee. He changed his mind on this latter fee after hearing further evidence from L&G 
supporting its justification. That aside, L&G agreed with the investigator and agreed to make 
the two refunds Ive listed above and pay Mr and Mrs J compensation for their time and 
trouble.
The case has come to me for review because Mr and Mrs Js representative remains of the 
view that the legal administration fee was unfair and should be refunded.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Mr and Mrs Js representative has asked for the case to be reviewed solely on the issue of 
the legal administration fee. Thats the sole remaining point of dispute in the complaint that I 
have to decide.
In support of the argument that the legal administration fee was unfair and should be 
refunded, Mr and Mrs Js representative has referred to a final decision from a fellow 
ombudsman in a previous case. However, that decision didnt turn on the legitimacy of the 
fee, merely whether in that specific case, it had been adequately drawn to the consumers 
attention at the point of sale. Ive no concerns on that point in this complaint. Im satisfied Mr 
and Mrs J were informed of, and signed to confirm their agreement to, the legal 
administration fee 
Meanwhile, L&G has also referred us to a final decision from a fellow ombudsman in a 
previous case, in which the legal administration fee was found to be legitimate. 
Our final decisions dont form binding precedents; but we do aim to be consistent when 
deciding different cases on similar fact, so its sensible and prudent that I consider them in 
the context of the case Im deciding here. 
In my view, those two decisions dont contradict each other; they determine different things. 
One decided that the legal administration fee was legitimate, and Ive reached the same 
conclusion here. The other decided that the consumers hadnt been properly informed about 
the legal administration fee, and Ive reached a different conclusion here. Ive reached those 
conclusions having regard for everything that both parties have said and provided in 
connection with this individual complaint.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I direct Legal & General 
Partnership Services Limited to:
refund mortgage interest charged up to the eventual settlement date in respect of the will 
package fee: 
refund £50 solicitors commission payment, plus mortgage interest charged on it up to 
the eventual settlement date; and
pay Mr and Mrs J £250 compensation.
I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman