DRN-3953006
The complaint
Mr H complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) sold some of his shares, without 
his permission, to cover the cost of an administration fee.
What happened
Mr H has a share dealing account with HSDL. In 2022 HSDL introduced an admin fee for Mr 
Hs account. Mr H didnt pay the fee, and complained that HSDL shouldnt have charged him 
in the first place. Our service considered Mr Hs complaint about the introduction of the fee, 
and a decision on that matter has been made separately.
HSDL then wrote to him to say unless he provided details of a card from which the fee could 
be taken, the firm would sell some of the shares in his account to cover it. It wrote twice 
more to remind Mr H this would happen unless he paid the fee or gave HSDL details 
allowing it to be taken. As Mr H didnt reply, HSDL subsequently sold some of Mr Hs shares.
Mr H complained. One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it 
should be upheld. She noted the terms of Mr Hs account set out that it could sell shares if 
he owed them money for things like charges and fees. She was satisfied HSDL had given Mr 
H plenty of notice, and opportunity to pay the fee without his shares being sold.
Mr H didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said HSDL hadnt taken his 
disabilities into account and reiterated that the fee should never have been charged to begin 
with. He also questioned why certain shares had been sold (rather than others he held) and 
asked what qualifications HSDL had to carry out such a transaction.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind. She said that HSDL had followed its 
process  set out on its website  in deciding which shares to sell. She didnt think the 
qualifications held by the individual who carried out the transaction had any bearing on the 
outcome of the complaint either. As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by emphasising to Mr H that Ive read all his submissions carefully, and I 
recognise his strength of feeling about the issues hes experienced with HSDL. In reaching 
my decision Im obliged to take into account (amongst other things) relevant law, and that 
includes the Equality Act 2010 which Mr H has referred to. I understand Mr H has 
vulnerabilities and I have considered the events of this complaint mindful of these things.
Id also like to clarify that this decision is solely concerned with HSDLs sale of Mr Hs shares 
to pay the admin fee. In some of his responses, Mr H has continued to argue the fairness of 
the fee itself. That is an issue hes brought to our service previously, and weve made a 
decision about. So I wont be commenting on that matter any further here.
When Mr H opened his account, he agreed to be bound by the terms of business between 
himself and HSDL. At clause 13.11 these terms say that HSDL can collect any costs and 
charges due under the agreement (which, in mid-2022, included the admin fee). It goes on to 
say HSDL can do so by arranging the sale of investments to cover any amount due.
It's not in dispute that Mr H didnt have cash in his account to pay the fee and hadnt 
provided HSDL with card details to draw the fee from. So Im satisfied that, under the terms 
of the account, HSDL had the contractual right to take the action it did  and sell some of his 
investments to cover the charge that was due.
I also note that, before doing so, HSDL wrote to Mr H on three occasions. It wrote to him in 
June, July and then September, before selling shares in October 2022. These letters clearly 
set out the amount due, what Mr H needed to do to pay the fee, and that if he didnt do so, 
HSDL would sell shares instead. Im satisfied HSDL gave Mr H plenty of notice and 
opportunity before it sold his shares. Taking everything into account I dont find HSDL to 
have treated Mr H unfairly by taking the actions it did.
In terms of the choice of stocks to sell, HSDL has explained it simply sold from Mr Hs 
largest holding. Im pleased to see HSDL had a systematic process in place for this aspect, 
and I note that choosing the largest holding reduces the likelihood of multiple different 
holdings having to be sold. Overall I dont find it unfair or unreasonable for HSDL to have 
selected the shares to sell in this way. 
Finally, Mr H has mentioned his vulnerability and disabilities, and said HSDLs actions failed 
to take these into account. Ive considered this aspect of Mr Hs complaint carefully. But 
having done so, I cant see any evidence that  in the context of its decision to sell Mr Hs 
shares and the way it communicated with him about that  it failed to take account of any 
particular needs or adjustments Mr H had, or that hed told HSDL about. Mr H hasnt stated 
in what way he was disadvantaged by HSDLs actions in this regard, and so taking 
everything into account I find no grounds to uphold the complaint here.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman