DRN-2847456
The complaint
Mr W complains of poor customer service when he tried to raise a chargeback with Monzo 
Bank Ltd.
What happened
Mr W requested £50 cashback when he paid for his supermarket shopping, however, he 
says he never received the cashback. He asked Monzo to raise a chargeback for him. Mr W 
had numerous phone calls and chat messages with Monzo, but he said he had many calls 
disconnected and he didnt feel as if Monzo were helping him.
Mr W raised a complaint to Monzo which included a number of points such as Monzo not 
providing an upfront refund for the cashback he didnt get from the supermarket, the number 
of operatives he spoke to by email and the chat facility, issues with the application log in 
procedure, difficulty contacting Monzo by telephone and issues relating to the service and 
time Monzo took to raise a chargeback.
Monzo partially upheld Mr Ws complaint. They said they were unable to uphold his 
complaint for not providing an upfront refund, the number of operatives he spoke to by email 
or online chat and application procedures but they were upholding his complaint points 
regarding the difficulty he experienced when contacting them by telephone and certain 
elements of the service they delivered and the resulting time it took to raise a chargeback. 
Monzo said they were going to credit Mr Ws account with £105 and apologised to Mr W.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service. He said he wanted £150-£300 compensation 
from Monzo. During our investigation Mr Ws account was closed by Monzo due to an 
unrelated incident. Mr W was successful in his chargeback dispute so Monzo asked him to 
provide account details for them to pay Mr W his £50.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said that Monzos operatives couldve 
gave Mr W a better service, which may have resulted in Monzo raising the chargeback 
sooner. Our investigator said that Monzo hadnt made an error with their application log in 
procedures. He also said that while he understood Mr Ws frustration about the number of 
operators he spoke to and the difficulty to contact Monzo by phone, there were no set 
standards that he could hold Monzo accountable for. Our investigator concluded that the 
£105 Monzo had already paid Mr W was fair and reasonable for poor customer service and 
had Monzo not upheld Mr Ws complaint, this would be broadly in line with what he would 
have awarded Mr W. Mr W asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. In 
summary he said that Monzo should be fined and he should be compensated with interest 
added.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made a number of points to both Monzo and this service and Ive considered, 
listened to and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a 
quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable here.
All parties accept that Mr W received poor customer service. So all I need to decide on this 
point is if the £105 Monzo has already paid Mr W is fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that it 
is. I say that as there is no doubt that the customer experience couldve been better for Mr 
W. He had unanswered calls to Monzo which would have been frustrating and there was a 
misunderstanding initially with what Mr Ws chargeback was for. So what I would expect 
Monzo to do here is apologise for this, recognise the impact this would have had on Mr W 
and to pay him fair compensation for this. Im satisfied thats what Monzo have done. Our 
investigator has explained to Mr W that the compensation awarded is broadly in line with 
what this service would have awarded him had Monzo not upheld his complaint. So I do 
believe that the compensation Monzo have paid is reasonable, even if Mr W would disagree 
with this.
Ive considered what Mr W has said regarding Monzo not providing him a refund up front, the 
number of operatives he spoke to and security processes with the Monzo application. I 
should explain that its not the role of this service to say how a business should run their 
processes. But Ive looked to see if Monzo have followed their own processes here and Im 
satisfied they have and that theyve treated Mr W fairly, even if he doesnt see it this way. Ill 
explain why below.
Monzo arent obliged to give a refund upfront but they could raise a chargeback on behalf of 
Mr W, which they did here. They explained that their chat operatives may not always be 
available to communicate with Mr W so his chat would be passed onto someone else to 
avoid him having to wait for the previous person he had spoken with to return. And regarding 
the application log ins, Monzo said the requirement to log-in when using a new device is 
appropriate as it helps maintain the security of their customers accounts. Im persuaded all 
of these factors show that Monzo treated Mr W fairly here.
Mr W has said that Monzo should be fined for what happened. But this is not in our remit to 
fine a company as that would be the role of the regulator. As I explained earlier, our role is a 
quick and informal body to decide whats fair and reasonable here. Monzo have already paid 
Mr W £105. I think this is fair in the circumstances for the reasons Ive already given. So it 
follows I wont be asking Monzo to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman