DRN-3049031
The complaint
BMBT, a trust, is complaining about the administration and provision of information by Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited in relation to a whole of life assurance policy. The trust is 
represented in the complaint by Mr T and Mrs W, the trustees. The settlor of the trust was 
Mr B, whose life was assured by the policy.  
What happened
In 1988, Mr B took out a whole of life policy which was written into trust. Mr B passed away 
in 2015. In June 2018, the executors of Mr Bs estate contacted Aviva  theyd found some 
policy information and wanted to make a claim. In October 2019, Aviva asked the executors 
for help contacting the trustees. Mr T and Mrs W say this was the first time they became 
aware they were trustees of the trust.
During the period from October 2019 to August 2020, Mr T and Mrs W raised a number of 
queries with Aviva. They asked for copies of policy documents and trust documents, and for 
an explanation and calculation showing why the sum assured had reduced from the initial 
sum assured of £70,000 to a value of £7,791. They also had some queries about the amount 
of premiums Mr B had paid, particularly given Aviva told Mrs W (in error) that the policy had 
been made paid up in 2003. 
After ongoing correspondence between the parties, Aviva paid the sum assured in 
August 2020, together with interest from the date of death to the settlement date in line with 
their terms and conditions. However Mr T and Mrs W remained unhappy. They said theyd 
not received all the information theyd asked for. And they said Avivas delays in providing 
information had cost the trust a significant amount of money, being Mr Ts professional fees 
for time spent chasing information. They also complained that Aviva had asked for Mr Ts 
identification documents in August 2020 despite Mr T having sent these to Aviva in 
November 2019.
Mr T and Mrs W first brought their complaint to our service in March 2020. But the complaint 
evolved over the months that followed and Aviva issued their final response in October 2020. 
In that letter, Aviva apologised for the delays in providing information. They explained that 
the policy was made paid up in 2014 after Mr B had stopped paying his premiums  and that 
that was separate from the reduction in sum assured which had happened after a policy 
review in 2003. Aviva said they couldnt see any evidence that Mr B had wanted to stop 
paying his premiums before 2014  so they wouldnt refund the premiums paid since 2003. 
In the letter, Aviva also explained their process around corresponding with trustees  saying 
they would normally correspond with the lead trustee rather than all named trustees. That 
would have been Mr B, up until his death, and explains why they hadnt corresponded with 
Mr T or Mrs W prior to being notified of Mr Bs death. 
In relation to the identification checks, Aviva said they had no record of having verified Mr Ts 
identity prior to August 2020 so they didnt think theyd done anything wrong in that respect. 
In conclusion, they said they were upholding the complaint about delays in providing 
information, but not the complaint points in relation to the administration of Mr Bs policy. 
Aviva noted that Mr T had provided an invoice for £200 for his additional time spent on the 
matter and offered to pay that amount.
Mr T and Mrs W remained unhappy so our investigator looked into the complaint. She said 
there were some aspects of the complaint that we couldnt consider as they fell outside our 
time limits  in particular she said we couldnt look at any complaint points about the value of 
the policy or the sale of the policy as Mr B, and therefore the trust, would have been aware 
of both of these points a long time ago.
Our investigator did consider the complaint about how Aviva handled the claim and requests 
for information. She said she could see there had been some delays but she thought the 
£200 Aviva had offered to pay for the time spent on the claim was fair for the level of 
inconvenience caused to the trust. So, she didnt think Aviva needed to do any more.
Mr T wasnt happy with our investigators view. He thought shed missed some points of 
complaint. A series of correspondence followed but ultimately the investigator and Mr T 
werent able to agree  so the matter came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 
18 August 2021. In that provisional decision, I outlined the outstanding complaint points and 
then gave my thoughts on each, as follows: 
Delays in providing information
The executors notified Aviva of Mr Bs death in June 2018, but I cant see that Aviva 
replied until December 2018. And then it took them until October 2019 to follow up with 
the executors and obtain details of the trustees. Im inclined to say Aviva should have 
followed up with the executors much more quickly  and this likely caused a delay of 
around twelve months. 
Mr T and Mrs Ws claim against the policy was eventually paid in September 2020. 
Between October 2019 and September 2020 they were trying to understand what the 
policy was and why the sum assured was so much lower than that originally sold to Mr B. 
Their information requests to Aviva were aimed at understanding the policy before 
making the claim. In addition, Aviva needed to check Mr T and Mrs Ws identification 
documents before paying out on the claim. Im aware theres a dispute about the identity 
checks having been done twice and the delays and inconvenience this caused. Im 
inclined to say it was reasonable for Mr T and Mrs W to want more information about the 
policy before making the claim. And it was reasonable for Aviva to need to confirm the 
identity of the trustees before making payment. On balance, Im inclined to say that of the 
10-month period from the end of October 2019 (when the trustees could have first 
submitted a claim) and the beginning of September 2020, Avivas delays in providing 
information caused about 5 months of this delay.
So in total, I think the delays in providing information likely delayed payment of the claim 
by around 17 months. Aviva have paid interest on the policy value from the date of death 
to the date of settlement  but this was at their standard rate (Bank of England base rate 
plus 1%) and in line with their terms and conditions. Im inclined to say Aviva should pay 
additional interest to the trust for the 17-month delay. This should be calculated at the 
statutory rate of 8% per annum simple interest. Im minded to say Aviva are entitled to 
deduct the actual amount of interest they paid for this time period.
Calculation of the sum assured of £7,791
As our investigator said in her view, the sum assured reduced to £7,791 in 2003. Its 
reasonable to say the trust should have been aware of this, as the review letter was 
issued to the lead trustee at that time. The time limits set out by the Financial Conduct 
Authority say that we cant look at complaints raised more than three years after the complainant should reasonably have been aware of cause to complaint (if the event 
complained about was more than six years ago)  and so Im inclined to agree with our 
investigator that this aspect of the complaint has been raised too late and I cant consider 
it.
However, I note that Aviva explained in their final response letter to Mr T that the sum of 
£7,791 was the amount that in 2003 was expected to be supported for the whole of his 
life by the premium Mr B was paying at the time (i.e. by paying £26.23 monthly he should 
be able to have £7,791 cover for the whole of his life). These amounts are usually 
calculated by reference to statistical data on mortality rates and investment returns.
Information about management charges and administration fees
Mr T says he needs this information to understand the context of advice given by Aviva to 
Mr B during the life of the policy. He says that without knowing what management 
charges Aviva were taking from the fund each year the trustees dont know how poor the 
advice given was. 
Aviva have since provided some information about their management charges and this 
has been provided to Mr T. Although I appreciate its inconvenient to request information 
more than once, I dont consider the management charges to be material to the policy or 
to the complaint and so Im not inclined to make any findings on this aspect.
The offer of £200
Mr T has declined Avivas offer of £200 compensation for their delays as he says it should 
be made to the trust rather than to himself. I can understand why Aviva offered the 
payment to him but Im inclined to agree that any payment for inconvenience and costs 
should be to the trust rather than to Mr T personally. Ive considered below the total costs 
incurred by the trust so wont make a separate finding on this £200.
Cost to the trust
I can see Mr Ts spent a great deal of time on this matter. Hes a retired chartered 
accountant and has invoiced the trust £4,720 for his time in that capacity. Mr Ts invoice 
says hes spent 11 hours on the work hed have expected to need to do, and an 
additional 32 hours on additional work needed as a result of Avivas delays and errors. 
His invoice says his rate for this additional work is £120  so the total cost is £3,840.
However, Mr T says some of this time has been spent investigating whether the policy 
was mis-sold, and investigating whether Aviva gave Mr B poor advice. I cant say Aviva 
should pay for Mr Ts time on these tasks. I can appreciate Mr T has needed to spend 
some time chasing Aviva when theyve failed to provide documents hes requested. And I 
can understand he wanted to clarify exactly when the policy was made paid up and the 
implications of this after Aviva gave some misleading answers in this respect. But Im 
inclined to say around 6  8 hours would have been reasonable for chasing up this 
information. This gives a range of costs of £720 - £960.   
To date, the trust has paid £1,000 of the £4,720 invoice to Mr T. I understand this was 
paid on account in around June 2020. Theres no indication of when the trust might make 
any further payment to Mr T  hes related to the beneficiaries so its not an arms length 
transaction. Taking all this together, Im inclined to say Aviva should pay £800 to the trust 
to compensate it for the costs incurred. And Aviva should pay simple interest at 8% on 
this £800 from the date the payment was made by the trust to the date of settlement.Aviva accepted my provisional decision but Mr T did not. In summary, he raised the following 
points:
If Aviva didnt have evidence of his identity prior to August 2020 they shouldnt have 
sent him confidential information during that timeframe.
It was Mr Ts responsibility as a trustee to get to the truth for the trust. Because of 
Avivas delays and errors, this caused him a considerable amount of personal stress 
which Aviva should compensate him for.
Most importantly, he was unhappy with my suggestion that 6  8 hours would have 
been reasonable. Mr T reiterated that hed spent 43 hours working on the trust. He 
re-estimated the amount of time that Aviva had caused at 26 hours (costing £3,120), 
referred to his timesheet, and asked me to reconsider my estimate.
The £1,000 paid on account to Mr T was his sisters 50% share of £2,000 on account 
 the trust didnt have any funds and it didnt make sense for Mr T to pay himself for 
the other 50% share. Therefore, he didnt think I should award interest to the trust  
as the costs had been incurred by the trustees personally. Instead, he said, any 
interest should be payable to be beneficiaries or the trustees personally.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the comments Mr T made in response to my provisional decision, but they 
havent changed my mind. So my final decision is unchanged from my provisional decision. 
Ill explain briefly.
Confidential information
This is the first time Mr T has complained about Aviva sending him confidential information 
prior to confirming his identity. If he wants this investigated he would need to raise this as a 
new complaint to Aviva  its not appropriate for me to look into it at this late stage.
Personal stress
I cant direct Aviva to compensate Mr T for the personal stress hes suffered as a trustee of 
the trust. I appreciate hes put in a lot of hard work and felt that Aviva have caused his 
competency to be called into question. But it is the trust which is the eligible complainant  
and so I can only award compensation for financial loss or inconvenience to the trust. 
Cost to the trust
Mr Ts reiterated his comments about the hours he spent on this matter. However, they dont 
change my mind about what would have been a reasonable amount to incur as a result of 
Avivas delays and errors. Im satisfied that around 6  8 hours would be reasonable for 
chasing information from time to time, and making additional enquiries after Aviva gave the 
wrong information about the date the policy had been made paid up. Much of the additional 
time seems to have been spent on detailed notes, timelines, and lengthy letters which Im 
not persuaded were necessary. Indeed, the total costs Mr T invoiced the trust amount to a 
significant proportion of the total payment from the life assurance  which seems 
inappropriate and disproportionate.Recipient of interest award
Mr Ts now told us that the £1,000 paid to him on account was in fact paid by the other 
trustee, on behalf of the trust  rather than by the trust itself. However, I can only direct Aviva 
to pay the trust, not an individual associated with the trust. The cost was incurred by the trust 
and Id expect the other trustee paid it on the assumption shed be reimbursed by the trust. 
So Im satisfied its reasonable for Aviva to pay the £800 and the interest to the trust, and for 
the trustees to distribute those funds as they see fit.  
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding the trusts complaint in part. Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited need to pay to the trust:
8% per annum simple interest for 17 months on the £7,791 proceeds of the policy, 
less the interest Aviva actually paid the trust for the corresponding period.  
£800 to cover the additional costs incurred by the trust, together with 8% interest 
thereon from the date of payment by the trust to the date of settlement.
If Aviva consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, they should tell the trust how much theyve taken off. They should also give the 
trust a tax deduction certificate if asked for one, so the trust can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask BMBT to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman