DRN-3418639
The complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax treated him unfairly when he experienced 
problems with his credit card account following the COVID pandemic. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mr P contacted Halifax to query the amount he was due to pay towards his 
credit card account as he had come to the end of a payment deferral that had been in place 
as a result of the COVID pandemic . But Mr P was given incorrect information during two 
calls with Halifax about the amount due. 
Halifax accepted it had given Mr P incorrect information. In recognition of this and the 
inconvenience caused, Halifax refunded interest of £114.83 and paid Mr P £60 to cover his 
next direct debit payment and £150 compensation.
In September 2021, Mr P contacted Halifax again as he had attempted to use his credit card 
in a store, but it was declined. 
Halifax investigated what had happened and it explained that a block had been placed on Mr 
Ps card in error. This caused his credit facility to be withdrawn. Halifax explained this had 
happened due to a system error which had recorded the COVID payment deferral 
incorrectly. Halifax paid Mr P £100 in recognition of the distress caused to him by this error. 
Mr P raised a formal complaint about the issues he had experienced with his credit card 
account as he didnt think Halifax had done enough to put things right. Mr P also said that 
thought hed been treated unfairly due to his dyslexia, which he had told Halifax about. 
Halifax reviewed Mr Ps concerns and accepted it had made errors. But it thought it had 
taken reasonable steps to put things right. It also assured Mr P that the issues he had 
experienced werent connected to his dyslexia.
Mr P wasnt happy with Halifaxs review of his case and referred his complaint to this 
service. An investigator looked into the merits of this case and found Halifax had dealt with 
the mistakes it had made reasonably. And there wasnt any evidence to suggest the errors 
had occurred due Mr Ps dyslexia. 
Mr P remained unhappy, so the case has been referred to me  an ombudsman  for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the issues Mr P has experienced with his credit card account. Its not in 
dispute that Halifax provided Mr P with incorrect information and due to internal problems, 
his credit card was also blocked. Mr P has also had to spend time contacting Halifax to 
resolve these issues which I appreciate must have been stressful for him. So, Ive given 
careful thought to whether the subsequent actions taken by Halifax is enough to fairly 
recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr P encountered. 
Mr P was in touch with Halifax mostly by telephone. I have listened to the calls that took 
place in relation to this complaint. Having done so, I think the total payments made to Mr P 
are fair. I know Mr P will be disappointed as he didnt think Halifax had done enough to put 
things right, so Ill explain why.
While Mr P was initially given wrong information in two calls in May 2021, Im persuaded that 
these didnt have a drawn-out impact on Mr P. I say this because Mr P was ultimately given 
the correct information on the same day. I can also see that when Mr P raised concerns they 
were looked into promptly. So, Im satisfied Halifax has done enough to put things right here.
Unfortunately, Mr P experienced further issues when his card was blocked in September 
2021. I appreciate having his credit card declined in a store must have been both 
embarrassing and frustrating for Mr P. But during his calls with Halifax, I think it provided him 
with a reasonable explanation to explain why his card had been blocked and he was assured 
this was due to a system error. And once Mr P raised the issue, it appears the block was 
removed, and Mr P was able to use his card. 
Mr P says when he had issues in May 2021 Halifax shouldve looked at his account in more 
detail and been aware of the issues that led to the block. I appreciate Mr Ps view. However, 
in May 2021, I dont think there would have been anything to prompt Halifaxs complaint 
handler to look into this aspect of Mr Ps account. So, whilst I understand Mr Ps frustration, I 
dont think Halifax couldve taken any further steps before the issue became apparent in 
September 2021. 
Halifax offered Mr P £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to him as 
a result of the block which meant his card payment was declined. Mr P doesnt think this 
award is enough. Reaching an award for distress and inconvenience is seldom 
straightforward. The issues involved are subjective by their very nature and the impact on 
the consumer can be difficult to determine. I understand Mr P had already had a negative 
experience with Halifax in May 2021, so the issues in September 2021 must have been 
particularly upsetting for Mr P. But I also think the steps Halifax took at the time were 
reasonable. Mr P was given an explanation of the cause of the problem, and the block was 
promptly removed allowing Mr P to continue to use his card.  Im satisfied the £100 
compensation award recognised the inconvenience caused. I wouldnt expect Halifax to do 
anymore in relation to this issue.
Looking at Mr Ps concerns it seems he feels strongly that he was discriminated against 
during his dealings with Halifax. Im sorry to hear that Mr P feels upset by the treatment he 
received from Halifax. Mr P informed Halifax he had dyslexia in January 2021, and he 
agreed that this information could be recorded on its systems. Halifax says this information 
would enable it to support Mr P when managing his account. But Mr P says his account was 
red flagged because of this information being recorded and he believes this led to the issues 
he has since encountered. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ps comments alongside the information provided by Halifax. I 
think a key issue here is that Mr P has experienced account problems after he informed 
Halifax of his dyslexia. So, I can see why Mr P has linked his disclosure of his dyslexia to the 
mistakes Halifax made.  
However, I think its most likely that the incorrect information that was provided in May 2021 
was a result of human error. And I can see that Halifax has explained that the system problem resulting in Mr Ps account being blocked affected numerous customers accounts, 
not just Mr Ps. So, although Mr Ps dyslexia was recorded on Halifaxs system, I think its 
most likely that his account was blocked due to general systems errors because of the 
COVID payment deferrals rather than the information about his dyslexia. 
Mr P has also raised concerns about some of the customer service he received. Mr P has 
spoken to several Halifax call handlers during the course of his complaint, and I appreciate 
this has involved a considerable amount of time and effort. But, based on the calls I have 
listened to, Im satisfied the call handlers have acted professionally and tried to assist Mr P 
where possible. I understand mistakes have happened, and Halifax accepts things couldve 
been handled better given the issues Mr P has experienced. But I think Mr P has been fairly 
compensated for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced, so I wont be making 
any further award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr P complaint as Halifax has already paid Mr P fair 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its errors caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman