DRN-3667103
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that AWP Assistance UK Ltd (AWP) didnt attend a call out for 
loss of power. The policy is in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr D.
What happened
Mr D had buildings and contents insurance which included Home Emergency cover, 
underwritten by AWP. The home emergency part of the policy was administered by company 
A.
Mr D experienced a complete loss of power, so he claimed for an emergency callout under 
his policy. AWP said it would send someone out. Mr D chased for an update on two 
occasions, and on the second call he was told no one was available. The engineer attended 
the following day.
Mr D complained to AWP because hed explained when he first called that he was a 
vulnerable person and his garage door was stuck open. AWP looked into his complaint and 
said that it had restored power to Mr Ds home within 15 hours, so it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. Mr D brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think AWP had responded to Mr Ds request for a callout as well as it 
couldve done. He said if AWP had told Mr D there would be a delay sending someone out, 
he couldve made alternative arrangements. Our investigator agreed that Mr D had 
experienced inconvenience and distress so he recommended AWP should pay £100 
compensation.
Mr D accepted the proposed outcome, but AWP didnt respond, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
In the absence of any comment from AWP, Im limited to considering the evidence Mr D 
presented, which includes AWPs response to his complaint. Having looked at AWPs 
response, theres no indication that it disputes the facts. AWP simply said to Mr D that it 
considered a 15-hour response time reasonable in the circumstances.
While I agree that 15 hours may be reasonable, and the policy doesnt state that an 
appointment will be carried out sooner, AWP couldve done more to manage Mr Ds 
expectations. If it had said no one would be available for an emergency callout until the 
following day, Mr D wouldnt have been left waiting for an engineer visit which wasn't going 
to happen that evening, or he wouldve been better prepared to wait. I understand Mr D told 
AWP about his vulnerability, yet theres no evidence that AWP took that into consideration.
In light of the minimal evidence available to me, and accepting that, on balance, Mr D 
wouldve told AWP about his personal circumstances, Im satisfied that AWP didnt handle 
Mr Ds claim as well as it couldve done. Our investigator proposed £100 compensation, 
which Mr D accepted. Having considered the amount, I think its fair in the circumstances. 
Therefore, Ill require AWP to pay Mr D £100 for the failure to manage his expectations when 
he made a claim under his policy for an emergency callout.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and AWP 
Assistance UK Ltd must:
pay Mr and Mrs D £100 compensation for failing to manage their expectations when 
they made a claim under their policy for an emergency callout.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman