DRN-2933785
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander Consumer (UK) plc trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance, didnt provide him with a copy of his executed conditional sale agreement. He also 
complains that Santander Consumer (UK) plc applied a higher rate of interest to his 
agreement than the rate hed been told by the credit intermediary.
What happened
Mr A acquired a car by way of a conditional sale agreement from a dealer (G) in August 
2020. G completed an application for the conditional sale agreement with Santander. Mr A 
says that G completed the application form on an iPad and he didnt sign the agreement. He 
says that G didnt provide him with a copy of the agreement at the time.
Mr A says G told him the rate of interest which would be applied to the agreement was 7%. 
Mr A says he only discovered in January 2021, after Santander sent him a copy of the 
agreement, that the actual rate of interest he was paying was 13.9%APR. Hed asked 
Santander for a copy of the agreement but he says this hadnt been provided to him until 
January 2021 and only after multiple phone calls. He says its evident that he didnt sign the 
agreement because its been completed in lower case type. As this is grammatically 
incorrect, he says hed never have signed the agreement in that way.  He repaid the 
agreement a few days after receiving the executed copy of the agreement and complained 
to Santander about what had happened.
Santander investigated his complaint. It said that Mr A had esigned the agreement. It said 
that, in order to complete an esignature he wouldve had to answer detailed security 
questions to verify his identity. It said it had made enquiries of G and G confirmed it would 
have given him a copy of the executed agreement at the time of completion. The 
pre- contract information, the explanations document and the conditional sale agreement all 
made clear that the rate of interest was 7.3% per annum fixed and that the APR was 13.9%. 
So, Santander didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr A didnt agree. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint. He said he didnt think, on balance, that thered been any misrepresentation by G. 
He said the rate of interest was 7.3% fixed which was in line with what Mr A said hed been 
told. Hed referred to being told that the rate was 7%. But there was no evidence to support 
this.
Our investigator also considered what Mr A had said about not signing the agreement and 
not being given a copy of it. He said hed have expected Mr A to have signed the agreement 
and reviewed its terms in circumstances where he was about to drive away a car hed just 
acquired. So, he didnt think Santander needed to do anything further to resolve the 
complaint.
Mr A didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has raised a number of issues. So, Ive looked at each of these in turn:
Signature on the Agreement
Mr A says he didnt sign the agreement and hes referred to small letters being used to print 
his name on the agreement. 
The evidence from Santander is that the agreement was signed using an electronic 
signature. And, because an electronic signing process was used the printed name on the 
agreement was not manually inserted. Rather, it was entered once the electronic signing 
process had been completed. That process wouldve required Mr A to answer various 
security questions to confirm and authenticate his identity. The type written name on the 
agreement wouldve been entered automatically once that process had been completed to 
confirm his consent to the agreement. That may explain why his name appeared on the 
agreement using only lower-case letters. 
Electronic signing can be used as a means to sign important documents  such as the 
conditional sale agreement here. Theres no persuasive evidence thats been provided to me 
to suggest that the agreement here wasnt properly executed. And, having considered 
everything, Im satisfied on balance that the agreement was signed by Mr A. 
The rate of interest
Mr A says that he thought the interest rate on the agreement was 7%. He says he now 
knows the rate of interest was 13.9%APR and he says hed never have taken out the credit if 
hed known that this was the rate of interest.
Id just point out that there is a difference between the annual rate of interest  which in this 
case was actually 7.36% fixed - and the APR. The APR is the annual percentage rate and it 
takes account of a number of factors including the interest rate and additional charges based 
on various assumptions. 
The rate of interest set out in the agreement was 7.36%. Mr As recollection of what he was 
told is that the rate of interest was 7%. 
Hes also told us that hed applied for a personal loan a few days before going to visit G. 
Hed considered paying for the car using a personal loan. The rate hed been quoted for the 
personal loan was 8.9%APR. He hadnt accessed or signed the loan agreement  so, its not 
clear what the rate of interest wouldve been on the loan had he proceeded.
Having thought about it, on balance, I think its likely G did tell Mr A the correct rate of 
interest. It was just over 7% and it was set out in the agreement. As Mr As told us that the 
rate of interest was important to him, I wouldve expected him to have asked to see 
confirmation of the rate of interest at the time and before he committed to the agreement. He 
says he didnt do that. But, I can see that he made the regular repayments required under 
the agreement from the date the agreement started in August 2020 until he repaid the loan 
several months later in February 2021. 
Copy of the Agreement
Mr A says he wasnt given a copy of the agreement. He says that his brother was with him at 
the time and he can confirm that this is correct.
The date when Mr A was given a full copy of the executed agreement is important. The 
reason I say this is that the agreement makes clear that Mr A has a right to withdraw from the agreement. The period during which he can exercise that right begins one day after he 
has received a copy of the executed agreement and ends fourteen days later.
Ive noted on the documentation that Santander has sent to us, and which it copied to Mr A 
in January 2021, that there is a declaration on that document which is signed by G. The 
declaration states that G represents and warrants to Santander that the agreement has been 
signed by Mr A and that it was completed in full before it was signed. The declaration goes 
on to state that G had given Mr A a printed full copy of the agreement to keep. This 
declaration is signed by G.
There is some doubt about whether or not G did give Mr A a copy of the agreement. I say 
this because Santanders records show that Mr A phoned it on 5 August 2020 and asked it 
to send him a copy of the agreement pack. Santander hasnt been able to provide a copy of 
this phone call because of the passage of time. But it has provided its notes, recorded at the 
time. So, Ive been able to take into account the information recorded on the notes.
The notes show that Santander told Mr A the agreement would usually have been posted to 
him but if he didnt receive it, to contact it again. Theres no record to indicate that Mr A 
made any follow up phone call to say he hadnt received the pack. And, Santander has 
confirmed to our service that it automatically issues a copy of the agreement to the 
consumer as soon as the agreement goes live. Theres no evidence to indicate that hadnt 
happened here.
Having considered everything, Im persuaded on balance that Mr A was sent a copy of the 
executed agreement shortly after the date when he signed it. And, Im satisfied the 
agreement set out all of the terms, including the rate of interest, which hed accepted when 
he signed it. In these circumstances, I dont require Santander to have to do anything more 
to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Santander Consumer 
(UK) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman