DRN-3709497
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F complained about how a payment arrangement to reduce the arrears on
their joint mortgage with Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited (SPML) showed on their credit 
files. Mr F said this had stopped him from buying a new home, and needed to be changed.
What happened
This complaint deals with a mortgage in joint names, and our service has Mrs Fs permission
to consider the issues raised here, but Mr F has communicated with us, so Ill refer to him
throughout.
Mr F told us that this mortgage got into arrears in 2015, during a very difficult time when he
was going through a divorce. He started making the monthly payments again in 2016, and
he was also making regular overpayments to clear the arrears.
Mr F finished paying off the arrears in early 2020. The house was sold and the mortgage
was redeemed at the end of 2020.
Mr F then wanted to buy another house, but discovered that, for all the time that hed been
paying down the arrears on his old mortgage, his mortgage company had been reporting the
arrears to credit reference agencies. Mr F said it looked as if he hadnt paid his mortgage for
several years. But hed been paying without fail, since he entered into an arrangement to
clear those arears, and the payments had got larger over time. Mr F also said SPML had told
him his credit file wouldnt be affected if he stuck to this agreement.
Mr F said hed raised this with the credit reference agency (CRA) which was reporting it,
but the CRA said it was only reflecting what SPML told it, and it couldnt change that. And
SPML said the information it had reported was correct.
Mr F said while SPML was trying to deal with this, it wrote to him with details of someone
elses case. He said now SPML was blaming the CRA for what showed on his file, but he
thought what had gone wrong was SPMLs fault. He told us how this had impacted him, hed
lost his dream home and incurred significant costs through that, which he thought SPML
should pay. But he said the most important thing was for his credit report to be corrected.
Mr F sent us his full credit file, which showed no issues with repayments other than on this
mortgage. The mortgage record shows that for some years Mr Fs payment was 6  noted
as being 6 months late or 6 months in arrears.
SPML said the mortgage had fallen into arrears in 2015, and Mr F set up an arrangement to
repay those arrears in August 2016. SPML said arrears are reported to the CRAs as a
number, representing the total payment overdue, in monthly amounts. So 0 is up to date, 1
means that the arrears on the account add up to one contractual monthly payment, and so
on. SPML said that if payment is being made every month but arrears are on the account,
then those arrears will still be reported, at the relevant level.
SPML said it had looked at the reporting it had done during the time that the mortgage was
in arrears, and it thought it had been done correctly. So it wouldnt change this.
SPML apologised for sending Mr F a letter intended for someone else. It understood that this
would have caused him concerns. It said it would like to pay him £25, to cover the cost of a
two year registration with a service which may be able to help prevent possible identity theft.
SPML sent us a statement for this mortgage. That shows payments resumed on the
mortgage in August 2016, and the amount paid since then has consistently been more than
the contractual monthly payment, right up until the mortgage was redeemed in late 2020.
SPML also showed us samples of the quarterly mortgage statements it had issued. Those
letters told Mr F that this mortgage was in arrears, and included the following warning 
Due to the Payment Arrears on your account, your credit rating is adversely affected
meaning that you may have difficulty obtaining credit. We are obliged to provide
status details of your account on a monthly basis to the Credit Reference Agencies
(CRAs). The information provided to the CRAs relating to your credit history will
remain on your credit file for a period of six years.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said SPML was making an
accurate monthly report of the arrears on Mr Fs mortgage. He sympathised with Mr F, who
had been making his monthly payments, but said SPML didnt have to change the reporting.
Our investigator also said SPML had apologised about the mistake in correspondence. He
didnt think that had caused any detriment to Mr F, so SPML didnt have to do more.
Mr F said he couldnt understand how this decision was reached. He hadnt missed any
payments, and had consistently made the promised overpayments. He said if hed chosen to
ignore the arrears then his credit file would still have looked the same, so what incentive was
there for people to try to repair things? He said his mortgage payments through this time
were paid on time and without any defaults so his credit file should reflect this position.
Mr F wanted to stress that he had a payment plan agreed, and that SPML had told him the
arrears wouldnt continue to impact his credit rating once the plan was in place, as long as
he honoured the payments.
Mr F also said hed had advice from a financial advisor that once the agreement was in place
and mortgage payments are paid on time each month then this should not show as another
default, although the account would show arrears.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Mr F wanted his complaint to be considered by an
ombudsman, so the case was passed to me for a final decision. And I then reached a
provisional decision on this case.My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in
part. This is what I said then:
I should say before I begin, that whilst I do think this complaint should be upheld,
because I have identified a minor error in the credit reporting by SPML, I dont think that
the arrears which are showing on Mr Fs credit file are a mistake. So this decision may
not produce the outcome that Mr F wants. Ill explain why Ive reached this view.
Mr F said hed sought advice on what his credit file should show, and he said that once
hes in a payment arrangement, there shouldnt be any default. There is no default on
Mr Fs mortgage.
Mr F has also said that what he could see on his credit file was a series of missed
payments. But thats not quite right either. Strictly speaking, what a mortgage company
reports to CRAs isnt missed payments. The report it makes each month is a number
between 0 and 6. A zero means the account is up to date. A number between 1 and 6
represents arrears which total one or more monthly payments. (Although arrears can
obviously add up to more than six months of payments, reporting stops at 6.)
Often those arrears do happen because a payment has been missed, and thats why
CRAs sometimes say that whats visible on a credit file is a missed payment. But the
CRA is responsible for how the information it receives is presented, SPML isnt. In this
case, the CRAs report that Mr F shared with us made clear that the marks on Mr Fs file
are either missed payments or months of arrears. So, for quite some time while Mr F
was making payments, his credit file shows him as six months in arrears. Thats
because he was still more than six months behind on his payments during this time.
The letters SPML has shown us do set out that the payment arrangement Mr F was in
would affect his credit file. So I do think Mr F was warned that this would be the case. 
Because these marks werent a mistake, and because I think SPML did warn Mr F about
this, I dont think SPML has to remove the arrears it has reported from Mr Fs credit file.
Mr F also said there wasnt any recognition of the fact that he had tried to tackle the
problem. There is something else that mortgage companies report each month too, and
thats whether the person who has arrears is in a payment arrangement. That is a way
of making sure that when someone has got considerable arrears on their account, but
they are working with the lender to tackle this, their credit file reflects the fact that they
are addressing the problem.
I asked SPML what it had reported onto Mr Fs credit file, and I can see that whilst it
shows Mr F in a payment arrangement for most of the time between August 2016 and
when the arrears were cleared, it hasnt included that payment arrangement marker for
all the relevant months. And what SPML has told me makes me think not only that Mr F
was in a payment arrangement for all of this time, but also that he stuck to it. So I think
that SPML does need to amend its reporting, to show that Mr F was in a payment
arrangement for all the months from August 2016 to March 2020, inclusive.
This is a joint mortgage. So when Mr Fs credit file was affected by this mistake, Mrs Fs
credit file was also affected. For that reason, I will ask SPML to amend her credit file in
the same way.
Its up to CRAs how they reflect this payment arrangement. Not all CRAs may make this 
visible to Mr F and Mrs F on their reports, but it should be visible to prospective lenders.Mr F said that what SPML had done meant he couldnt get a mortgage, and it caused
him to lose his dream house. But Ive explained why I dont think SPML was wrong to
report the arrears I can see on Mr Fs credit file. Mr F can offer more evidence on this if
he wishes. But my current view is that it is, unfortunately, very unlikely that even if the
payment arrangement was properly recorded on his credit file, lenders would have
reached a different view on granting him a mortgage at that time. So Im sorry to tell Mr
F that I dont think SPML has to pay compensation for the purchase costs that he lost, or
for the stress of a house purchase falling through.
Mr F also received some misdirected correspondence from SPML. It has apologised for
this, and, in case Mr F was concerned about the security of his personal data, it offered
to cover the cost of Mr F enrolling for two years with a service which can help prevent
identity theft. I think this was a fair and reasonable offer for SPML to make, and I dont
think it has to do more than that to make up for this mistake.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision.
SPML replied, but Mr F and Mrs F didnt.
My second provisional decision
SMPL sent our service further evidence, and because of that, I changed my mind on one 
part of this complaint. So I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint and 
explained why I did propose to uphold it, but with a very slightly amended award. This is 
what I said then: 
SMPL wrote to our service to say that Mr F wasnt in a payment arrangement for all of 
the time that Id said it should show as a payment arrangement on his credit file. SMPL 
said the arrangements were cancelled and then a new arrangement agreed at a later 
date. It sent us what it said were example letters to show this. A letter dated 23 June 
2018 said Mr F hadnt made payments as agreed so SMPL had cancelled his 
agreement. And a letter of 5 November 2018 said that Mr F had set up a new payment 
agreement.
I wrote to SMPL to say that this letter appeared to rely on a single missed payment, and 
this also appeared to be the single missed payment which was visible on the payment 
history, throughout the time when Id suggested amendment to the credit files of Mr F 
and Mrs F. I asked SMPL to send me details of each time that the payment arrangement 
lapsed, if SMPL wanted me to take into account other times when that happened.
SMPL said the primary purpose of the letter was to let the customer know the 
arrangement had failed, rather than highlighting any single payment. SMPL said it had 
located a letter showing the arrangement started in August 2016, and couldnt find any 
further letters. So SMPL thought the credit files for Mr F and Mrs F should reflect them 
being in a payment arrangement from then (assuming records went back that far). And a 
new arrangement was set following the letter dated November 2018.
SMPL also wanted to clarify that it wouldnt be appropriate to record an arrangement 
flag once the arrears on the account were no longer being reported. So it said that any 
arrangement should stop before March 2020, when they were no longer in arrears.
Mr F and Mrs F havent replied to our service.
I do think its appropriate to amend my proposed award in this case a little, to reflect 
what SMPL has told us. Its reasonable for SMPL to have removed the payment arrangement in June 2018, when Mr Fs direct debit payment failed. And its also 
reasonable for SMPL to ask Mr F to get back in touch, before it would reinstate this 
arrangement. It has now shown that he did this by 5 November 2018, when it wrote to 
him to confirm the new arrangement.
So I propose that his credit file, and that of Mrs F, should be updated to show them both 
in a payment arrangement from August 2016 to June 2018, inclusive.
SMPL says that it reinstated the arrangement in November 2018, but it appears not to 
have reported an arrangement for this month. I think it should report a further payment 
arrangement from November 2018 (not December 2018, as currently appears) until 
arrears cease to be reported onto their credit files, in 2020.
SMPL said it couldnt show an arrangement for March 2020, because it wasnt reporting 
arrears then. But the information it sent us suggests it did report 1 in March 2020. So 
there appears to be some confusion here, possibly because credit files usually report in 
the month following any changes on the account. So, however SPML achieves this, I 
think the second payment arrangement should run from November 2018 until arrears 
cease to be reported onto Mr F and Mrs Fs credit files, in 2020.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F and Mrs F didnt reply to my second provisional decision. SPML did respond to say it 
had received the decision, but suggesting it may not reply within the deadline I had given. I 
wrote to SPML to clarify, and extend the deadline somewhat, but no response has been 
received within the revised timescale. I do think its appropriate now to finalise this decision. 
Neither side offered any further evidence or argument in response to my second provisional 
decision, and I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Southern Pacific Mortgage Company must amend its credit file 
reporting for Mr F and Mrs F, to show that each was in a payment arrangement for this 
mortgage, from August 2016 to November 2018, inclusive. And it must also amend their 
credit files to show that each was then in a second payment arrangement from November 
2018 until arrears cease to be reported onto their credit files, in 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman