DRN-3767404
The complaint
Miss C complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited cancelled her motor 
insurance policy without telling her. She wants the policy reinstated, the cancellation marker 
removed, and compensation for the losses she has incurred. 
What happened
Miss C took out a policy with First Central through an online comparison site. First Central 
asked Miss C to provide documents to validate the policy on two occasions. But these 
werent provided. First Central then sent notice of cancellation and then cancelled the policy. 
Miss C said she only discovered this when she tried to make a claim following an incident. 
She said she hadnt received any emails or texts from First Central. She said it had caused 
her to drive whilst uninsured. Miss C is represented in this matter by her mother, Ms C. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought First 
Central had provided evidence that Miss C had received its texts and emails. She thought it 
had cancelled the policy in keeping with its terms and conditions. 
Ms C replied that Miss C hadnt received any emails or texts from First Central in regard to 
the validation or cancellation of the policy. She questioned the validity of evidence submitted 
by First Central. Ms C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its 
come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C has explained to us the effect the cancellation has had on her financially. And I was 
sorry to hear about this. Ms C asked that we obtain a full folder of Miss Cs policy records 
from First Central. But as the policy had just been taken out, I wouldnt expect to see more 
than First Central has already provided us. 
Ms C also asked that we consider her statements as equally valid as First Centrals 
evidence. And she questioned whether First Central has acted honestly in this matter. 
Whilst I can understand Ms Cs frustration and suspicion, I cant see why First Central would 
cancel Miss Cs policy without good reason. And I have no evidence to show that it has 
misled us or falsified its records. Ms C also asked us to consider general information about 
First Central. But that isnt my role. My role is to consider Miss Cs complaint and decide 
whether or not First Central has treated her fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the 
terms and conditions of her policy. 
Ive read and considered all the information provided by both parties. But, like our 
Investigator, Ive focused here on what is relevant to Miss Cs complaint. And Im satisfied 
that Miss C has complained that she is unhappy that First Central cancelled her policy 
without asking her for the validation documents or notifying her of the cancellation. 
Miss C said she first learned of the cancellation when she logged into her online account 
after an incident. She then found four documents from First Central. These were:
11 March 2022 Request for validation documents
18 March 2022 Second request for validation documents 
5 April 2022 Cancellation confirmation stating that the policy would cancel in seven 
days
5 April 2022 Cancellation notice that the policy has been cancelled and cover will end 
in seven days time.
 First Central sets out when it can cancel the policy on page 50 of the policy booklet:
The insurer can authorise us at any time to cancel your policy by sending you seven days 
written notice to the last postal or e-mail address we have for you on our system. Examples 
of when we can do this include:-
 if you fail to keep payments on any instalment plan up to date
 if you fail to respond to reasonable requests for information by your insurer or us or an 
agent acting on behalf of the insurer;
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for First Central to request validation documents from 
Miss C. But Miss C said she didnt receive these requests by email or text. 
This service believes that insurers and intermediaries like First Central should take 
reasonable steps to ensure that policy holders are told that their policy has been cancelled 
as this will have serious consequences for them and expose them to possible court action. 
So we would expect First Central to contact Miss C by at least two different means. And Im 
satisfied that it did this. 
First Central said it had sent emails and text messages on 11 March 2022 and 18 March 
2022 requesting validation documents. And it said it sent two emails on 5 April 2022 giving 
notice of the cancellation and a further email asking for the documents, or an additional 
premium, or else the policy would cancel. It said these were sent to the email address and 
phone number listed on the policy. But there was no response from Miss C.
First Central has provided us with a screenshot from its system showing the correspondence 
it sent to Miss C. First Central said it had evidence on its system that showed that the 
policys welcome email and the cancellation email had been opened, and I have seen this. 
But it said the other emails hadnt been opened. It said Miss C had called it on the phone 
number it had on file. So it thought she had received the texts and emails it had sent. 
And Im satisfied from this evidence that First Central did send the validation requests and 
the cancellation notifications as it said it did. Im satisfied that they were sent to the correct 
email address and phone number. And Im satisfied that Miss C received and opened at 
least two of the emails. But she didnt respond. 
I can see that First Central gave Miss C seven days notice of the cancellation as required by 
the policys terms and conditions. And so, as it hadnt received the requested documents or 
the additional premium, I think it has fairly and reasonably cancelled the policy. And so I 
dont require it to reinstate it or provide Miss C with any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman