DRN-2802188
The complaint
Mr Rs unhappy Equiniti Financial Services Limited failed to complete a share trade hed 
agreed to.
What happened
Mr R contacted Equiniti in October 2020 to sell some shares he held. He was quoted a 
market price and given a 15 second window to accept the trade. Mr R confirmed he wished 
to proceed but there was an error before the trade could complete.
Equinitis advisor told Mr R shed received an error message and hadnt received 
confirmation if the trade had gone through. The advisor confirmed the market was volatile 
and shed look into the error with the assistance of another team, before confirming if the 
deal had gone through or not as soon as she could.
Equinitis advisor called Mr R back later that day and confirmed the trade had not gone 
through.
Mr R was unhappy and asked for the price hed been quoted earlier in the day to be 
honoured, something the advisor wasnt able to do. She advised Mr R the market had closed 
during the call and hed need to call back the following day should he wish to proceed with 
the sale. Mr R contacted Equiniti the following day to proceed with the sale but at a price 
22.2p less per share than hed been quoted the previous day. 
Mr R complained to Equiniti saying they should honour the price he was given for the original 
attempted trade by compensating him the difference in share prices. Mr R was also unhappy 
hed been unable to receive emails including his contract of sale for this trade and another 
hed completed.
Equiniti investigated. They explained they provide an execution only service and rely on the 
Retail Service Providers to accept and fill the orders placed. They said on this occasion, as 
the market had moved between Mr Rs quote being requested and him accepting it the 
Retail Service Providers would not honour the price. 
Equiniti said as the trade did not execute, they disagreed theyd dishonoured the agreement 
and said it wouldnt be appropriate to compensate him for the difference in share prices. 
With regards to Mr R failing to receive emails, Equiniti asked him to send them an email from 
the address linked to his account so they could investigate the issue. They did acknowledge 
hed spent a significant amount of time contacting them and paid him £100 for the delays 
and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr R remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into things but thought Equiniti had acted within their terms and conditions. He said 
the trade hadnt completed due to movement in the market at the time, and as this was out 
of Equinitis control, he didnt think it would be fair to hold them responsible. 
As such our investigator didnt think Equiniti needed to compensate Mr R for the lower price 
hed received when he did complete the trade. Our investigator also thought the payment of 
£100 made to Mr R fairly compensated him.
Mr R disagreed with our investigator saying Equinitis terms state they will do everything they 
can to carry out an instruction theyve accepted, and he didnt agree theyd done so. Mr R 
asked our investigator to confirm if the London Stock Exchange had stopped trading those 
specific shares during the period hed tried to trade. Should he not be able to do this, Mr R 
said his trade had failed due to Equinitis own fault, which is their responsibility and within 
their control, rather than being due to volatility in the market.
Our investigator said he appreciated the London Stock Exchange may not have stopped 
trading the shares but as Equiniti received an error before the trade had completed, they had 
a duty to look into what had happened before the trade could be attempted again. Our 
investigator said Equinitis terms and conditions made provision for events of this type and 
on this occasion, he was satisfied theyd applied the terms fairly.
As Mr R remained unhappy the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Mr R, Im not upholding his 
complaint and for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Equiniti explained in their final response letter, they provide an execution only service, 
meaning they rely on market makers to accept and fill their orders for them. On this occasion 
theyve said between them requesting the quote and confirming Mr Rs acceptance, the 
market had moved meaning the Retail Service Provider would not honour the price that had 
been quoted.
Mr Rs asked the question if his trade was frozen intentionally or not. And it would appear it 
was intentional that the Retail Service Provider did not wish to proceed with the trade. This 
resulted in an error message being generated when Equiniti attempted to confirm Mr Rs 
acceptance.
Its important to explain that in order to uphold a complaint I must be persuaded that the 
financial business being complained about has made an error or done something wrong. To 
do this Ive looked at Equinitis terms and conditions. They say: 
When we accept an instruction from you, we will do everything we can to carry it out. 
However, we will not be responsible for any loss or expense you incur because:
we were unable to carry it out for any reason
there was a delay in implementing your instruction because of changes in market 
conditions before the transaction could be made
The terms continue to list further reasons, but I consider these to be the key conditions that 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
Equiniti tried to confirm Mr Rs acceptance of the quoted price but as Ive explained the 
Retail Service Provider had withdrawn the offer and the deal was never executed. Im 
satisfied this was out of Equinitis control.
I understand Mr R feels strongly that the initial price hed been given had been agreed and 
was binding, so he feels it should be honoured. He points to the fact the advisor told him once the order had been placed it wasnt possible for him to cancel or amend the order in 
any manner. Had the advisor confirmed the deal had been executed Id be minded to agree 
with Mr R, but unfortunately the deal never reached that stage and Equiniti received an error 
message when attempting to accept the deal. 
Equinitis advisor told Mr R on the initial call that due to the error shed received she didnt 
have confirmation if the trade had gone through. She explained shed need to confirm this 
before the trade could be attempted again. Mr R was selling all his holding in the specific 
share, so Im satisfied it was a reasonable requirement for the advisor to look into the matter 
to ensure the same holding wasnt sold twice.
Mr Rs trade failed at 3pm. Equinitis advisor said shed endeavour to get back to Mr R 
before 4:30pm that day but would contact him the following morning if that was not possible. 
I can see that the advisor got back to Mr R at 4:23pm that afternoon. I understand Mr Rs 
frustrations considering the share price had dropped during that time, but Im satisfied 
Equiniti looked into the error theyd received within a reasonable timeframe. So, whilst Im 
satisfied Equiniti acted within the terms and conditions they set out, Im also satisfied they 
applied them fairly and reasonably, doing everything they could to carry out the trade.
Equiniti did pay Mr R £100 to compensate him for the delays and inconvenience hes been 
caused. It was also to acknowledge an issue hed experienced in receiving emails from 
them. Im satisfied this amount fairly reflects the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has confirmed he accepted this in relation to the inconvenience caused and not to 
compensate him for his financial loss. But for the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied 
Equiniti arent responsible for any financial loss Mr R incurred so I wont be asking them to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman