DRN-1658282
The complaint
 Mrs L complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) have not upheld a chargeback 
claim she made to them or considered a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs L made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a chargeback scheme or a 
section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain 
circumstances, a finance provider can be responsible for a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
chargeback
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action.
The scheme, in this case, is operated not by Sainsburys but by Mastercard and the scheme 
operator sets strict rules under which claims can be made.
For a claim to have been successful Mrs L would have had to provide information to show 
the holiday was not as described. This was disputed by the merchant and given that Mrs L 
did, in essence, get the holiday that was described (the travel and accommodation) I think 
its likely the scheme operator would have rejected the chargeback.
However, its clear that Sainsburys could have provided Mrs L with a clearer explanation 
about the information they required to argue the chargeback claim on her behalf. 
s75 Consumer Credit Act (1974)
Section 75 is a little technical. It was established as it was understood that the legal right a 
consumer has against a merchant may not be enough protection for them. So, section 75 
established a liability on the provider of credit as it was believed they would have more 
leverage over the merchant to resolve the issue and would, in any case, be less inhibited by 
the expense of suing the merchant.
It's usual in section 75 claims for there to be a requirement for the creditor (Sainsburys here) 
to have a relationship with the supplier of the goods. Initially Sainsburys didnt think that was 
the case as their relationship was with the travel agent who Mrs L had paid for the holiday 
and it wasnt with the holiday provider.
However, by law, with package holidays such as this one, the travel agent is also 
responsible for the performance of the accommodation, flights and certain other tourist 
services. So for the purposes of section 75 it doesnt matter that Mrs L paid the travel agent 
because the agent is liable for the performance of the whole contract in the same way as the 
supplier of the travel services in the package.
So, I think Sainsburys should have considered Mrs Ls section 75 claim and as they didnt I 
will consider how to put things right.
I think there has been a breach of contract here as its clear the first room provided, in which 
Mrs L stayed for one of six nights, did not have a sea view. The bus trip was also delayed by 
several hours and the schedule will therefore not have been as advertised.
Putting things right
Mrs L did receive most of what she paid for. Its therefore fair she pays for some of the 
package.
But, given the bus delay and problems with the accommodation I think it would be fair for 
Sainsburys to refund one sixth of the total cost of the holiday. The total cost was £930 so Im 
asking Sainsburys to refund £77.50 per person. That should be refunded along with any 
associated interest.
The travel agent has already made a payment of £75 in respect of poor customer service 
and I think that reasonably covers the other problems Mrs L experienced. 
Sainsburys have offered a payment of £25 to compensate Mrs L for the delay in resolving 
the matter and, given the delay incurred, I think thats reasonable. 
Theyve waived the interest and charges that applied during their consideration of the 
chargeback complaint and I think that compensates Mrs L sufficiently for them not explaining 
the information required. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Sainsbury's Bank Plc to:refund £77.50 per person and remove any associated interest;
pay Mrs L £25, unless theyve already done so, to compensate her for the distress 
and inconvenience experienced with the delay in getting her complaint resolved.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman