DRN-3556395
The complaint and background
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc ought to have done more to protect him from falling
victim to what he claims was an investment scam.
In short, Mr Ps complaint concerns 17 online debit card transactions, amounting to 
approximately £28,000, which took place in February and March 2021. They were all made 
to trade360.com. Mr P says this company used bullying, manipulation and untoward tactics 
to entice him to make investments.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. It said trade360.com predominantly operates in the 
contracts for differences (CFD) investment market, and the bank didnt think its operation 
consisted of fraud. Because it wasnt in dispute that Mr P authorised these payments, HSBC 
was unable to refund them. It also said it asked Mr P for information it needed to raise a 
chargeback dispute, but he didnt provide the requisite evidence for a claim to succeed. 
When bringing the matter to our service, one of our investigators wasnt satisfied 
trade360.com was fraudulent. They therefore thought that HSBC couldnt fairly be held 
accountable for Mr Ps loss. And in terms of attempting a recovery via chargeback, our 
investigator agreed that HSBC had taken reasonable steps to raise this for Mr P. 
Because Mr P disagrees, the case has been escalated to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant legislation, plus various principles of good practice, make it clear that banks do
have a duty to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams.
Also, as a firm regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), HSBC has a regulatory
obligation to counter the risk that its accounts might be used to further financial crime.
Still, this must be balanced with HSBCs other duties. Theres a provision that delaying a
payment instruction could lead to a breach of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs), which set requirements for the timing of payments such as the ones that Mr P made
to trade360.com. Whats more, while the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
necessarily constitute unauthorised investment advice, in circumstances such as these, 
there is a general prohibition that HBSC should not be providing investment advice 
pertaining to where a consumer should choose to invest (or not invest) their money.
In other words, its possible that HSBC could have warned Mr P about the dangers of falling
victim to investment fraudsters, without providing him investment advice. But these
obligations should only reasonably have been engaged under the PSRs if there were
sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee (i.e. trade360.com) was a fraudster; meaning 
that HSBC could have delayed the payments while concerns about trade360.com were 
discussed with Mr P.
Hence, why I would need to be satisfied that trade360.com was operating a scam when 
these payments were made in early 2021 in order to expect HSBC to have done anything 
further here. When determining this, Ive borne in mind that certain high-risk investment 
traders (such as CFD merchants) may use sales methods, or communication styles that can 
be seen to be unfair. Especially, when considering the financial losses incurred because of a 
disappointing return on an investment thats been promoted. Even so, not all complaints to 
us involving CFD merchants are in fact a scam. While the ways and means of these 
businesses can be viewed as unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt necessarily 
mean they amount to the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud.
The FCA and other powers regard the use of industry intelligence as critical to detecting and
preventing investment fraud. Accordingly, Ive paid particular attention to the official
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive
depended on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities
regulators. And Ive relied on the FCAs own warning list, which is in place to share alerts
and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being fraudulent.
These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there were no
such warnings about trade360.com at the time these payments were made in 2021. Rather, 
the evidence demonstrates that Mr Ps money went to a legitimate business, that was 
actually regulated in another jurisdiction at the material time (and continues to be so now). 
Suffice to say, illegitimate or illegal firms set up with the intention of scamming consumers 
are highly unlikely to submit themselves to regulatory oversight. To that end, Im satisfied 
theres strong evidence trade360.com wasnt fraudulent or operating a scam.
Overall, Im not convinced trade360.com was the perpetrator of investment fraud  and this 
has been confirmed by authoritative sources covering cross-industry forums and various 
jurisdictions. While Ive paid due regard to the concerns Mr P has raised about the 
techniques trade360.com employed, and the material hes submitted to support that this firm 
was running a scam, I must follow the evidence and, ultimately, I am not persuaded 
trade360.coms practices extended to a fraudulent outfit back in early 2021.
As Ive concluded that the payments Mr P made to trade360.com were not fraudulent, 
HSBCs duty to intervene wasnt triggered. There was the inevitable risk of Mr Ps 
investments returning a loss, based on market performance. But as Ive explained, HSBC 
isnt required to protect its consumers from the risk of financial loss due to investment 
advice/choices, or bad bargains. Therefore, HSBC did not act unfairly by not undertaking 
counter measures. 
Finally, while Mr P may disagree, Im satisfied HSBC asked him to provide the information 
necessary to attempt a chargeback; it gave ample opportunity for him to make arrangements 
for this to be submitted to the bank. In fairness, theres documentary record of the bank 
reiterating the need for Mr P to respond in multiple letters, along with letting him know that it 
would close down the claim in light of HSBC not receiving a response to said 
correspondence. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by VISA, who act as an arbitrator between a 
merchant and customer if they cant resolve a dispute themselves. Its subject to their rules, 
and there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. VISAs rules did cover 
investment trading  in 2017, it expanded them to cover situations where investment traders 
prevented cardholders from withdrawing their available balance. But it required very specific 
evidence, such as dated evidence that they had an available balance, and that they tried to 
withdraw sums equal or less than their balance. In the end, Mr P didnt provide this evidence when HSBC asked for it. I appreciate there may 
be reasons for that  but it doesnt change VISAs chargeback rule requirements. It follows 
that I dont think HSBC acted unfairly when they didnt raise a chargeback, because I cant 
see it had the requisite evidence for a successful claim. 
So, in all, I dont think HSBC ought to have prevented these payments before they went 
ahead, and I dont think there was a viable route for the bank to raise a chargeback later. 
Consequently, I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for Mr Ps losses.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman