DRN-2160559
The complaint
The estate of Mr Ns complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC is about the delay in 
transferring an ISA allocation to a new broker.
What happened
The estate of Mr N (the estate) wanted to transfer the late Mr Ns ISA Additional Permitted 
Subscription (APS) allowance from Barclays to another broker. The new broker sent a 
request to Barclays on 19 September 2018. 
The transfer was delayed and took several months to complete. Barclays said they hadnt 
received the first request and the new broker re-sent it. Barclays said theyd responded in 
November 2018, but the new broker didnt receive their reply. Barclays re-sent their 
response twice, but it was only received by the new broker on 22 January 2019. 
The estate complains the transfer should have been done within 30 days, but it took until 
January 2019 for it to be completed. The estate says the delay caused a significant financial 
loss to the beneficiary, the late Mr Ns wife. It also caused distress and inconvenience.   
Barclays said they made reasonable attempts to ensure the transfer was completed within 
30 days. But they offered to pay £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said that our service could only look at the 
impact of Barclays actions on the estate and not at any loss or inconvenience caused to the 
receiving beneficiary. She said shed seen evidence that Barclays had received the first 
request sent by the new broker but not acted on it. Following our investigators view, 
Barclays agreed to pay the estate a further £100 in compensation for the delays and 
providing incorrect information.
The estate disagrees with our investigators view and has asked for an ombudsman to make 
a final decision.
my provisional decision
I gave my provisional decision in August 2020.
I looked carefully at what happened and the reasons why it took so long to transfer the ISA 
allowance. The first request was sent to Barclays by the new broker on 
19 September 2018. Barclays said they didnt receive the request. But it was sent by 
recorded delivery and Id seen evidence it was received and signed for by Barclays on 
28 September. 
I said the first request might have been lost at Barclays after it had been signed for. 
But whatever the reason, it appeared Barclays took no action until they received the second 
request which the new broker had sent on 22 October. 
Barclays said they obtained a valuation and sent a transfer declaration to the new broker on 
12 November 2018  within 30 days of receiving the second request. Id seen a copy of 
Barclays letter of 12 November. Barclays also said they re-sent the declaration on 
12 December 2018 and 3 January 2019. Unfortunately, the new broker didnt receive the 
declaration until Barclays emailed it on 18 January 2019.
I noted also the call between a representative of the estate and Barclays on 
28 November 2018. During that call, Barclays said they hadnt received the transfer request. 
But by then, theyd not only received the request, but sent a transfer declaration to the new 
broker.
 
I was satisfied the initial delay in transferring the ISA allocation was caused by Barclays not 
acting when they received the first request from the new broker. That delayed things by at 
least three weeks until the new broker sent a second request. 
But once Barclays received the second request they acted promptly. So I didnt think I could 
hold them responsible for all the delay when there was evidence they responded to the new 
broker on 12 November 2018.   
Based on what Id seen, I thought it was reasonable to say Barclays were responsible for 
about three weeks of the delay experienced by the estate. They also provided incorrect 
information to the estate in the phone call of 28 November. 
I looked at the impact of the delay caused by Barclays. The estate had said that a 
beneficiary, the late Mr Ns wife, lost out because of the delay in investing some of the 
money transferred from Barclays. It said Mrs N had always intended to invest £30,000 in a 
managed portfolio. Although she went ahead and did so, she missed out on growth during 
the period her investment was delayed. 
I thought about whether I could look at Mrs Ns loss of opportunity to invest sooner. 
This complaint had been brought by the estate as a customer of Barclays. Although 
Barclays actions caused inconvenience, the estate itself didnt lose out financially as a result 
of the delay. And Mrs Ns wife was not a customer of Barclays in this case.
But Mrs Ns investment loss was actually a diminution in the value of her inheritance. 
As such, it was a matter for which she could hold the executors of the estate responsible. 
They might have to make good her loss. It would therefore form part of the claim being 
brought by the executors dealing with Mr Ns estate and was something for which I could 
make an award for prospective loss in my decision on this complaint.
The transfer was completed on 22 January 2019 and the new broker invested £30,000 of the 
funds on Mrs Ns behalf on 21 February. The estate said that if Barclays hadnt delayed 
things, Mrs N would have made her investment by 28 December 2018. It said the portfolio 
Mrs N invested in grew by about 3.8% between 28 December 2018 and 21 February 2019, 
so Mrs N lost out on growth of about £1,148. The estate said Barclays should pay this plus 
interest.
I said I couldnt be sure how quickly the transfer would have been completed if Barclays had 
acted when they received the initial request on 28 September 2018. So I couldnt say with 
certainty how much Mrs N lost out on as a result of Barclays delays.
But Id already said that I thought Barclays were responsible for about three weeks of the 
delay experienced by the estate. So I thought it was reasonable to say that, but for Barclays 
error, Mrs Ns investment could have been made three weeks earlier. I therefore looked at the growth of the portfolio in the three weeks before the new broker made the investment for 
her.  
Based on the figures Id seen, the portfolio increased in value by about 1.45% in the three 
weeks before Mrs N invested in it. That would represent an increase in value of £435 on a 
£30,000 investment. I was therefore minded to say that Barclays should pay the estate 
compensation of £435. 
Id not seen information on the value of the portfolio since February 2019, or whether Mrs N 
still held it. For simplicity, to compensate for any loss of growth on the sum awarded, 
I thought Barclays should add interest of 8% simple a year from 21 February 2019 to the 
date of settlement.
The estate had also said Barclays caused considerable distress and inconvenience. I said it 
must have been a very frustrating experience, at an already difficult time, for the family of the 
late Mr N.
But under the rules governing our service, we can only tell a business to pay compensation 
for trouble and upset experienced by their customer, not by a third party. So we cant award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to executors who have brought a complaint on 
behalf of an estate.
That meant I couldnt make an award for the inconvenience caused to the estate in this 
case. Barclays had previously agreed that they should pay a total of £350 to the estate for 
the delays and the incorrect information they provided. I said I couldnt tell Barclays to make 
that award, and the estate would need to follow that up with Barclays direct.
responses to my provisional decision
Barclays made no comments on my provisional decision. The estate said that Barclays were 
responsible for delaying the transfer by three months and should pay compensation to reflect 
that. Ive considered what the estate has said in my findings below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The estate provided a copy of a letter from the new broker giving the timeline of events from 
their perspective. I can confirm I took account of the letter before writing my provisional 
decision, but Ive looked at the letter and all the available evidence again in coming to my 
final decision. 
The estate asked whether the letter Barclays sent to the new broker on 12 November 2018 
was sent to the correct address and by recorded delivery. The estate also asked whether 
there could have been wider problems with post at Barclays, given the suggestion that the 
new brokers original request might have been lost.
As I said in my provisional decision, Ive seen a copy of the letter and transfer declaration 
Barclays say they sent on 12 November. Both the covering letter and the declaration are 
dated, and the letter is correctly addressed to the new broker. Barclays have said the letter 
wasnt sent by recorded delivery. Ive also seen a screenshot of a log kept by Barclays which 
says the letter was sent on 12 November. I accept that I cant be sure the letter of 12 November went in the post. But in situations like 
this I need to make a decision on the balance of probabilities. And based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I think its most likely Barclays sent the letter, but it wasnt received by the new 
broker. Barclays are not obliged to send such letters by recorded delivery and so I cant say 
they did anything wrong by not doing so in this case.   
The estate has also said the new broker sent further letters to Barclays on 22 October, 
6 November and 27 December 2018. And a representative of the estate called Barclays on 
28 November. So Barclays should have been aware there was a problem and re-sent the 
transfer declaration sooner.
Im satisfied that Barclays acted on the new brokers letter of 22 October and responded on 
12 November, which was within 30 days. When the new broker sent their request again in 
December, Barclays re-sent their response. But the new broker didnt receive anything until 
Barclays emailed the transfer declaration to them on 18 January 2019. 
 
Its likely that the transfer could have been completed sooner if email had been used earlier 
in the process. But I cant tell businesses how they should communicate with each other. 
Im satisfied that Barclays responded to the new broker on 12 November and to further 
requests after that. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to say that Barclays should be held responsible for the three months 
delay the estate has suggested. 
Overall, I still think its fair and reasonable to say Barclays were responsible for about three 
weeks of the delay experienced by the estate. If it wasnt for Barclays error, Mrs Ns 
investment could have been made three weeks earlier. My findings on what Barclays should 
do to put things right remain the same as in my provisional decision, based on the same 
calculations.  
Barclays had previously agreed that they should pay a total of £350 to the estate for the 
delays and the incorrect information they provided. As I explained in my provisional decision, 
I cant tell Barclays to make that award, and the estate would need to follow that up with 
Barclays direct.
Putting things right
To compensate the estate of Mr N fairly, Barclays should pay the estate compensation of 
£435. They should add interest of 8% simple a year from 21 February 2019 to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold in part the estate of Mr Ns 
complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.  
Barclays should put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr N 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman