DRN-3975436
The complaint
Mrs F complains DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined her 
roadside assistance claim.
What happened
In September 2022 Mrs F made a claim for assistance against her DAS roadside assistance 
policy. But assistance was refused as DAS felt she was less than one mile from her home 
address - when her policy only provides assistance where a breakdown occurs more than a 
mile away. 
Mrs F complained as she felt she was more than a mile from her home. In response DAS 
said she was refused assistance in line with the terms of her policy. It didnt accept Mrs Fs 
complaint its call handlers had been rude or unprofessional. She wasnt satisfied so came to 
this service. She would like DAS to apologise and reimburse recovery costs and £200 spent 
on repairs. 
In January 2023 our investigator considered the complaint. She said by her calculations 
Mrs F was less than one mile from her home. So she felt DAS had fairly refused assistance. 
Mrs F didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F policy says assistance will be provided for breakdowns that occur more than a one-
mile radius or straight-line distance from her home address. Ive checked the distance 
between Mrs Fs home and the location of the breakdown. And Ive considered what shes 
said about DAS using an incorrect home address for her. But Im satisfied the distance 
between the two was less than a mile. So I cant say DAS unfairly refused her claim. That 
means Im not going to require it to reimburse her recovery costs or to do anything 
differently. 
Mrs F didnt ask this service to consider her complaint about DAS staff being rude to her. So 
I havent looked at that issue. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman