DRN-4445563
Complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that this agreement was unaffordable for him 
as he was already behind on payments to other agreements. 
Background
In January 2021, Moneybarn provided Mr S with finance for a used car. The purchase price 
of the vehicle was £10,495.00. Mr S paid a deposit of £200 and took out a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £10,295.00. The loan had interest and charges 
of £8,769.08 and a 60-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£19,064.80 (not including Mr S deposit) was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of 
£323.12.
Mr S complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr S complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr S 
complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr S complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr S before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr S provided details of his monthly 
income, which it cross referenced against electronic checks it carried out using credit 
reference agencies. 
It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr S which had shown Mr S had previously 
defaulted on credit. The credit search also showed that Mr S also had no county court 
judgments (CCJ) taken out against him. In any event whats important here is that, in 
Moneybarns view, when the amount Mr S already owed plus a reasonable amount for Mr S 
living expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments for this 
agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr S says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr S and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Im not persuaded that the checks Moneybarn carried out 
did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Mr S living costs given what Moneybarn saw on the credit search it carried out. 
And I think that this ought to have led Moneybarn to do more to verify Mr S actual regular 
living costs. That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr S actual living 
costs would have made a difference to Moneybarns decision to lend in this instance. 
To be clear Im not going to carry out a forensic analysis of whether the loan payments were 
affordable. Im simply going to consider what Moneybarn is likely to have done if it obtained 
the information I think it should have done. I say this because the information Mr S has 
provided about his finances at the time appears to show that when his visible committed 
regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly 
income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due 
under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mr S actual circumstances at the time might have been worse than 
what the information he provided to Moneybarn showed. For example, Mr S says that he 
already had a finance agreement that had defaulted, which he wasnt making any payments 
towards. 
However, having looked at the information Mr S has provided, it appears to me that his living 
expenses didnt make this agreement affordable. Furthermore, even if Moneybarn had asked 
Mr S for bank statements, which it wasnt required to, his last statement prior to applying for 
this loan showed significant surplus funds in his account. And any possible balance on an 
existing car finance agreement is unlikely to have posed a problem here.
So while I do appreciate that it has proved more difficult for Mr S to make his payments, I 
dont think that asking for more information would have prevented Moneybarn from lending 
in this instance. 
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not persuaded that 
Moneybarns checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr S did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr S. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman