DRN-4065459
The complaint
Ms O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund her money she says she lost as 
a result of a scam.
Ms O is represented in this matter by Refundee.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Ms O says she has fallen victim to an investment scam which resulted in losses amounting 
to about £24,000.  She says she made about 19 payments all using her debit card between 
May and August 2021.  These payments were all made to a cryptocurrency exchange I will 
refer to as M in this decision.
Ms O raised this matter with Barclays Bank.  Unhappy with its response, she referred her 
complaint to this Service.  One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not 
uphold it.  As Ms O did not accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Below are my findings, in summary, on some of the points Refundee has raised:
In Refudees submissions on behalf of Ms O, they refer to the alleged scammers as 
24 option.  However, in the paperwork provided, it appears as if the alleged 
scammers Ms O was dealing with were in fact called 24 Market Options.  Based on 
this, I am persuaded Ms O was dealing with 24 Market Options, rather than 24 
option.
The CRM code does not apply in this matter.
In my view, Barclays Bank made a fair and reasonable decision not to continue to 
pursue a chargeback claim against M.  I say this because there was little prospect of 
the claim succeeding  due to M having carried out their services as a cryptocurrency 
exchange.
I do not consider that any of the transactions in question were so out of character that 
they should have flagged on Barclays Banks systems.  That said, I do acknowledge 
that some payments did flag  including an attempted payment which resulted in a 
discussion with Ms O over the telephone and a subsequent branch visit.  I will deal 
with this point in more detail in due course.
I also do not consider that there were any other reasons as to why the payments 
should have flagged.
I will now turn to Refundees more significant submissions concerning Barclays Bank not 
invoking the banking protocol; and Ms Os vulnerabilities which Refundee have described.
I can see that on 11 August 2021, Ms O spoke with a Barclays Bank adviser over the 
telephone about a payment she attempted to make to M.  During the course of that call, Ms 
O was questioned about the attempted payment  whereby Ms O explained what it was for 
and assured the adviser all was well.  Having listened to the call carefully, I am satisfied that 
the adviser provided Ms O with a sufficient scam warning which she confirmed she 
understood.  Moreover, in my view, given the nature of the call, it was right of the adviser to 
refer Ms O to branch before allowing her to make any further payments.  However, I do not 
consider that this in itself necessarily meant Barclays Bank should have invoked the banking 
protocol when Ms O arrived in branch.
The key question here is once Ms O arrived in branch: were there serious concerns that she 
was a victim of fraud  sufficient enough to invoke the banking protocol?  Having reflected 
on this point, I am of the view that Ms O alleviated any fears Barclays Bank may have had in 
this respect.  I will explain why.
Based on the evidence before me, it appears once Ms O had identified herself in branch, 
she spoke with Barclays Banks fraud team over the telephone.  This is something I would 
have expected Barclays Bank to have arranged  following the spirit of the banking protocol.
I do not have any testimony from Ms O about her conversation with Barclays Banks fraud 
team.  However, based on Barclays Banks contact notes, it seems likely Ms O reiterated 
what she said in her 11 August 2021 call (just one day prior to the branch visit).
On this basis, I take the view that Ms O would have alleviated any concerns the fraud team 
had in terms of her being a potential victim of fraud  thus allowing her to make further 
payments.  I do acknowledge that some of what Ms O has described about the investment 
bear some features of a scam.  However, from what I have considered (relying on the call 
concerned for reasons given above), I cannot see, for example, that Ms O struggled to 
answer any of Barclays Banks questions; provided any explanations which were 
implausible; or that there was anything else untoward about Ms Os general conduct.  
Moreover, by the point Ms O went into branch, she had already made several payments to M 
 none of which she raised any concerns about.
Refundee have said they understand the investigators point about Barclays Bank not being 
told Ms O was vulnerable at the time.  However, they argue that Barclays Bank ought to 
have been aware she was vulnerable.  I am unable to accept this proposition.  I say this 
because I have not seen any evidence to support that Barclays Bank ought reasonably to 
have been aware of Ms Os vulnerabilities in branch  despite Refundee saying these would 
have been visible, which I have seen no evidence to support.  In fact, the day prior to Ms Os 
branch visit, she had the 11 August call with Barclays Bank.  And, during the course of that call, in my opinion, Ms O did not display any signs of vulnerabilities and/or not understanding 
Barclays Banks scam warning. 
For these reasons, I do not consider that Barclays Bank did anything wrong by not invoking 
the banking protocol.  I am satisfied on balance, that Ms O, whilst in branch, alleviated any 
serious concerns about her being a victim of fraud.
Taking all the above factors together  I am persuaded that Barclays Bank did not do 
anything wrong in the circumstances of this complaint.  Therefore, I will not be asking it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman