DRN-2875443
The complaint
Ms R complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt settled a claim under her 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms R had a multi-trip travel insurance policy that covered her between 30 August 2019 and 
29 August 2020, and it included cover for some declared medical conditions. The insurer 
was URV. Ms R had booked a holiday abroad between 13 and 20 June 2020. Shed bought 
the flights and the cruise separately. 
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel. And 
on 5 May 2020, the airline cancelled Ms Rs flights. So, Ms R cancelled the cruise on 11 May 
2020.
Ms R got a refund for the flights, but not for the cruise. So, she made a claim to URV for the 
cost of the cruise. URV declined her claim because the reason Ms Rs holiday was cancelled 
wasnt covered under the policy terms. Unhappy with URVs decision, Ms R brought a 
complaint to our service. She was unhappy that she was out of pocket by the amount shed 
paid towards her cruise, as well as the cost of a useless travel insurance policy.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Having done so, she didnt think 
URV had done anything wrong when it declined the claim. She said this was because 
Ms Rs policy didnt provide cover in her situation.
Ms R didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, she said she hadnt been 
offered to upgrade her policy when she bought it, and she hadnt been warned that various 
scenarios werent covered. Ms R also said that as her flight was cancelled through no fault of 
her own, she should be able to reclaim the cost of her holiday from her insurer.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the complaint Ms R raised with URV is about her claim being declined. So, this is 
what Ive considered under this complaint. If Ms R has other concerns, such as how the 
policy was sold or about the premium she paid, shell need to raise these with URV in the 
first instance.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Ms Rs complaint.
No insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of 
risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. So, Ive considered the 
policy terms and conditions, as well as the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
in this case. 
An IPID is designed to give consumers a summary of certain information about a policy in a 
way that is easy to understand. This includes excluded risks. On the first page of the IPID 
which URV has provided as relating to Ms Rs policy says under the heading Are there any 
restrictions on cover? that Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise 
against travel to your destination.
The IPID doesnt form part of the contract between Ms R and URV. The IPID specifically 
says the following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of the contract 
which can be found in your policy documentation.
The cancellation section of Ms Rs policy terms and conditions is under a heading If you are 
unable to go on your trip, and it says cover is provided where:
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the 
person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM forces had your leave orders 
cancelled.
Ms R was unable to go on her trip because the airline cancelled her flights, and the FCDO 
had advised against all but essential travel to her intended destination. Neither of these 
situations are one of the specific, listed insured events for which cancellation cover is 
provided. This means Ms Rs claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of her 
policy. 
But Ive also thought about whats fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of Ms Rs 
complaint, taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law. 
If a consumer is left in a position where there is no cover if they cancel their holiday due to a 
change in FCDO advice but also has no cover under the policy if they go ahead and travel 
against FCDO advice  and if I didnt think the policy wording was clear and transparent 
about this  then I might think it would be fair and reasonable for an insurer to consider a 
claim regardless. But I dont think this was the situation Ms R was in. 
As there is no exclusion for travelling against FCDO advice contained in the terms and 
conditions of Ms Rs policy, this exclusion doesnt form part of her contract. So, I dont think 
its correct to say that Ms R wouldve had no cover under her policy if shed gone ahead and 
travelled against FCDO advice, had this been possible.
Ive also considered the other sections of Ms Rs policy, but I dont think she had any cover 
for the circumstances she found herself in.
I can see that URV, rather unhelpfully, sent Ms R a generic email on 27 April 2020 which 
suggested that this policy covered cancellations due to a change in FCDO advice. But I can 
see that URV corrected this information the next day and confirmed that Ms R wasnt 
covered for cancellation in this situation.Im sorry to disappoint Ms R but I dont think her claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of her policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask URV to pay her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman