DRN-2204158
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are seeking to recover £59,630 from TSB Bank plc (TSB), which they lost as 
a result a third-party scam.
TSB says it is not liable for the loss because Mrs B unwittingly authorised the payments 
herself - and it could not reasonably have done more to try to recoup the money from the 
receiving accounts.
Although Mr and Mrs Bs account is held in joint names, as it was Mrs B who requested the 
transactions, I will, in the main, refer to her throughout. 
What happened
On 15 February 2019, Mrs B received a phone call from someone who pretended they 
were calling from the fraud team at the bank her current account was held with. Mrs B 
was told that there had been some suspicious transactions on her account and that the 
fraud team suspected branch staff at her local branch and at TSB. Mr and Mrs Bs 
savings account was held with TSB. 
The caller informed Mrs B that they were working in conjunction with Scotland Yard and 
they knew lots of information about her accounts - as well as the fact that she held a 
savings account with TSB. Because of this, Mrs B trusted what the caller, who we now 
know to be a fraudster, was saying. The fraudster asked Mrs B if she would be willing to 
help with the investigation and asked her to make some payments to various different 
accounts to facilitate the investigation of the criminals. She was told she would be under 
surveillance when she left her house and when she was in the branch. Mrs B was also 
asked to leave her mobile telephone on loud-speaker when she went into branch so the 
fraudsters could hear and record what the branch staff were saying. Over the next couple 
of days, Mrs B made the following payments to the fraudsters accounts (highlighted in 
bold):
Date Activity Amount Balance
08/02/2019 Transfer to Mr B £5,000.00 £83,116.38
08/02/2019 Transfer to Mrs B £5,000.00 £78,116.38
15/02/2019Faster Payment via telephone banking to 
fraudsters account£5,600.00 £72,516.38
16/02/2019Mrs B visits branch to make a CHAPS 
payment - advised it can't be processed on a 
Saturday
16/02/2019 Faster Payment to own account £9,000.00 £63,516.38
17/02/2019 Faster Payment via telephone banking £9,000.00 £54,516.38
18/02/2019 Mrs B visits the branch again
18/02/2019 CHAPS payment in branch £45,000.00 £9,516.38
18/02/2019 CHAPS fee £30.00 £9,486.38
18/02/2019 Faster Payment via telephone banking £9,000.00 £486.38After Mrs B had made the final payment on 18 February, she was told that an 
appointment had been made for her to go into her local branch to get her money back 
and receive a reward. But when Mr and Mrs B attended the branch, it became clear 
that an appointment had not been made and the branch staff werent aware of any 
investigation. Mr and Mrs B became worried and visited their local TSB branch to tell 
them what had happened and at this point it became apparent that Mr and Mrs B had 
been the victims of a scam. 
TSB contacted the receiving banks on their behalf, but all of the funds had been removed 
from their respective accounts. TSB offered Mr and Mrs B a refund of the last £9,000 
transaction as it believed it shouldve asked more questions about it before it processed 
it. But it declined to offer Mr and Mrs B a refund of the additional amount they had lost. It 
said it had carried out Mrs Bs instructions in making the payments and she had told 
branch staff a cover-story when questioned about the CHAPS payment made in branch 
- which had ultimately been convincing enough to prevent TSB staff uncovering the real 
reason for the payments and the scam.  
It said there wasnt anything about the first transaction that would have prompted further 
checks from TSB before they processed it. But the second transaction had been held for 
further verification checks. Mrs B had been contacted and she had confirmed she wished 
to proceed with the payment. 
TSB said it had followed the correct procedures in contacting the beneficiary banks in 
attempting to recover Mr and Mrs Bs funds. But, as the money had already been 
removed from the recipient accounts, there wasnt anything further it could do.
Unhappy with TSBs response, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service and one 
of our investigators looked into things. Our investigator thought Mrs Bs complaint should be 
partially upheld - from the second transaction onwards. She thought, at this point, TSB 
shouldve contacted Mrs B and asked some probing questions and if they had, the scam 
wouldve been revealed. But there was no evidence suggesting this is what had happened. 
TSB didnt accept our investigators findings. It reiterated that it had spoken to Mrs B about 
the second payment and she had confirmed she wished to go ahead. And Mrs B had been 
able to provide a detailed and persuasive cover-story when she went into branch to make the 
third payment. And so even if further questions had been asked at the point the second 
transaction was attempted, its likely Mrs B wouldve provided the same reasoning and 
ultimately been able to persuade TSB staff that the payment was legitimate. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.19/02/2019 TSB made aware of scam
26/02/2019TSB refund telephone banking payment 
made on 18/2/2019£9,000.00 £9,486.38
Total disputed amount £59,630.00In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to consider relevant: law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Upon reading all the available evidence and arguments, I am currently minded to conclude 
that the fair and reasonable outcome would be to partially uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
It is not disputed that Mrs B authorised all of the scam payments herself. I accept that these 
were authorised payments even though Mrs B was the victim of a scam. She used her 
security credentials to request the payments via telephone banking or she went into branch 
and used CHIP and PIN to allow them to be processed. So, although she did not intend the 
money to go to the fraudsters, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms 
and conditions of her account, Mrs B is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I agree with TSB that there wasnt anything about the first payment of £5,600 that shouldve 
put it on notice that Mrs B mightve been at risk of financial harm. This transaction was not 
dis-similar to payments Mr and Mrs B had made in the past. And whilst I appreciate that Mr 
and Mrs B did not often make large transactions from this account, I dont think this 
payment wouldve looked so unusual that it shouldve flagged on TSBs fraud monitoring 
systems and I dont consider the total outlay at this point in itself enough to be an indicator 
of fraud, warranting further action from TSB.
But I am satisfied that by the second payment, a pattern of potential fraud was starting to 
appear and the activity on the account had started to look suspicious. This is because, by 
this point, there had been a series of relatively high value payments happening in relatively 
quick succession to a new payee. And I think this shouldve caused some concern for TSB. 
This is not normal account activity for Mrs B and its uncharacteristic of the way she usually 
manages her account  the account is usually used to receive interest payments and fund 
Mr and Mrs Bs other accounts. 
It is therefore common ground that there were fraud triggers in this case because TSB did 
in fact intervene before the payment was processed - it was blocked by TSBs security 
systems. And so, TSB contacted Mrs B to confirm the payments legitimacy before it 
processed it.  TSB has provided our service with a copy of the call recording of the conversations it had 
with Mrs B about the payment at the time. It also has provided a recording of the 
conversation it had with Mrs B about the first payment. Accordingly, its now just a 
question of whether TSB did enough during the call about the second payment. And Im 
satisfied TSB ought fairly and reasonably, and as a matter of good practice, to have done 
more - I think it ought to have made enquiries about the purpose of and the circumstances 
leading up to the payment before it released it - but I havent seen anything that 
persuades me that this is what happened here.  
Ive thought carefully about the conversations that were had with Mrs B and Ive listened to 
the call recordings. The first call is in relation to the first payment Mrs B makes. During this 
call, Mrs B confirms the amount she wishes to transfer and the account details  she isnt 
asked any questions about the reason for the payment at all. During the second call, about 
the second payment, Mrs B is asked to confirm the amount she wishes to transfer and the 
account details she wishes the payment to go to. TSBs call-handler then tells Mrs B that 
this payment has been stopped and sent to the Payments Verification Team. Mrs B is told 
she will need to speak to this team who will need to verify its her making the large 
payment. Mrs B enquires what questions she might be asked and the call-handler says 
she doesnt know. Mrs B is then transferred through but there is no recording of the 
conversation from this point onwards. I asked TSB if it could provide me with any contact 
notes from the time that documented what was discussed during this conversation but 
unfortunately none were available. 
Based on the evidence I do have, Im not satisfied that the second call goes far enough. I 
havent seen anything that persuades me that Mrs B was asked any questions about this 
payment other than whether it was her who was authorising it to leave her account. And 
Im not satisfied that simply asking Mrs B if it was her that wished to make the payment is 
good enough to fulfil TSBs obligations to protect its customers from financial harm. This 
type of payment review has very little impact on customers who are the victims of well-
known authorised push payment scams - such as this one.
One of the intrinsic characteristics of this type of scam is that the customer makes the 
payment themselves, not knowing they are being scammed. And so, a conversation 
along the lines of what TSB appears to suggest it had with Mrs B in this case wouldnt 
have prevented her from falling victim to this type of scam. It potentially fails to protect 
any customer who believe they are in the process of making a legitimate payment. For 
these reasons, I think TSB ought to have asked Mrs B some probing questions about 
the payment before it released it. Had it done so, I believe the scam would have been 
revealed and prevented. Ill explain why.
Mrs B fell victim to a scam which is sadly all too common. And its a type of scam Im 
satisfied TSB ought to have been aware of at the time. If TSB had questioned Mrs B 
about what the payment was for, Im satisfied she most likely wouldve told TSB she was 
making the payment to pay for some repairs she needed doing on her home. I say this 
because this was the cover-story Mrs B had been provided with by the fraudster. TSBs 
notes from when Mrs B went into branch to make the CHAPS payment suggest that Mrs 
B used the same cover-story in branch too. TSB has said it seems likely, that had 
further questions been asked about the second payment, Mrs B would have answered 
in the same way and ultimately have been able to persuade the call-handler that the 
payment was legitimate. But I dont think this is necessarily the case. 
I accept that Mrs B was able to provide a detailed cover-story when she went into 
branch and this ultimately persuaded TSB that the payment was legitimate. But Mrs B 
has told us at the point she made the second payment, she had not thought about her 
cover story in any great detail at all. Its not clear to me why Mrs B wouldve had to make a second, higher payment so soon 
after the first if the story were true. And had TSB asked Mrs B some probing questions 
about it, it seems unlikely to me that her cover-story wouldve stood up to scrutiny. And I 
think this is the reason Mrs B is concerned about what questions shes going to be 
asked when she attempts to make the second payment.
Mrs B has told us she hadnt thought about her cover-story in great detail at this point. She 
had simply been told to say the transfer was to pay for some repairs. And so, I dont agree 
that Mrs B wouldve been able to provide as much detail as she did when she went into 
branch to make the third payment. She knew her story about the repairs wasnt true and 
Im not satisfied that she would have been able to confidently answer what work she was 
having done, who she had employed or why they were now asking for more money just 
days after she had made a substantial payment to them.  
Ultimately, I think if additional questions had been asked Mrs B wouldnt have been able 
to provide plausible answers that would have reassured TSB that she wasnt at risk of 
financial harm. I think the reason given for the transfers, a well-known cover-story 
provided by fraudsters, wouldnt have stood up to further scrutiny would have become 
clearly suspicious had further questions been asked.
TSB couldve then stepped in and educated Mrs B about scams and their key 
characteristics. It could have told Mrs B that neither her bank nor the police would ever 
ask her to send payments to facilitate an investigation they were conducting. It also 
couldve asked Mrs B to go into branch with the documentation she had surrounding the 
building work if it felt this necessary. Had TSB done so, Im persuaded that this would 
likely have produced some doubt in Mrs Bs mind and effectively broken the spell so 
Mrs B wouldnt have gone on to make any further payments. 
In summary, Im persuaded TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have questioned Mrs B 
about the reasons for the second payment to satisfy itself that it was legitimate, but I dont 
see any evidence that suggests this took place. In other words, if the staff had carried out 
further or better questioning in line with a banks duty of care, it seems probable that Mrs 
B would have become credulous as to what was really taking place. At this point the 
scam would have come to light. The fraud would have failed; and Mrs Bs losses would 
have been limited to £5,600. But by the time the scam had come to light it was too late  
the funds had already been removed from the beneficiary accounts (which meant TSB 
could not, despite efforts, recover any of Mrs Bs funds).
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether TSB 
also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the 
payee banks before they were irretrievably removed by the fraudsters. But for 
completeness, I will say that, it would have made no difference because the recipient 
banks records show that the scammers withdrew the money before Mrs B had notified TSB 
of her concerns. Its likely that Mrs B was told to attend a meeting in branch the day after 
the final payment was made in order to allow the fraudster enough time to remove all of the 
money from their accounts.  
I have also considered whether Mrs B should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising 
the payments, she was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what she was 
doing  she thought she was helping to prevent financial crime, not facilitating it. I am 
satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, Mrs B was the unwitting 
victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the professional in financial matters; Mrs B was a 
layperson.In the circumstances I am satisfied TSB should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr and Mrs 
B for the loss suffered from the second transaction onwards without any reduction, together 
with interest, to compensate them for being deprived of the money lost. I am satisfied that 
had the fraudster not taken the money, it wouldve remained in their savings account, and 
so interest should be calculated at the account rate.
 
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc and direct it to:
refund Mr and Mrs B the remaining £54,030 that they lost as part of the scam; and
pay interest at the account rate from the date the payments left the account 
to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
*If TSB Bank plc deducts tax from the interest element of this award it should provide Mr and Mrs B with the 
appropriate tax certificate so he might submit a claim to HMRC if applicable.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman