DRN-2854689
The complaint
Mr B and Miss W complain that OSL Financial Consultancy Limited (OSL) didnt handle two 
mortgage applications as it should have, which means theyve spent money on legal fees 
unnecessarily.
What happened
Mr B and Miss W had been renting a property for some time. Their landlord said he wanted 
the property back, and gave them six months to move out. Mr B and Miss W thought this 
was a good time to buy their own home, and had an offer accepted on a property on 29 
September 2020. They asked OSL to help them get a mortgage, and an agreement in 
principle was issued by a lender on1 October.
The application forms were sent to the lender, who asked some subsequent questions which 
Mr B and Miss W answered via OSL. Conscious that time was passing, and in order to 
prevent any delays, Mr B and Miss W instructed their solicitor to start the legal searches etc 
that would be needed to complete the sale.
Sometime later (in mid-December)  Mr B and Miss W were told their application was 
declined because the property they wanted to buy was next to a commercial property.
Mr B and Miss W were very disappointed, but looked for another property. They found one 
and again used OSL to get a mortgage. OSL wrote to them in early January 2021 
suggesting that they hold off instructing a solicitor until their mortgage was approved  but 
Mr B and Miss W again instructed one to start searches. 
Unfortunately, a few weeks later, Mr B and Miss W were told their application couldnt 
proceed because the lender said they hadnt passed its affordability criteria. Mr B and Miss 
W sent some more information but they still couldnt get the mortgage they wanted.
Mr B and Miss W complained about how OSL had dealt with their applications. They said 
theyd made it clear to OSL right from the start that the first property was next to commercial 
properties  and that if OSL had passed this information on right at the beginning of the 
process then they wouldnt have wasted a lot of time and money on the application as theyd 
have known it would be declined. They also thought getting the decline had taken too long.
As far as the second application went they say they provided all the necessary information to 
prove they earned enough to pay the mortgage. They say theyve now had to go back to 
renting, and in total spent £1,464.63 on legal fees that theyd like OSL to refund.
OSL didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the first it knew about the commercial 
property next to one Mr B and Miss W wanted to buy was when the lender declined the 
application. It said the lender had caused some delays  in particular in instructing the 
valuation. It said it had chased progress throughout and let Mr B and Miss W know the 
outcome of this application as soon as it could.
With regard to the second application, it said that it appealed the decision not to lend on Mr 
B and Miss Ws behalf  but that hadnt made a difference. And it pointed out that it never 
tells a buyer to spend money on legal work before a mortgage is approved, and that it had 
emailed Mr B and Miss W advising against this when they applied for the second time.
Our investigator didnt think she could uphold the complaint. She said although she accepted 
Miss Ws statement that shed told a member of OSLs staff about the commercial property 
next door, that hadnt been recorded anywhere  and OSL said it didnt know this. She also 
thought OSL hadnt contributed to any major delays and had advised Mr B and Miss W not 
to spend money on legal fees  in particular for the second property.
Ms B and Miss W dont think this is fair. They say theyve been extremely disappointed by 
how OSL handled the applications as well as losing money on legal fees. They want OSL to 
refund their costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to mention every point Mr B and Miss W made, although I have thought about 
everything they said. Im not going to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
for Mr B and Miss W but Ill explain how I reached my decision.
As far as the first application goes, I can understand why Miss W in particular feels upset 
about what happened, as it is she that recalls telling a member of staff about the property 
being located next to a restaurant. That doesnt however show in OSLs records  the 
application says, in fact, that the property isnt next to a commercial property. It doesnt help 
that a recorded phone call that might have cleared things up either way is no longer 
available. I dont think I can safely say who made the mistake here. 
Without clarity on which party made a mistake, I have to think about the effect of any 
mistake. I do agree that some time was wasted on an application that was never going to be 
approved. And of course Mr B and Miss W were disappointed  especially when they were 
under time pressure to find somewhere to live. However, even if OSL did make a mistake 
(and Im not saying it did), Mr B and Miss W instructed solicitors to act for them during the 
purchase process, not OSL. Im satisfied that was their decision  and crucially they made 
that decision almost immediately after getting an agreement in principle from the lender. I 
can understand that they wanted to speed things up  but at that point there was no 
guarantee that a full mortgage offer would be issued. There are many things that can affect 
whether an agreement in principle becomes a full offer, and instructing solicitors before an 
offer is made will always be a customers choice, and carry the risk of costs. 
I can see that there was a delay between OSL sending the application to the lender and the 
result of the valuation being known. I dont think that was, by and large, OSLs fault. I can 
see they chased progress on the application regularly, and it has been noted that the lender 
acknowledged it didnt instruct a valuer when it said it would  and that the valuation took 
longer than expected. But those things arent something OSL can control, so I dont think it 
delayed matters unnecessarily.
When Mr B and Miss W found the second property they again instructed solicitors before 
they knew whether theyd get the mortgage they wanted. This time I can see OSL wrote to 
them and suggested they didnt do that  and we know Mr B and Miss W got the email 
because they acknowledged receipt. So on this occasion too, I think the decision to incur 
costs was made by Mr B and Miss W. I do understand why they did this, but it does mean its 
their responsibility to meet these costs.From what Ive seen the lender on this occasion decided Mr B and Miss W didnt meet its 
affordability criteria. And I understand the lender had also changed this part of the criteria. 
That isnt something OSL can control, so I cant say it was responsible for Mr B and Miss W 
not getting a full mortgage offer this time.
Im sorry Mr B and Miss W have had such a disappointing experience when trying to buy a 
home, but I cant say OSL is responsible for the costs they chose to incur during the 
process.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman