DRN-3150587
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was mis-sold a Gold Account (GA) before 2001, a Platinum Account 
(PA) in October 2002 and a Platinum Club Account (PCA) in April 2014 by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L says that he was automatically given a GA and he wasnt offered an alternative fee free 
account with an overdraft. He says all the fee-paying products he had from Lloyds were 
unsuitable for him.
Lloyds says that it advised Mr L to take out the GA, PA, and PC because they were suitable 
for him at the time.
I wasnt there at any of the sales, so I can only make my decision based on the information 
available today.
Mr L had a fee free account with Lloyds for many years before he took out the GA. And fee 
free accounts with overdrafts were widely available from, and advertised by, Lloyds and 
other financial institutions at the time. 
Ive not seen evidence that Lloyds automatically upgraded Mr Ls account. And if it had 
done so, I think its more likely than not that he would have queried this, and looked 
elsewhere for, and found, the type of account he wanted.
So in my view, while I dont doubt Mr Ls honest recollections, Im not able to say that I think 
its more likely than not that Lloyds just gave the GA to Mr L as I would need to uphold his 
complaint on this point.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr L knew he had a choice whether to take out the 
GA, and he chose to do so.
By the time Mr L took out the PA in 2002 and much later the PCA online in 2014, hed had a 
lot of statements and information about his fee-paying accounts. So, I think he was very 
familiar with packaged bank accounts and the choices available.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr L knew there was a choice and chose to take out 
the PA and the PCA.
Lloyds says it advised Mr L to take its products based on his circumstances at the time of 
each sale. So, Lloyds was required to ensure that the products were suitable for Mr L and 
that he was given enough information to make an informed decision at the time.
Both parties are familiar with the benefits and costs of each product, so I wont repeat them 
here.
There is very little information about the GA sale which is not surprising after all these years. 
But at the time Lloyds was charging a £5 fee on its fee free accounts each time a customer 
went overdrawn. This fee did not apply to the GA. The GA also provided better rates for 
overdrafts.
The statements I have seen for Mr L show that he was regularly using an overdraft 
throughout his use of Lloyds account. So, in my view, I cant say the GA was unsuitable for 
Mr L or that its likely he didnt have enough information about it.
Lloyds has a record of the PA sale showing that it discussed the product with Mr L. And Mr L 
says that at the time he had a car and went on holiday regularly. He was also using the 
overdraft.
Lloyds has provided records that the sale of the PCA was done online, and after he used 
and made claims of the telephone insurance and the travel insurance.
So, in my view, I think its more likely than not the GA, the PA and the PCA were not 
unsuitable for Mr L and he had enough information to decide if he wanted them at the time.
So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in these sales.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman