DRN-3341663
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain about United National Bank Limited (UNB) and the way they 
handled the opening of their account and the transfer of funds into it.
As Mrs B has acted as representative on the complaint, Ill refer to both Mrs B and Mr B as 
Mrs B throughout the decision for ease of reference.
What happened
In June 2021, Mrs B opened a Fixed Term Deposit account with UNB. And it was her 
intention to transfer £30,000 into this. But Mrs B encountered delays when attempting this 
transaction due to delays in her account being set up correctly and incorrect information 
being provided. So, she raised a complaint.
Mrs B was unhappy with the stress and anxiety shed been caused due to the issues she 
faced trying to set up the account. She explained shed been given three different account 
numbers to use when transferring the £30,000 and that this confusion had caused her worry 
due to the transfer of such a significant amount. She was also unhappy with the delay in the 
funds reaching the account, which meant it hadnt accrued interest during that period. So, 
she wanted to be compensated for the upset shed been caused and to be re-imbursed for 
the lost interest.
UNB responded and upheld the complaint. They agreed they had provided Mrs B with 
incorrect information on several occasions. And they recognised the impact this had on the 
funds being transferred into the account as well as the upset this caused Mrs B. So, they 
agreed to back date the interest to 28th June 2021, when the account shouldve reasonably 
been opened. And they offered to pay Mrs M £50 for the upset shed been caused. Mrs M 
remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. At the time they issued their view, 
UNB hadnt provided any documentation, including their complaint response, despite several 
requests. So, our investigator reached their view based on the testimony Mrs B provided. 
And they explained they had no reason to doubt her version of events. So, they were 
satisfied UNB had offered Mrs B £75 to resolve her complaint and had only pay her £50. And 
they had no evidence to show the interest had been backdated. So, they thought UNB 
should pay Mrs B an additional £25 and backdate the interest applied to the account to 28 
May 2021, if it had not already been done.
Mrs B accepted this view. UNB responded and provided their complaint response. And they 
agreed to pay Mrs B an additional £25. But they also stated they wanted to provide our 
investigator with more information. And this wasnt received within the time frame they 
advised. So, our investigator took this as UNB rejecting their view and the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision. 
While the complaint was awaiting a decision, Mrs B provided more information. And this 
included a screenshot which showed UNB agreed to back date the interest to 28 June 2021, 
not 28 May 2021. So, our investigator explained to both Mrs B and UNB that he thought this 
is the date the interest should be backdated to. Mrs B acknowledged and accepted this view. 
Again, UNB didnt reply and so, weve continued with the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs B. I understand Mrs B is 
suffering from a serious health condition and I can appreciate how the stress and anxiety 
caused from this complaint wouldve impacted this. And I can understand why Mrs B would 
be left feeling frustrated and exhausted due to the difficulties she faced.
Im aware UNB have accepted they failed to act fairly when setting up Mrs Bs account and 
arranging the transfer of funds. As this isnt in dispute, I dont intend to discuss this any 
further. Instead, Ive thought about what I think UNB should do to put things right.
Putting things right
UNBs complaint response show they offered to pay Mrs B £50, and back date the interest 
applied to the account to 28 June 2021. But Mrs B has said she was told shed be paid £75 
instead.
Ive seen no evidence to show this was the case. But UNB have since explained they would 
be willing to pay Mrs B a further £25. As this has been accepted by UNB, this is what I think 
they should do.
And I do think Mrs B should be paid interest on the account from the date it shouldve been 
reasonably open and credited with funds. And from what I can see, 28 June 2021 is when 
this reasonably wouldve been. So, if this hasnt been done already, I think this is what UNB 
should do. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint about United National 
Bank Limited and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs B and Mr B a further £25 to recognise the upset theyve been caused; and
If it hasnt already been completed, backdate the interest applied to Mrs B and Mr Bs 
account to 28 June 2021. If Mrs B and Mr B have withdrawn the funds, and this 
interest wasnt backdated, this interest should be refunded to them from 28 June 
2021 to the date of withdrawal.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman