DRN-4516966
The complaint
Miss M complains that Tailored Financial Planning Limited (TFP) delayed processing her 
defined benefit (DB) pension transfer. She says that because of TFPs delays, the transfer 
value, that she was originally offered, was then reduced in value by £116,774.
Miss M would now like TFP to recompense her for the reduced transfer value and the lost 
investment growth on those monies that she believes are attributable to their delays.
What happened
In March 2022, Miss M had a meeting with TFP, to discuss moving her deferred, DB scheme 
and small money purchase pension to her existing self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
After a number of further follow-up interactions, on 31 May 2022, Miss M committed to 
proceeding with the DB transfer and signed the paperwork to move that pension. TFP then 
submitted what they thought was all of the necessary paperwork to the third-party DB 
pension administrator on 13 June 2022, ahead of the transfer value expiring on 24 June 
2022. The next day, after submitting the paperwork, TFP telephoned the DB administrator to 
check to ensure that they had everything that they needed to process the transfer.
The following month, TFP discovered that the DB administrator required an advice 
confirmation letter that hadnt been submitted with the other paperwork on 13 June 2022. 
The DB administrator claimed, therefore, that as all of their requirements hadnt been met, 
the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) that Miss M had been offered, would need to be 
recalculated. Following the recalculation, the CETV that Miss M was then offered to move 
her DB pension reduced from £481,963 to £365,189, giving Miss M £116,774 less than she 
originally thought that shed receive.
Despite the lower than anticipated transfer value, Miss M decided to still proceed with the 
transfer and several months later, her DB monies were moved to her existing SIPP. 
Unhappy with the reduced transfer value, Miss M decided to formally complain to TFP. In 
summary, she said that she was upset that the error had resulted in her receiving a much 
lower transfer value and so she asked TFP to put things right for her. 
After reviewing Miss Ms complaint, TFP concluded that they were satisfied that theyd done 
nothing wrong. They also said, in summary, they felt that given theyd submitted the transfer 
paperwork to the DB administrator prior to the CETV expiry date and that they had also 
telephoned them the following day to check that everything had been received, they felt that 
the DB administrator should be held accountable for the reduction.
Miss M was unhappy with TFPs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. In 
summary, she explained that she didnt think it was reasonable that she should suffer a loss 
of £116,774, when as far as she was concerned, the fault lay elsewhere.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that TFP 
hadnt treated Miss M fairly and had they submitted the advice confirmation letter with the 
original paperwork on 13 June 2022, the mistake would have been avoided. In addition, she 
also felt that, given the telephone call TFP had with the DB administrator was cut off mid-
discussion, that shouldve prompted TFP to call them back. 
TFP, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, they explained that:
They felt that the DB administrators requirements were unclear  they said that the need 
for an advice confirmation letter wasnt set out as clearly as it couldve been.
They also felt that, as theyd spoken to the DB administrator the day after the paperwork 
had been submitted, it was the third-party administrator that should be held accountable 
for the reduced transfer value.
Miss M had signed a disclosure accepting that TFP couldnt be held responsible for any 
delays that may occur during the process. TFP explained that, given shed signed the 
disclosure, it absolved them of the blame.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe that TFP had 
presented any new arguments that shed not already considered or responded to. TFP then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision on this case as I 
explained that, whilst I was minded to agree with the Investigators initial view, I wanted to 
add wider context as to why the complaint should be upheld. And, I also wanted to refine 
how TFP should put things right for Miss M to make the redress approach clear for both 
parties.
What I said in my provisional decision:
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Miss M and TFP, in order to reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding 
whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry 
practice, but it is for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been given, 
what's more likely than not to have happened. And, having done so, Im upholding Miss Ms 
complaint and its largely for the same reasons as our Investigator. Ill explain why below.
I can understand Miss Ms concern at seeing the second transfer value that she was offered 
decrease. In complex transfers such as that of a DB scheme, there are several parties that 
need to be involved in the process, but its important for me to say that this decision focuses 
solely on the actions of TFP, whom this complaint is against. 
Allied to this, I should also explain that I have not reviewed the appropriateness of TFPs 
advice to transfer Miss Ms DB scheme as that is not a concern she has raised in her 
complaint to this service.
Ive looked closely at the timeline of events in this case. As the events are not disputed by 
either party, I dont intend to repeat that timeline here, rather Ive focused on the key dates 
that I feel are particularly relevant. After undertaking their analysis of Miss Ms circumstances 
and completing an abridged advice appointment, TFP reached a conclusion that a transfer 
was likely to be in her best interests. On 26 April 2022, Miss M accessed TFPs online portal 
and accepted TFPs abridged advice, but it wasnt until a month later, on 26 May 2022, that 
TFP then issued a suitability report to her, setting out their recommendations  so it seems 
to me that this element of the process could have been shortened.Miss M was then invited to attend a face-to-face appointment with TFP on 31 May 2022. At 
that meeting, the transfer paperwork was completed, which Miss M then signed. TFP then 
waited nearly two weeks before submitting the paperwork to the DB administrator on 13 
June 2022 and I think that this fortnight delay was a mistake on TFPs part. As Ive already 
explained, though, TFP failed to enclose the advice confirmation letter with that paperwork. 
That meant the DB administrators was unable to process the transfer.
I think, had TFP not waited a month before providing Miss M with the suitability letter and 
then delayed submitting her completed paperwork to the DB administrator by nearly two 
weeks, it would have opened up a greater window of opportunity for the missing letter to be 
identified before the CETV expired. Instead, by sending the transfer paperwork on 13 June 
2022, it only gave themselves and the DB administrator nine working days to identify and 
resolve any issues before the CETV expired. As such, I think that both sets of those delays 
played a contributing factor in why the error wasnt spotted sooner.
In addition, after telephoning the DB administrator on 14 June 2022, the next time TFP 
contacted them again wasnt until 45 days later, on 28 July 2022. That was the day after 
Miss M had contacted TFP to query with them why shed not heard anything back about the 
transfer, so it seems that it was her email that prompted TFP to contact the DB 
administrator, to understand why the transfer hadnt yet taken place. I think that after 
submitting the transfer papers on 13 June 2022 and having not received any written 
confirmation on the progress of the application after several weeks, that should have put 
TFP on a path of discovery that something might be wrong with the transfer request. After 
uploading the transfer paperwork, the DB administrator didnt then issue any further 
communications to TFP, but TFP then waited over six weeks before following up with the DB 
administrator to understand why. As a reminder, my findings focus purely on TFP rather than 
the actions of the DB administrator, but I think its more likely than not that, had TFP 
managed the application more closely, the error wouldve come to light in the days between 
the phone call and the expiry of the CETV and that could have made a difference in getting 
the transfer through on time.
TFP have said that the DB administrators requirement for an advice confirmation letter at 
outset was vague and not clearly communicated to them - but I dont agree. The expectation 
for financial advice firms to submit an advice confirmation letter, which is sometimes called 
an article 53E letter or section 48 declaration, has long been a requirement of pension 
trustees. That letter is designed to ensure that consumers have taken professional advice 
from a suitably qualified pension specialist prior to transferring their DB benefits. In addition, 
the letter provides the requisite disclosures from the adviser that pension trustees must 
receive prior to releasing the transfer monies. Given that TFP hold DB transfer advice 
permissions with the regulator, and by their own admission have transferred many other 
occupational schemes previously, this requirement shouldnt have come as a surprise to 
them.
Ive looked at the paperwork that the DB administrator provided to Miss M and TFP in their 
letter of 24 March 2022. It states that, where the transfer is in excess of £30,000, Miss M 
would need to take advice from a FCA registered adviser. It went on to say: So that we can 
check that this requirement has been met we will need a copy of the written confirmation 
provided to you that confirms advice has been provided, in line with the regulations. The 
confirmation should be addressed to you, be on the advisers headed paper and be signed 
by the adviser. It then went on to explain what must be included in the letter.
Whilst the letter was addressed to Miss M, TFP received the full retirement pack, which set 
out those requirements. The sponsoring scheme employer has also confirmed that all of the 
transfer documentation was provided directly to TFP so that they had sight of all the 
paperwork. The main header letter was, in my view, clear that the contents of the pack were for TFPs attention. And, as Miss M was paying TFP to provide the transfer advice, it was 
their responsibility to act in line with the Regulators Principles, keep her informed and act in 
line with what Miss M would reasonably expect  or tell her if thats not possible. The end 
result of this is that the business, reasonably, could have and should have done more to 
secure the transfer in this particular case. And, having looked at the paperwork that the DB 
administrator sent, it seems to me that their requirements were clearly set out and also went 
on to warn that, without all of the necessary forms, theyd be unable to proceed with the 
transfer without this information. That, in turn, would mean that the IFA would be running the 
risk of placing the consumer in a position where the CETV would expire, and consequently 
having to request a new transfer value from the trustees that could be lower than the 
original.
TFP state that, given they telephoned the DB administrator the following day (14 June 2022) 
to check that all of the necessary paperwork had been uploaded, demonstrates that they 
acted diligently with Miss Ms transfer. In addition, TFP say that given they were told by the 
DB administrator that theyd received everything for Miss M, their responsibilities had been 
discharged. After reviewing the transcript from TFPs telephone discussion of 14 June 2022 
with the DB administrator, I dont agree and thats because, despite what TFP say, Im not 
persuaded that they received a definitive confirmation from the DB administrator that 
everything had been received. Ive noted the relevant section from TFPs discussion with the 
DB administrator below, when they asked them if everything had been received for Miss Ms 
transfer: 
DB administrator  I can see some documentation that was uploaded yesterday to 
{name of DB administrator}. Lets check this. Right, I think that should be fine, but Im 
gonna go and double check this with our admin team just now, just so I can confirm that 
to you.
TFP  okay, thank you.
DB administrator  it looks alright from our side, but Ill just double check that for you.
The call then ended, and Ive seen no evidence that either TFP or the DB administrator 
telephoned back. Arguably, the DB administrator may well have, upon checking, found that 
the advice confirmation letter was absent from the file and could have called back, but as 
Ive already explained, this complaint is about the actions of TFP.
I dont think that call was as conclusive as TFP may believe. Whilst on the face of it, TFP 
were told it should be fine and everything looked alright, the DB administrator explained 
twice that they still needed to check with the relevant team. The call then ended but TFP 
failed to call the DB administrator back, or follow up that discussion with an email or further 
telephone call at a later date. This is important because it was their responsibility of ensuring 
that the DB administrator had everything they needed. But all they had was the DB 
administrators first impression that everything was in place, along with a clear indication that 
this wasnt the last word on the matter and that the paperwork still needed to be checked. Im 
satisfied that TFP should have done more to confirm with the administrators what the 
situation really was. And I think its more likely than not that, had they called the DB 
administrator back, the mistake would have come to light.
So, given the significant consequences of missing the CETV expiration date, I wouldve 
expected TFP to seek definitive assurance from the DB administrator, that confirmed to them 
beyond any doubt, that all of the necessary paperwork had been received to secure the 
promised transfer value.From what Ive seen, the issues of getting Miss Ms transfer completed seem to have 
occurred within the later stages of the consumer journey. And, whilst delays towards the end 
of the process are still a reasonable possibility, they have more of an impact than delays 
earlier on in the process, when hold ups dont matter as much. I think its important to view 
the delays in that context because a weeks delay earlier in the process (when Miss M was 
on holiday) isnt necessarily a critical factor in the scheme of things, whereas the same delay 
at the end of the process can be critical.
In their correspondence with this service, TFP stated that it isnt our responsibility to meet 
the external administrators requirements to secure the transfer value  however, I believe 
that it was their responsibility to give sound, timely advice, and its also their responsibility to 
act with skill, care and diligence and to pay due regard to their customers interests (which is 
the FCAs PRIN 2 rule). So, TFP had to give advice in good time (which I dont think it did), 
and thereafter the consumer reasonably would have expected TFP to act promptly in order 
to secure the transfer. But TFP delayed things by sending the transfer paperwork late and 
when they did so, there was an important document missing and they didnt follow up their 
discussion with the DB administrator after their ambiguous telephone call or thereafter. Also, 
by their own admission, the business knew the deadlines and the fact that the advice to 
transfer was predicated to a certain extent on the CETV, so TFP should have known that 
they couldnt delay things. Miss M agreed to pay TFP an initial advice fee of £6,800 to 
facilitate the transfer  as long as TFP submitted all of the documents that the scheme 
administrator asked of it and prior to 24 June 2022, the CETV offered to Miss M was 
guaranteed. And given that TFP were acting as Miss Ms agent, they had a duty of care to 
ensure that all of the relevant documents were submitted on time and to the standard set out 
 and importantly, theyve already conceded that they didnt.
In addition, Ive also thought about TFPs view that, as Miss M had signed a disclosure 
accepting that they couldnt be held responsible for any delays that may occur during the 
process, shed therefore absolved TFP of any blame for a decrease in the CETV. I dont 
think its as simple as that though and thats because the Regulator has clearly set out in 
COBS 2.1.2R, that a firm must not seek to exclude or restrict; or rely on any exclusion or 
restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client under the regulatory system. So, 
that means TFP couldnt limit their obligation to act with due care, skill diligence and treat the 
consumer fairly under PRIN 2 and PRIN 6 by asking Miss M to sign that disclaimer. Whilst 
TFP is well within its rights to warn consumers that they might miss their CETV deadline and 
that they cant guarantee anything, that caveat doesnt mean that they arent required to 
abide by the Regulators Principles. So, whilst TFP cant be held liable for the delays of 
others, they were responsible for the consumer journey and, as Ive already explained, Im of 
the view that the reduced CETV is a direct consequence of TFPs failure to submit an advice 
confirmation letter to the DB administrator.
The list below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the 
time of TFPs advice to Miss M but provides useful context for my assessment of TFPs 
actions here:
PRIN 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
And Im of the view that those rules override any disclaimer that TFP believe absolves them 
of liability.Summary
So, it seems clear to me that were it not for the actions of TFP, Miss M would have secured 
the original, higher CETV value. And thats because, as Ive already set out, TFP failed to 
submit the advice confirmation letter with the original transfer application, which they ought 
reasonably to have known was a requirement of the scheme trustees. It seems that there 
were delays in TFP issuing their suitability letter and they also could have submitted the 
transfer documents to the DB administrator sooner than they did, and had they done, the 
mistake wouldve likely been spotted sooner than it was. Finally, they then failed to obtain 
definitive confirmation from the DB administrator that all of the required documents had been 
submitted. 
With all of this in mind, I think that TFP fell short of what I would expect and its failures have 
resulted in Miss M missing her CETV expiry date. Im therefore upholding Miss Ms 
complaint and require TFP to put things right for her in the manner that Ive set out below.
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision, Miss M responded, explaining that she had nothing 
further to add. However, she did provide a copy of a letter that she had recently received 
from the trustees of the DB scheme (dated 15 December 2023) in response to her complaint 
about the DB scheme administrator that shed submitted to them in August 2023. Their 
response was the outcome of the second and final stage of the DB schemes Internal 
Dispute Resolution Procedure (IDRP). 
In summary, Miss M had said in her August 2023 letter to the trustees, that the DB 
administrator had confirmed to her IFA that they had received all of the necessary paperwork 
to complete the transfer, so they should honour the original CETV. In addition, Miss M also 
said to them that she didnt believe the DB administrator had dealt with her transfer with due 
care and diligence. In addition, she also set out that given the CETV paperwork stated that 
the DB administrator would check the returned documentation, that they should have 
identified the confirmation of advice letter was missing and informed her IFA sooner.
After considering Miss Ms complaint, the schemes trustees explained that they werent 
upholding her concerns. They explained that the onus was on the IFA to ensure that the DB 
administrator had submitted all of the necessary documents ahead of the deadline and that 
having considered the call between the IFA and the scheme administrator, they didnt 
believe that conclusive confirmation had been provided, despite what that IFA claimed. Miss 
M provided TFP with a copy of the IDRP complaint outcome on 15 December 2023.
In response to the provisional decision, TFP replied, saying that they didnt agree with the 
outcome, and thats for a number of reasons. They said, in summary:
The trustees of the DB scheme provided assurances which TFP ought reasonably to 
have been relied upon in the course of their business.
The consumer signed a disclaimer within TFPs terms and conditions, confirming that 
she understood that there were no guarantees about the transfer value. TFP went on to 
say that they should be able to rely upon this and, if they couldnt, it presented a serious 
floodgates concern for all businesses such as theirs.
Miss M is pursuing a complaint with the Pensions Regulator about the scheme/DB 
administrator. TFP say that making a final decision on this issue without having regard to 
the outcome of that complaint is fundamentally flawed.Finally, TFP say the directions given on how to calculate the redress are flawed because 
theyre based on figures which the trustees have failed to explain. TFP felt that they 
ought to be entitled to clarification from the pension trustees about how the CETV had 
been calculated, but their repeated requests for disclosure from them had been refused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TFP say the trustees of the DB scheme provided assurances to them which they ought 
reasonably to have been able to rely upon in the course of their business. Ive looked again 
at the call transcript that TFP had with the DB administrator on 14 June 2022, where they 
telephoned to check that all of the necessary paperwork had been uploaded. Im still not 
persuaded that the DB administrator gave TFP the confirmation they needed that all of the 
paperwork had been received. Whilst the DB administrator call handler initially intimated that 
they had all of the paperwork, they also stated twice that they would need to check with the 
relevant team that this was the case. Unfortunately, at that point, the call then disconnected 
and TFP didnt telephone them back to secure definitive confirmation. So, I dont believe that 
telephone call does provide the assurance that TFP says it does because the DB 
administrator didnt speak to the relevant team and give TFP positive affirmation that they 
were in receipt of all of the necessary papers. 
TFP say that as Miss M signed a disclaimer within their terms and conditions, confirming that 
she understood there were no guarantees about the transfer value, they should be able to 
rely upon this and, if they couldnt, it presented a serious floodgates concern for all 
businesses such as theirs. Miss M digitally signed TFPs client agreement titled  Our 
services and costs for the review of defined benefit (DB) pension schemes on 25 February 
2022. The agreement stated, in summary, that whilst TFP would make every effort to 
complete the work within the guarantee period, they were unable to guarantee that they 
would be able to do so. The agreement also explained that if they couldnt and if a new 
CETV is required, it could be less than the previous transfer value offered. 
However, as Ive already explained in my provisional decision, I dont think that agreement 
absolves TFP of their responsibility to act with due skill, care and diligence. And thats 
because the Regulator has clearly set out in COBS 2.1.2R, that a firm must not seek to 
exclude or restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to 
the client under the regulatory system. In any event, Im of the view that the reason why a 
new CETV had to be requested was because of TFPs actions, rather than anyone elses. 
Had TFP submitted the mandatory advice confirmation to the DB administrator when they 
sent the other paperwork in, Miss M wouldnt have found herself in the position she was in. 
Therefore, I dont think its fair or reasonable that TFPs disclaimer can be used to transfer 
responsibility for their mistake on to Miss M. 
TFP have said that Miss M is pursuing a complaint with the Pensions Regulator about the 
scheme/DB administrator and say that making a final decision on this issue without having 
regard to the outcome of that complaint is fundamentally flawed. However, at the point that 
TFP sent their feedback into this service about the provisional decision, Miss M was still 
waiting to hear back from the trustees about her IDRP complaint, before reaching a decision 
on whether to escalate her concerns to the next stage in the schemes process (which would 
mean submitting her case to the Pensions Ombudsman). Having now received the outcome 
of the trustees investigation, Miss M has shared that response with TFP. However, as I 
explained earlier, this complaint is about the actions of TFP, rather than the DB scheme administrator and as such, Im satisfied that I dont need to pause issuing this outcome 
before Miss M makes a decision on whether to escalate her complaint about the DB 
administrator to the Pension Schemes Ombudsman.
TFP say the directions given on how to calculate the redress are flawed because theyre 
based on figures which the trustees have failed to explain. TFP felt that they ought to be 
entitled to clarification from the pension trustees about how the CETV had been calculated, 
but their repeated requests for disclosure from them had been refused. Theres a reason 
why the lump sum offered in the CETV is only valid for 90 days. Thats because in reaching 
that figure, the trustees have had to use a number of assumptions about, amongst other 
things, interest rates, investment returns, scheme liabilities and longevity, which all have a 
bearing on the lump sum offered. And, all of those factors regularly change, so the lump 
sums tabled by trustees alter to reflect that. But, Im not persuaded that TFP having sight of 
the assumptions that the trustees have used in determining the CETV would have a bearing 
on the outcome of this case. Its up to the scheme and their actuaries to determine the CETV 
that theyre willing to provide to the member in lieu of giving up their rights in the scheme. 
The member doesnt have to accept the CETV if theyre unhappy with whats offered; they 
can always wait and see if the CETV increases in the future, but of course, theres no 
guarantee that it will and that it wont go down further. I cant force the scheme to provide the 
level of detail that TFP want, but in any event, its not the role of this service to validate or 
question how trustees have reached the level of CETV offered.
TFP say that the provisional decision focuses on one issue (the advice confirmation letter) 
without taking heed of what are the true causes of Miss Ms loss, which was as a result of 
the DB administrators failure to action the transaction in a timely manner or confirm to them 
that the letter was missing. However, I dont agree with TFPs contention and thats because, 
having looked at the timeline again, I think its TFP who failed to manage the timeline as 
effectively as they could have done. There were avoidable delays in the advice journey, such 
as the time it took TFP to issue a suitability letter after the abridged advice process and the 
time it took TFP to submit the application papers to the DB administrator, after meeting with 
Miss M. I think that, had TFP managed the customer journey more tightly, its more likely 
than not that the paperwork wouldve been submitted to the DB administrator earlier, 
therefore resulting in the error surfacing before the CETV expired, allowing the mistake to be 
corrected. 
Ive considered TFPs further submissions very carefully, and having looked at what theyve 
said, TFP have not submitted anything new thats made me change my mind. So, it therefore 
follows that I am upholding Miss Ms complaint for the reasons that Ive set out above and I 
require TFP to take the following actions to put things right for her:
Putting things right
My decision is that TFP should put Miss M back into the position that she would have been 
in had it not been for their mistake. That means they must undertake a loss calculation to 
determine the impact that the reduced CETV has had on her SIPP, along with any 
investment growth that she would have benefited from.
TFP needs to compare the original CETV (that was guaranteed until 24 June 2022) plus the 
investment returns that Miss M would have made, had the monies been invested from 25 
July 2022 (using Vitality and then Aviva as the benchmark), with the position that Miss M 
actually found herself in, and then they should pay the difference as compensation. 
Fair compensationIn assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Miss M as close as is 
possible to the position that she would probably now be in, had the transfer been undertaken 
when it should have. It is not possible to say precisely what date the transfer would have 
taken place had it not been for TFPs mistake, but Im satisfied that what I have set out 
below is most likely, and therefore is fair and reasonable given Miss Ms circumstances and 
objectives when she invested.
TFP should compare the difference between the CETV that Miss M was originally offered 
(with the expiry date of 24 June 2022), to what was eventually transferred.
Ive looked closely at the DB administrators transfer guidance  it states that they ordinarily 
take two weeks to undertake their administration process and then 80% of transfers are 
completed three weeks after that, and a further week is added for the payment to be 
undertaken. So, had TFP submitted all of the required documentation when they should 
have, its reasonable to conclude that, based on the DB administrators guidance, the funds 
would have been transferred on 25 July 2022 at the latest, and that it would have been the 
original CETV that got transferred. Therefore, TFP needs to:
Compare the performance of Miss M's SIPP with the notional value if those monies had 
transferred when they should have. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, 
no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there 
is a loss and compensation is payable.
TFP should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, TFP should pay into Miss M's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If TFP is unable to pay the compensation into Miss M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount directly to her. But, had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income  therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure that the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax 
to HMRC, so Miss M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Miss 
M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, if Miss M would have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an 
overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TFP deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss M how much has been taken off. TFP should give Miss M a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Vitality 
SIPPClosed - 
transferred Vitalityinvest 
Risk Optimiser 5 25 July 20225 January 
2023* 8% simple to a new 
Aviva SIPPFund Series F
Aviva 
SIPP**OpenAviva funds 
from start date 
***6 January 
2023Date of my 
final 
decisionper year if 
TFP have not 
paid any 
redress due 
within 30 
days of the 
consumer 
accepting the 
final decision
* New Aviva SIPP was opened on 6 January 2023.
** The consumer switched their pension away from Vitality on 6 January 2023 to Aviva. 
Therefore, the loss Miss M has suffered needs to be calculated across both plans. 
*** Miss M stated on 24 November 2023 that she is invested in the VT AJ Bell Moderately 
Adventurous Acc, however, she should provide evidence of this to TFP to allow them to 
undertake their calculations. 
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional value
This is the value of Miss M's investment had it been invested at the correct time until the 
end date. TFP should calculate this value.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be 
deducted from the notional value calculation at the point that it was actually paid, so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number 
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if TFP totals all of those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because, had TFP submitted the advice 
confirmation letter when they should have, Miss M would have benefited from the higher 
transfer amount and therefore, this will place her as closely back into the same position that 
she wouldve been in, had it not been for TFPs delays.
Trouble and upset
TFP should also pay Miss M £300 for the distress and inconvenience that theyve caused 
her by not submitting her transfer application in a timely manner.
Refund of any additional charges
In upholding Miss Ms complaint, I also need to take account of any additional costs that she 
incurred as a consequence of TFPs actions. Therefore, if the DB administrator charged Miss 
M for the new CETV that they issued on 2 September 2022, TFP should also refund that 
charge to her. TFP should also add 8% simple interest per annum from the point that she 
paid any charge to the date of settlement.My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ms complaint and as such, I require Tailored Financial Planning Limited 
to put things right for her in the manner that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 January 2024.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman