DRN-4408450
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aviva Insurance Limited rejected a claim on his musical instrument 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr F is a member of an orchestra and holds the position of treasurer for the orchestra. Hes 
explained that one of his duties is to ensure that the equipment owned by the orchestra is 
covered by Insurance. He took out an insurance policy for music equipment, which is 
underwritten by Aviva.
After one of the orchestra members sadly died, Mr F became aware that one of the pieces of 
equipment which had been kept by that member was missing so he made a claim on the 
policy, but Aviva rejected the claim. 
Aviva initially relied on a specific exclusion in the policy but later said this type of claim 
simply wasnt covered.
When Mr F referred the complaint to this Service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said the policy only covers items owned by Mr F and he didnt own this item  the 
orchestra did. He also said that even if the item would otherwise be covered, there was an 
exclusion that applied to the claim.
Mr F has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. Information about the 
insurance needs to be clear, fair and not misleading.
The policy provides cover for Music Equipment owned by You that has been stolen, lost, or 
sustained accidental damage.
You is defined as The insured person/persons or group named on the Insurance 
Schedule
The person name on the Schedule is Mr F. So hes the policyholder and any reference in the 
policy terms to You means Mr F. This means the policy covers music equipment that 
belongs to Mr F; it doesnt cover items that belong to someone else.
The receipt for the equipment is made out to the name of the orchestra, and Mr F has 
confirmed in correspondence that The equipment is owned by [the orchestra] not me 
personally.
The policy doesnt cover equipment that doesnt belong to Mr F so this claim is not covered.
Even if the policy did cover this item, theres an exclusion for Theft, loss or damage to Music 
Equipment whilst hired out or loaned by You to any other person unless You are in 
attendance
Since the item had been left in the care of the other orchestra member I think this exclusion 
would likely apply. But in any event, I dont think the item was covered in the first place, for 
the reasons given above.
I appreciate this is very disappointing for Mr F. He says he took out the policy on behalf of 
the orchestra and expected it to cover the claim. No insurance policy covers every 
eventuality that may arise; there will always be terms and conditions that limit whats covered 
and Mr F had the policy documents, which say whats covered.
Ive considered his comments about the policy wording but Ive set out the relevant terms 
and I think they are clear. He says Aviva never stipulated any requirements, for example for 
safe storage. The definitions in the policy include a definition for the policyholders home. 
And the What is not covered section explains that claims wont be covered unless the 
relevant arrangements for storage (either at home or away from the home) are met. But in 
any event, the policy simply doesnt cover items that dont belong to Mr F. 
Taking all of this into account Im satisfied Avivas decision is in line with the policy terms and 
is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman