DRN-3168165
The complaint
Mr C and Mr Hs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to an error with a 
CHAPS payment they made to redeem their mortgage with Barclays, and the subsequent 
service they received from Barclays.
What happened
Mr C and Mr H redeemed their mortgage in May 2021 by making a payment through CHAPS 
system from a third-party bank. Barclays initially said they were unable to locate the payment 
and as such it wasnt applied to Mr C and Mr Hs mortgage account on the day of payment, 
although after a period of eight days it was then located. 
Barclays explained to Mr C and Mr H that they had experienced a system error on the day 
the payment was made which meant they although Barclays had received it they were 
unable to apply it to their account. When Barclays did manage to locate the payment, it was 
backdated to the date of actual receipt putting Mr C and Mr Hs account into the position it 
would have been in had there been no delay.
 
Mr C and Mr H said the period during which Barclays were unable to locate the payment 
caused them extreme stress as they thought they had lost their life savings and it has also 
led to them spending a lot of time trying to resolve the problem with Barclays.
In particular, Mr C spent a long time on a webchat facility with a Barclays advisor. During 
that chat the advisor noted Mr C made some very serious comments leading the advisor to 
becoming concerned for Mr Cs health and safety. The advisor said he was going to refer Mr 
C to a colleague who would be calling him on the telephone although Mr C said there was no 
point in making the call as he wouldnt answer it. The advisor explained that nevertheless he 
would have to follow the matter up given the severity of Mr Cs comments, as Barclays owed 
him a duty of care. As a result, Barclays notified the emergency services who made a 
welfare visit to Mr Cs home, which Mr C said caused him further upset.
Following Mr C and Mr Hs complaint Barclays issued a final response letter which 
apologised for the error made and confirmed that the payment had been successfully 
received and applied to their account. The letter also set out that there had been an 
overpayment which was going to be refunded to the account from which it had originated. In 
recognition of the errors made Barclays offered Mr C and Mr H £300 in compensation, which 
they didnt accept. 
Mr C and Mr H were unhappy with Barclays final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that the amount of 
compensation Barclays offered was enough to put things right. Mr C and Mr H didnt agree 
and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Mr H have set out what they seek by way of resolution to their complaint. 
Send us a final statement to show the balance has been paid 
Send us the promised letter regarding no further claim on the property and access method to 
the deeds 
A refund of the overpayment 
An explanation as to why they informed us that First Direct had paid the funds to the wrong 
account when this clearly wasn't the case 
An explanation as to why the above has still not been received. 
A realistic level of financial compensation to reflect the considerable emotional duress and 
loss of reputation 
On 10 June 2021 Barclays wrote to Mr C and Mr H confirming that their mortgage account 
had been cleared. This is sufficient in my view to show that the mortgage account had been 
redeemed.
Barclays advised Mr C and Mr H that the way to obtain any Deeds to their property is to 
contact the Land Registry. I can confirm that the Land Registry will hold all relevant 
documentation relating to the title to their property. It is implicit from the 10 June letter that 
there can be no further claim on the property in so far as Barclays mortgage is concerned.
The FRL did suggest there had been an overpayment but in reality this was a mistake 
arising from unprocessed transactions. I am satisfied that this is the most likely explanation 
for why Mr C and Mr H were advised there had been an overpayment. This does however 
represent poor service.
Whilst I accept it is likely that Mr C and Mr H were told that their payment had not been 
received, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest they were told that it was the third party 
bank who had paid the funds into the wrong account. Ive seen evidence which shows that 
Barclays said they hadnt received the funds, and hence undertook the investigation to find 
out where they were. Barclays webchat transcript and internal notes shows that they did 
investigate the matter as soon as they were made aware of the problem. An explanation has 
been provided to Mr C and Mr H and I am satisfied that this explanation is correct  namely 
funds were received but due to an internal systems error Barclays had been unable to 
attribute the payment to their account for a period of eight days.
I know Mr C is unhappy that Barclays notified emergency services of their concerns, and I 
can appreciate that the sight of such services outside of his home would have been 
upsetting, but having read the webchat and the comments made by Mr C I think the action 
taken by the advisor was correct and proportionate. I have deliberately not set out what was 
said for reasons of confidentiality and respect for Mr Cs privacy. It follows that I dont think 
Barclays did anything wrong in passing on Mr Cs details for a welfare check, and I dont 
think they did anything wrong in trying to contact him by phone for the same reasons. 
I know Mr C and Mr H dont think that the offer of £300 is sufficient and have explained how 
they feel they have been impacted by this matter. Ive given this some further thought and in 
doing so considered a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and 
inconvenience that may have been caused. This service categorises awards and examples 
of these can be found on our website. What is important to remember is that there is no set 
figure, since the facts of each case are different. Ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the case and coming to a figure which feels fair and 
reasonable, when set against the effect upon the complainant of any particular service 
failures. 
Ive taken account of the fact that there were eight days of uncertainty for Mr C and Mr H, but 
balanced against that they had a CHAPS payment reference number from the paying third 
party bank which meant it was more than likely that the funds were not going to be 
completely lost to them. Ive taken account of the impact of the emergency services being 
called to Mr Cs home, but when I balance that against the comments he made to Barclays 
advisor, I am of the view that the advisor acted correctly. I am sorry to hear this caused 
further distress for Mr C but the alternative of not notifying the emergency services was to 
my mind unacceptable.
So, having weighed up all the evidence, I think the offer made by Barclays of £300 is a fair 
and reasonable recompense for effect of the service failures upon Mr C and Mr H. So, 
although Mr C and Mr H will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst Barclays 
did make an error, I cant say Barclays has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Following our investigators view Mr C and Mr H raised a further issue that they could not 
see that Barclays had taken any remedial action. That is a fair point to raise, to a degree, but 
I am satisfied that having been made aware of the nature of the error in so far as it relates to 
Mr C and Mr H, Barclays have addressed it. Beyond that any concerns about business 
process would need to be raised with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They take a 
principles-based approach to conduct regulation, letting businesses choose how they 
incorporate those principles into the way they deal with customers. Its not our role to 
recommend how financial businesses should conduct or arrange their commercial 
operations and processes  thats for them to determine. We dont have the power to make 
rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they change their policy or procedures. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay Mr C and Mr H £300 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that it should pay 
Mr C and Mr H £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman