DRN-4276572
The complaint
Mr S complains that the Co-operative Bank Plc refused to remove his name from a joint 
account without the other account holders consent, and refused to freeze the account.
What happened
Mr S agreed in early 2022 to be a joint account holder for a person that he had known for 
over ten years, after they moved abroad, to enable the transfer of property funds and the 
clearing of utility and other charges. In November 2022 the person accused him of stealing 
£5,000 through a cheque. He decided to remove his name and address from the account. 
He also became aware that the person was carrying out transactions that are illegal in the 
country where she is now living. 
He asked the Co-Op Bank to remove his name from the account, but it explained that both 
joint account holders needed to sign the relevant form. In its final response letter of 
3 April 2023, it explained that and also advised that it doesnt offer a freezing account option. 
It recognised that because of the time taken to investigate Mr Ss complaint, the service it 
provided was not of its required standard and offered £25 for the distress and 
inconvenience.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Adjudicator said that Co-op Bank had 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account in requiring both account 
holders to consent to the removal of Mr Ss name from the account. So he wouldn't be 
asking Co-op Bank to do anything more.
Mr S was not happy and provided a full statement setting out in particular that he had been 
subject to abusive controlling behaviour by the other joint account holder.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S asked Co-op Bank to transfer the joint account into the other account holders sole 
name and to freeze the account. In accordance with the terms and conditions of its accounts 
both account holders of a joint account are required to consent to one name being removed 
from that account. This applies even in the case of divorcing couples. This is the standard 
practice of banks and financial institutions and I cant ask the Co-op Bank to change its 
practice. Nor can I tell it to freeze the account as it does not provide this service. Im really 
sorry if Mr S feels he has been treated badly but I'm afraid that if he wants his name to be 
removed from the account, and the other person doesnt consent, he might have to take 
legal action, and he should seek advice in that respect.
Mr S has provided a statement which provides more details of the reason why the joint 
account was set up and why he now wants to have his name removed. I've noted that he 
refers to coercive and controlling behaviour by the other account holder. As far as I can see 
those details have not been shared with Co-op Bank, so I can't criticise it for not taking them 
into account when dealing with Mr Ss complaint. I have checked, and Co-op Bank does 
have procedures for dealing with people who've suffered from economic and/or financial 
abuse. So he might want to raise all the points in his statement with Co-op Bank. I can't say 
that it would be able to take the action he believes it should, but it might be able to point him 
to other steps he could take.
There are also outside organisations who can help people suffering from economic and/or 
financial abuse. I can't set them out here but if Mr S wants details of those, he can ask our 
Adjudicator.
I've noted that Co-op Bank offered to credit Mr Ss account with £25 for the delay in 
investigating his complaint. I think that was appropriate. I'm not clear if it has already 
credited the account but if it hasnt, and he wants a different account to be credited, or a 
cheque then he should ask Co-op Bank to provide the compensation in that way.
My final decision
The Cooperative Bank Plc has already agreed to pay Mr S £25 compensation.
So my decision is that The Cooperative Bank Plc, if it hasnt already done so, should pay 
Mr S £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman