DRN-3789188
The complaint
Mr P complains about the start date on his insurance policy document with Domestic & 
General Insurance Plc (D&G).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr P has had the same issue with the acceptance date printing on his policy 
document instead of the start date for the last three years.
It was explained on the call with the D&G advisor on 16 November 2021 that it was a 
known issue, and it cant be fixed. Mr P was reassured of the correct start date and 
the advisor told Mr P that it was showing correctly at the business end and that the 
call was also recorded for his piece of mind. Mr P has confirmed that it also shows 
correctly when he logs on to his online account.
Mr P decided to go ahead with the policy knowing the document would have the 
acceptance date. At this point Mr P couldve taken cover elsewhere as his policy 
hadnt started. 
Mr P has suffered no detriment due to the issue that Im aware of. Mr P was notified 
of the issue from the start of the policy and the correct cover is in place. Mr P raised it 
himself with the sales advisor, so Im also satisfied he was aware of it before the call. 
D&G have said its been unable to find a fix to the issue, and it will produce 
documents like this moving forwards. This leaves our service unable to instruct any 
change in these circumstances. 
Our service can look at whether Mr P has been treated unfairly, but Im not convinced 
he has been. D&G have been clear about the issue from the start and that there is no 
detriment to Mr P because of it.
Mr P has said that he was only aware his policy started on 9 December 2021 due to 
writing to the business. Ive considered this point carefully but having listened to the 
call when he took the cover, it is clear he is aware of the cover start date. Mr P also 
called to renew cover, so he was aware of the date the last policy ended.  
If Mr P has concerns about someone else being unaware of the correct start date 
from reading the policy document, Id suggest making a manual note to advise of the 
discrepancy or a note to call the business if they have any concerns. 
In summary Mr P knew there was an issue with the printing of the policy document before he 
took the cover. He agreed to go ahead with it on these terms. On that basis, I havent found 
the business have done anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman