DRN-3758523
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy with the communications he received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited in relation to a claim he made on his employers group income protection scheme. 
What happened
Mr V was a beneficiary of his employers group income protection scheme. He became 
absent from work in 2020. 
In 2021, following the deferred period, he claimed on the policy because he said he wasnt 
well enough to work. He explained that he was clinically vulnerable to Covid-19 due to a 
pre-existing medical condition and hed also had a serious reaction to his first Covid-19 
vaccination.  
Aviva declined the claim on the basis that Mr V didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity. 
Mr V complained to Aviva, but they maintained their decision to decline the claim. He also 
raised concerns about some of the information and comments Aviva made, particularly those 
which he felt were encouraging him to return to work when it wasnt safe to do so. Mr V 
complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought it was reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim. And she didnt think Aviva had 
intended to give Mr V advice. She thought Aviva had been trying to explain their rationale to 
Mr V. 
Mr V said that whilst he didnt entirely agree with the decision to decline the claim but was 
willing to concede this part of his complaint. He said he wanted to focus on Avivas conduct 
in communicating with him. 
In summary, he felt hed been told that his pre-existing condition didnt put him at greater risk 
of contracting Covid-19 and it wasnt the place of an insurer to dispute medical advice or 
lecture a person on risk. Mr V explained that it had a devastating impact on his mental health 
and he was worried others would be placed at risk if Avivas behaviour didnt change. So, I 
need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Vs complaint now focuses upon the communication he received from Aviva in relation to 
his claim. So, my decision will focus on this aspect of his complaint and what I think are the 
relevant key issues. 
Im very sorry to see the circumstances surrounding Mr Vs complaint. I dont doubt that its 
been a very difficult time for him for a number of reasons including his health, the wider 
circumstances surrounding the pandemic and some of the issues the pandemic presented in 
relation to his job role. Ive also taken into account what Mr V has said about feeling 
vulnerable and the impact of the pandemic on his mental health. 
However, Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint because: 
I dont agree Aviva told Mr V to ignore the advice of his doctor or that the tone of their 
emails reflect an attempt to cajole or bully Mr V back to work. Ultimately, it wasnt for 
Aviva to resolve the issue of how Mr Vs employer kept Mr V safe at work including 
the updated government guidance, his concerns about his working environment and 
how his workplace routine would be affected by his medical conditions. Aviva 
encouraged Mr V to discuss his concerns with his employer, which I think was 
reasonable. Thats because it would be the employers responsibility to address any 
concerns about workplace adjustments or safety.   
I think Aviva dealt with Mr Vs queries and concerns about his claim being declined in 
a reasonable way. In response to his queries about the claim being declined they 
said that government guidance to shield had ended and highlighted some of the 
steps Mr Vs employer had taken to protect staff. They also reiterated that they were 
considering his ability to perform the generic duties of his insured occupation and not 
the availability of a suitable role. I think that was reasonable and I dont think they 
were saying Mr V should ignore medical advice. 
Aviva did say to Mr V that a diagnosis of diabetes had not been given and hed not 
been given prescribed medication for it. But I dont think that comment can be fairly 
viewed in isolation, bearing in mind the overall correspondence from Aviva. The 
circumstances surrounding Mr Vs diabetes were somewhat unusual  thats 
recognised within the correspondence from the consultant. I think the wider details of 
the diagnosis, and the circumstances surrounding it, are fairly reflected within the 
overall chain of correspondence between Mr V and Aviva. 
Aviva referred to a statement made by a third-party organisation. This related to 
Mr Vs pre-existing condition which hed had since childhood. Mr V says the 
statement from the organisation was made in the early days of the pandemic and 
that more recent evidence suggested there was a greater risk of hospitalisation and 
mortality in patients with his medical condition. However, I dont think it was 
unreasonable to cite the general guidance of the third-party organisation. And I dont 
think the information Aviva referred to represented an instruction by Aviva to ignore 
medical advice or an attempt to persuade Mr V back to work. 
In their final response letter Aviva said to Mr V that the policy didnt cover shielding or 
staying away from work because a medical condition placed him at greater risk of 
catching Covid-19. I think thats factually correct. As Ive outlined above the policy is 
designed to cover incapacity through ill health and I dont think it was Avivas 
responsibility to decide how best to keep Mr V safe at work. I think Aviva reasonably 
concluded that was a matter between Mr V and his employer.  
Mr Vs employer was the policyholder. So, in line with usual industry practice, Aviva 
notified the policyholder that the claim had been declined. I note that Aviva also 
highlighted to Mr Vs employer that hed benefit from discussions about his concerns 
around health and safety and his return to the workplace.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman