DRN-3160708
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to decline his claim.
What happened
Mr R had a worldwide travel insurance policy with UKI. In January 2020, he booked a flight 
to visit his wife and daughter on 19 March  30 April. The UK Government announced a 
national lockdown two days prior to Mr Rs intended flight date on 17 March. This advised 
against all but essential travel. 
Mr R continued with his plans and took the flight. Unfortunately, he was unable to return to 
the UK because his flights were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr R said that he 
also became unwell whilst he was abroad and couldnt return home until 1 November 2020. 
He would like for UKI to pay his claim for the associated new flight costs, which was £430. 
UKI said it declined his claim because Mr R travelled knowing that he was breaching UK 
government guidance as travelling for the reasons he did were not deemed essential. It also 
highlighted an exclusion in the policy about anticipated events and said that any costs 
arising from this would not be covered. 
Our investigator said that UKI had declined Mr Rs claim fairly. She acknowledged that whilst 
on a personal level, she could understand why he wanted to travel to see his family, its not 
considered essential in the wider context of the background to this complaint. She also 
recognised Mr Rs comments about his cerebral palsy and that this was the reason he had to 
stay abroad for as long as he did. But she didnt think this made a difference to the outcome 
of her investigation because shed not seen any evidence hed shared this with UKI prior to 
bringing his complaint to this service. Our investigator suggested that Mr R bring a separate 
complaint about that to UKI as its not something shes considered here. 
Mr R disagreed with her findings. He maintained his position about the travel abroad being 
essential. He highlighted that his wife and daughter both live outside of the UK and so it was 
essential that he travel to be with them on their respective birthdays. He also said that UKI 
was aware of his poor health when he made his claim and that even if that werent the case, 
it should be considered now as part of this complaint. And so, its for me to make a final 
decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator. I should say that although I thoroughly understand Mr 
Rs arguments about wanting to be with his family on such a special occasion, it still doesnt 
meet the threshold of essential travel. And therefore, theres no cover available under his 
policy. Ill explain why.
I think its important to keep in mind that from March 2020, the world was beginning to feel 
the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Many families across the UK were having to make 
increasingly difficult decisions about whether to see each other and celebrate special 
occasions in the usual way. And so, I understand the choice Mr R had to make. The UK 
government had put the country on lockdown, but Mr R chose to take his flight to visit his 
family. Therefore, I think UKIs argument about anticipated events is reasonable in the 
circumstances. To be clear, the exclusion says;
You are not covered for We wont pay for: 8. These specific exclusions (see page 18
for full explanations): 2 Anticipated events.
It further defined anticipated events as;
Anticipated event: Any event that you knew would happen or could reasonably have 
expected to happen at the time you became an insured person, the date when you booked 
your trip or when buying an upgrade, whichever is later. 
Given the wider circumstances that were unfolding in the UK and around the world, I think 
Mr R took his flight knowing, or ought reasonably to have known, there could have been 
risks associated with his return to the UK. I say that because two days prior to taking his 
flight, the UK was in the grips of a nationwide lockdown. And therefore, Im satisfied with 
UKIs classification that this wasnt an unknown event  which means theres no cover 
available in the circumstances. 
I wanted to acknowledge Mr Rs comments about his health and the impact this had on 
being able to return to the UK in good time. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont 
consider them material to the outcome of this complaint. I say that because theres still no 
cover in the circumstances as the anticipated events exclusion would still be a prominent 
and persuasive argument for declining the claim.   
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman