DRN-3095375
The complaint
Mr E complains that Zenith Insurance plc mishandled a claim on his motorcycle insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Zenith or the insurer, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold 
Zenith responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr E had a scooter and a van. For the year from July 2020, he had the scooter insured 
(through an intermediary) with Zenith. 
On 18 December 2020, he had left his scooter in a parking bay near his van and his home. 
He reported to police and to his insurer that hed seen someone riding his scooter away 
without his consent.
On 10 January 2021, Mr E got his scooter back in a damaged condition. The insurer 
arranged an inspection. It said the scooter was damaged beyond economic repair.
The insurer wrote a letter dated 21 January 2021. It declined Mr Es claim as there was a 
policy term that the scooter was only covered for theft while parked near his home if it had 
been in a garage. The letter gave Mr E 14 days to arrange collection of his damaged 
scooter, after which it would be disposed of.
Mr E says he didnt receive that letter. He didnt contact Zenith within 14 days. So it disposed 
of his damaged scooter. 
On 4 March 2021, Mr E contacted Zenith asking for an update. He complained to his insurer 
that he hadnt received the letter or any other communication that it had turned down his 
claim and proposed to scrap his scooter. He said Zenith shouldnt have scrapped it and 
should meet his claim. The insurer offered to pay him the salvage value of the damaged 
scooter. 
By a final response dated late April 2021, the insurer turned down the complaint. It sent a 
cheque for £322.24 salvage value. On 24 May 2021, Mr E returned the cheque. He brought 
his complaint to us at that time. He added that Zenith should refund some of his premium.
Our investigator said that he was unable to consider the complaint about refunding premium. 
He didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld in its other aspects. He thought 
that the policy term was clear and not misleading. He couldnt say that the insurer was 
required to do anything more to communicate with Mr E.
Mr E disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He didnt receive the letter. The insurer shouldve done more to contact him.
He wanted his scooter back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded that Mr E had claimed a premium refund or made a complaint to Zenith 
about that at the time that it wrote its final response. So I dont consider that I can or that I 
should deal with that aspect of his complaint in this final decision. 
Ive seen a statement of fact recording information in July 2020. That included the following 
question:
Will the vehicle(s) be kept in a locked garage or out building over night?
And that implied that the scooter only had to be kept in a locked building overnight.
But the Insurance Product Information Document included the following:
Are there any restrictions on cover?

! Cover is restricted as shown on your policy schedule

! Where you have stated your motorcycle is garaged, please refer to your policy 
schedule for any special terms. 
And the policy schedule included the following endorsement:
R6 Garaging
While your motorcycle is parked at or in the proximity of:
 Your private dwelling house, or
 Any other address where the motorcycle is usually kept if this alternative address has
been specifically agreed by us.
Cover for theft or attempted theft is restricted to loss or damage occurring while your 
motorcycle is in a locked private garage or outbuilding.
So I find it clear that the scooter had to be kept in a locked building not only at night but 
whenever it was parked in the proximity of Mr Es home.
From what hes said, I find that Mr Es scooter was parked in a parking bay in the proximity 
of his home when the theft happened. And I dont find it likely that the theft wouldve 
happened if the scooter had been in a locked garage. So I dont find that Zenith treated Mr E 
unfairly by declining his claim.
Im satisfied that the insurer posted the letter on 21 January to Mr Es correct address. 
Nevertheless, I accept that Mr E hadnt received that letter before he contacted his insurer in 
early March. As there may have been a problem with the post, I dont hold the insurer 
responsible for Mr E not receiving the letter. Im satisfied that the insurer had done enough to 
communicate its decision on the claim.
The damaged scooter was still Mr Es property. But Im satisfied that the insurer did enough 
to give him notice of its intention to dispose of it. So I dont find that Zenith treated Mr E 
unfairly by disposing of the scooter. In any event, the insurer sent Mr E a cheque for £322.24 for the damaged scooter, and he hasnt provided enough evidence to show that the 
damaged scooter had a higher value.
Overall, I dont consider that Zenith treated Mr E unfairly. I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct the insurer to pay any more or to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Zenith Insurance plc to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman