DRN-2553168
The complaint
Mr R complains that a finance agreement he has with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says that if Mr R was given false information and if that false information 
led him to enter into a deal he would not otherwise have entered into, then I could consider 
the deal had been misrepresented and Id ask MBFS to take some further action.
Mr R says he was told the balloon payment was going to be much lower than he eventually 
noticed it was on the finance agreement. The dealership dispute Mr Rs version of events so 
Ive had to consider the evidence I have to help me decide what was most likely to have 
happened.
Having done so I think its most likely that the balloon payment that was agreed is the 
balloon payment that is listed on the hire purchase agreement. I say that because:
whilst I understand Mr R says he didnt receive a copy of this agreement, MBFS 
disagree. They say they sent a welcome pack to him in June 2016 and that the 
agreement would have been included. On balance I think it is likely Mr R would have 
asked for a copy of the agreement if he hadnt been provided with one and I am 
persuaded he knew the content of that agreement as I can see he signed important 
documents that set out the basis of it; including the balloon payment;
Mr R signed that agreement on 24 May 2016, and I think its reasonable to suggest 
that means he had read it and agreed to the figures contained in it. The balloon 
payment was clearly shown on the first page of the agreement;
Ive seen a copy of the Standard European Consumer Credit information (SECCI) 
form that was produced in relation to this agreement. It also clearly sets out the 
balloon payment on the first page of the document;
Mr R signed the Adequate Explanation document on 24 May 2016. In this document 
Mr Rs attention was drawn to the fact a balloon payment of £23,350 would be due if 
he wished to take ownership of the car at the end of the term. The copy I have seen 
is a dealership copy and theres a note at the top that explains only the customers 
signature is required. So, I dont think the lack of a signature from the dealership is 
concerning;
I think it would have been reasonably apparent that a car selling for about £50,000 
would not be worth only £10,000 at the end of its fourth year. 
Overall, I am not persuaded there is sufficient evidence that MBFS have done anything 
wrong here and Im not asking them to take any other action.
I understand that Mr R is concerned about MBFSs subsequent collection activity. Whilst 
some businesses may be prepared to halt proceedings whilst this service looks into a 
complaint, we cant insist they do so. So, it wouldnt be reasonable to say theyve done 
anything wrong.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman