DRN-3465543
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that eToro (UK) Ltd suspended his account and then closed it without his 
agreement. Hed like his account reinstated. 
What happened
Mr W had a trading account with eToro. On 22 December 2021, eToro wrote to Mr W to 
explain that, having reviewed a number of complaints he had raised with his account 
manager, it understood that its platform did not meet his expectations. It apologised for any 
confusion and frustration these issues had caused him, and said that whilst it wanted to 
address his needs, it had decided that the best course of action was to terminate the 
relationship and close the account. 
It told Mr W that it had applied a limitation to the account so that he could no longer open 
new positions or deposit new funds. And it told him that all open positions needed to be 
closed by 22 March 2022. Mr W didnt agree and complained. He received a final response 
from eToro which explained the decision again and confirmed it, so he referred his complaint 
to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint, but also didnt think eToro had done 
anything wrong. In summary, she explained that eToro was entitled under the terms and 
conditions of the account to close it. She explained that wed expect a firm to do so fairly by 
giving him sufficient notice to close his positions and mitigate any losses  and she 
considered the time period eToro gave him did that. She also thought that, whilst eToro 
didnt have to, it gave a motivation for closing the account which she found reasonable. 
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. I also dont have much to add to what the investigator has already said. 
In signing up and using eToros services, Mr W was bound by the terms and conditions of 
the account. These gave eToro the right and the discretion to terminate the account, for any 
reason with or without notice. And I should make it clear that its not for this service to tell a 
firm who it should do business with. 
As the investigator has explained, in circumstances such as these we would always expect a 
business to treat a customer fairly. This usually involves giving enough time for a customer 
to mitigate any losses or close any open positions, taking into account the size of any trades, 
the number of open trades and the size of any unrealised losses. Theres no specific time 
frame set by the regulator for this, and where the terms are silent on how long the notice 
period should be, itll be for the business to decide how much notice to give taking all the 
above into account. 
The terms dont specify that eToro needed to give Mr W a reason to close his account  but 
it chose to do this. Where it gives a reason, my role isnt necessarily to question the 
motivation it has given, but Ive taken it into account when deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
In Mr Ws case, its clear to me that he was profoundly dissatisfied with the service he was 
receiving from eToro. The investigator has set out the number of complaint tickets he had 
raised  over 60 in around 18 months. That is an exceptional level of dissatisfaction. As the 
investigator has pointed out, this complaint is about the termination of the account, and as 
such, Ive not reviewed the merits of those individual complaints. But in my view, whether or 
not each complaint has merit is not relevant here. I agree with eToro that this volume of 
complaints demonstrates that it was not able to provide a service which met Mr Ws 
expectations. So the reason it gave Mr W for closing his account is a fair one in my view. 
And it gave Mr W ample notice of this decision  because it allowed him three months to 
take any action he needed, in addition to some financial compensation. In my view three 
months was enough time for Mr W to take the action he needed to mitigate any losses and, 
where he didnt want to close a trade, it gave him enough time to find another broker and 
open an account in order to replicate that trade elsewhere. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied that in deciding to close Mr Ws account, eToro 
treated him fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman