DRN-3639947
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund £250 he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr F found company A online and so deposited £250 with it to open an account and for it to 
trade in bitcoin for him. As website took Mr F to company C to make the payment. Mr F 
was also asked to provide a large amount of personal information to A as part of this process 
and then he discovered A had tried to withdraw a large sum from his bank account. This 
transaction was blocked, so Mr F didnt lose these funds. He reported A as a scam to HSBC 
and asked it to recover the £250. HSBC wasnt able to do so and didnt uphold his complaint 
as C defended the chargeback claim HSBC raised.
Mr F brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. Mr F asked for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to set out for Mr F where the responsibility sits in his case. At the time this 
payment was made he did authorise it and want to make it. So the starting position is that he 
is responsible for this loss, not HSBC. And while HSBC could hold some responsibility in 
certain situations, its not the Police or another body, whose job it could be to investigate this 
scam as a whole. Mr F paid the £250 to C. I appreciate he was dealing with A and intended 
to pay A, but he actually paid C. So HSBC only has a banking relationship with C. No other 
money went out of Mr Fs account to this scam. So while I accept A is really behind this 
scam, HSBC didnt have any interaction with A.
Im in agreement with the investigator that this payment didnt need to trigger on HSBCs 
systems. HSBC has a duty of care and should intervene in certain situations to prevent a risk 
of fraud. But I cant say a £250 payment ought to have trigger an intervention or meant the 
bank needed to act on this duty. Banks process thousands of payments a day and they cant 
reasonably check every payment, so they need systems and processes to look out for signs 
of fraud. And I dont consider this payment had those signs, so HSBC acted fairly in 
processing it without an intervention or questioning Mr F.
As HSBC didnt have cause to stop this payment, Ive then considered whether it did all it 
could to recover the money for Mr F when he reported the fraud. And I consider it did. 
As above, HSBC doesnt have a banking relationship with A. As Mr F sent the card payment 
to C, it can only pursue a chargeback claim against C. And I can see that it did do this, and 
C defended the claim and showed that it had taken Mr Fs money and provided £250 in 
cryptocurrency (bitcoin) in exchange for it, which is the service it had contracted him for. The 
bitcoin was then sent out to A, which A confirmed receipt of to Mr F. 
C is a legitimate firm and received an instruction from Mr F. He accepts that the website for 
A took him to C to make his payment. So he did follow these steps and  while I accept 
maybe not with full appreciation of exactly what he was doing  instruct C to exchange his 
funds for bitcoin and send it to A. So C has carried out the service Mr F asked it to, which is 
why it defended the chargeback claim.
HSBC has to act within the chargeback rules, which are set by the card issuer, in this case 
VISA. These set out the grounds in which a claim can be made and the steps for taking a 
defended claim further. I dont think HSBC acted unfairly by not pursuing the claim further in 
this case. To do so it would have to provide strong, counter evidence that C had failed to do 
what Mr F paid it to, which Mr F hasnt been able to show. A is the party that has scammed 
him, and while it used C to do this, weve not seen any evidence that C was party to or 
aware of this. Ultimately C did provide Mr F with the service he paid for at the time, it 
provided bitcoin in exchange for his money and sent it to A, as he directed.
I accept that Mr f has lost out in this case and has been the victim of a scam. But I cant fairly 
say HSBC needs to cover the cost of what hes lost. It didnt miss an opportunity to prevent 
this payment and under the chargeback rules it must follow, it didnt have successful 
grounds to recover Mr Fs money from C. So Im not asking it to reimburse Mr F.
I appreciate HSBC did award Mr F £50 for how it dealt with his chargeback claim, which he 
has accepted and considers a separate matter to the £250, so I see no reason to comment 
on this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman