DRN-3085924
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs F took out the store card in 1982 but did not buy PPI at that time. It was in 1992 that 
AXA France first sold Mrs F PPI over the phone, which she later cancelled. Then AXA sold 
Mrs F PPI over the phone again in 2001.
When Mrs F complained directly to AXA, it upheld her complaint about the policy sold in 
1992 and offered full redress of £194.29 which Mrs F accepted in 2017. However, AXA did 
not uphold Mrs Fs complaint in relation to the sale of PPI in 2001. 
Our adjudicator mistakenly assessed the 1992 sale, even though AXA had already upheld 
the complaint about that sale. But he did not address the sale that took place in 2001.
I wrote a provisional decision in September 2021 in which I explained why I was not minded 
to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they 
may wish to make before I reached a final decision. No substantive responses were 
submitted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AXA has previously upheld the complaint about the 1992 sale, and Mrs F accepted the 
redress that was offered, I do not need to look at that sale now. Therefore this decision will 
only deal with the 2001 sale.
I am not upholding Mrs Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA has provided screenshots showing that Mrs F cancelled the 2001 policy within 30 days 
of taking it out. There is no evidence that Mrs F was charged any premiums.
I dont need to look further at the circumstances of how the PPI was sold to Mrs F in 2001, 
because, even if I were to decide that it had been mis-sold, Mrs F wouldnt be due any 
compensation because, as no premiums were charged, there wouldnt be anything to pay 
back to her.
In summary, having carefully considered all of the evidence available, I am not upholding 
this complaint as I have concluded that Mrs F suffered no financial loss.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman