DRN-2952567
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about a bicycle insurance policy he had with Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited. He is unhappy that Red Sands have declined to settle a claim 
for his bike following an accident in 2017.
What happened
In 2017 Mr H bought himself a new bicycle and insured it using a branded insurance policy. 
The policy insures the bike and accessories for accidental damage and theft. In addition, it 
provides public liability cover in the event Mr H was sued by a third party in relation to 
something to do with his bike and its use.
In the autumn of 2017, whilst riding in an organised event, Mr H was in an accident with a 
van. He made a claim for the damage to his bike and accessories under his policy.
Shortly after that, Mr H gave Red Sands a copy of a letter from the owner of the van, in 
which it blamed him for the accident. Mr H provided Red Sands with details of the accident 
(as far as he could remember as he was knocked unconscious during it) and his proposed 
response to the owner of the van. He asked if Red Sands objected to him sending the 
response to the owner of the van. It responded and said the letter to the owner of the van 
wouldnt affect his claim with it. It, however, set out what Mr Hs options were in relation to 
the different areas of loss hed suffered  the insured loss to his bike, uninsured loss and 
personal injury. It told him that claiming for the bike through it, would be the quickest way of 
getting it up and running again. Red Sands also said that if Mr H pursued the claim through 
the policy and it could recover its costs, it could refund any excesses paid.
Mr H confirmed to Red Sands that he wanted to proceed with the claim for the bike and 
accessories via the insurance policy. The uninsured losses and personal injury claims would 
be pursued through legal means. Red Sands acknowledged this and chased Mr H for the 
evidence it needed to be able to assess the claim. 
It doesnt appear anything happened with the claim for around a year. Mr H didnt provide 
the evidence Red Sands needed to assess the claim and nor did Red Sands chase him for 
that information or tell explain if there would be any consequences to him not providing it in a 
timely manner. 
In November 2018 Mr H contacted Red Sands and told it that his personal injury claim had 
progressed and that his solicitor had negotiated it on a shared liability basis. i.e. the 
responsibility for the accident was deemed to be shared equally between Mr H and the 
insurer of the owner of the van. Red Sands acknowledged this information and commented 
that the settlement had been reached between Mr H and the owner of the van, without its 
involvement. It said the matter had been referred to its legal department and it would come 
back to Mr H in due course. Around this time Mr H says his solicitor commented to him that 
the owner of the vans solicitors had confirmed that Red Sands had made no contact with it 
regarding the accident and potential claim.
At the end of November 2018, Red Sands wrote to Mr H and chased the information it 
needed to consider the claim. It emphasised that it needed him to respond in order to 
progress the claim and pointed out that the policy terms required him to co-operate. A full list 
of what it needed to progress the claim was detailed.
Mr H provided all the information requested by Red Sands in the middle of May 2019. Red 
Sands acknowledged receipt of the evidence. 
Mr H chased Red Sands for a response on his claim in August 2019, which doesnt appear 
to have been responded to. He then wrote to it again in September 2019 telling it that hed 
received an offer for his personal injury claim from the owner of the van. He highlighted there 
was a time limit (16 September 2019) on his acceptance of the offer, which his solicitor had 
recommended he do. He asked for comment from Red Sands as he was concerned the 
owner of the van might think him accepting the offer would close both the personal injury 
claim and that for the bike being made through the policy. Red Sands asked for a copy of the 
offer, which Mr H provided the same day. Red Sands acknowledged receipt and Mr H was 
told the matter was with its underwriters.
Mr H accepted the offer. Red Sands emailed him on 16 September 2019 and confirmed the 
commercial settlement offered to Mr H didnt engage his policy and as such it would refrain 
from making further comment on it. It went on to say that, from what it could see, the 
personal injury losses claimed for from the owner of the van were not insured under the 
policy with it, as the offer excluded the bike. Red Sands asked for confirmation that Mr H 
hadnt made a claim to the owner of the van or anyone else for the bike.
Mr H confirmed that his solicitors had only dealt with a claim for personal injury and 
uninsured losses. He confirmed the claim for the bike was always and still is with Red 
Sands and no, he hadnt claimed for it elsewhere. Mr H was told the matter was with its 
underwriters.
Red Sands declined the claim at the beginning of October 2019. It said Mr H hadnt provided 
the information it needed to progress the claim when asked. It also said that on 
19 November 2018 it had written to Mr H to say that any agreement he had privately 
reached in relation to a liability split had been agreed without its prior involvement. It said 
that it hadnt agreed or consented, at any point since the claim had been received, to the 
joint apportionment of liability with any third party. This had, it said, compromised its rights of 
recovery. As Mr H had agreed liability without consent, and due to the delays in providing the 
evidence it needed to consider the claim, it declined the claim. 
Mr H didnt accept Red Sands decision and complained. He said that hed explained to Red 
Sands how he intended to deal with the various issues that arose from his accident. Hed 
kept it up to date on what was happening. He was unhappy that at no point did it tell him that 
the apportionment of liability for the accident had to be agreed by it for his claim to be paid. 
Red Sands responded to Mr Hs complaint. It said it understood that the matter had been 
inconvenient and frustrating for Mr H, and it apologised for any delays he had experienced. 
However, it considered it had correctly interpreted the policy exclusions it had applied to 
defeat the claim. It highlighted that it had asked for information from Mr H on numerous 
occasions and the delay by him in not providing it until May 2019 compromised its ability to 
administer the claim and the contract had been frustrated over a considerable period of time. 
By the time the information to progress the claim had been received in May 2019, he had 
already agreed a 50/50 split in liability with the owner of the van. This was in breach of the 
policy conditions which existed to prevent prejudice to an insurers rights and, in this case, its 
recovery remedies and prospects of success. Red Sands also pointed out that in order to 
take out the policy Mr H had to confirm hed read and understood the policy conditions and its terms of business. As such, he should have been aware of the need not to accept any 
liability in relation to claims. Red Sands was satisfied it had done nothing wrong.
Mr H remained unhappy with Red Sands decision and asked us to consider his complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He 
initially considered that Red Sands should settle the accidental damage claim in its entirety. 
Red Sands didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It said it was entitled to decline the 
claim on the basis of the Insurer Prejudice Rule. This allows a claim to be declined where 
the prejudice has occurred to the insurer; where action(s) of the policyholder causes material 
detriment to the insurer. In the case of Mr H, it said him agreeing partial liability was the 
prejudicial event and this would cause a loss to Red Sands as it would extinguish its rights of 
recovery from the third party. It explained that it is entitled to exercise civil recovery rights 
over its insured losses. Red Sands went on to say that based on what Mr H had said about 
the accident in September 2017 it would have expected to be able to recover 100% of the 
insured losses. It asked that the investigator reconsider his conclusions.
The investigator did reconsider the complaint and he changed his recommendation for 
settlement of the complaint. He remained satisfied that Red Sands did have liability to pay 
the claim, but he accepted that Mr H agreeing to a 50/50 split of liability, had prejudiced Red 
Sands ability to recover the loss from the owner of the vans insurer. As such, he concluded 
Red Sands should reconsider the claim, but that it should only have to pay out 50% of the 
claim value to Mr H. 
Mr H accepted the investigators conclusions. He said what annoyed him the most was that 
Red Sands could have invoked their breach of contract at any point in time from 
November 2018, but it didnt do so until October 2019. He pointed out that during that period, 
he had continued to pay for what he considers a useless insurance policy. Mr H said he feels 
Red Sands had its cake and enjoyed it.
Red Sands didnt accept the investigators revised conclusions. It maintained the prejudice 
Mr H had caused it meant that the claim should be rejected completely.
Policy terms and conditions
Section 5 of the policy provides public liability cover. This provides cover for the policyholder 
in the event of claims made against them for death, accidental bodily injury, disease, loss of 
property or damage to property arising from one event  caused by You when riding any 
Bicycle Attached to the public liability cover were exclusions and specific conditions, 
which included:
5.3.1 You must not admit responsibility, offer, promise, pay or agree to pay any claim or 
negotiate with any other persons following an incident.
The general conditions section of the policy sets out:
9.3.1 You must observe and fulfil all the terms, conditions and endorsements of this policy 
otherwise We will not be liable under the policy.
Section 10 of the policy details the claim procedure and says that You must co-operate fully 
and truthfully with the Administrator and provide any information they may need.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 June 2021, in which I set out my conclusions about the 
case and my reasons for reaching those conclusions. Below is an excerpt.
Red Sands initially declined Mr Hs claim because he had admitted liability for the accident in which the damage to his bike occurred, in breach of the policy conditions. However, when 
our investigator pointed out that condition didnt apply to claims for accidental damage, it 
changed its reasons for declining the claim. It said that Mr Hs acceptance of shared liability 
for the accident had prejudiced its position in relation to recovering the claim costs from the 
owner of the vans insurer. 
Red Sands highlighted several legal cases that it felt it could rely on. Whilst I take the law 
into account when considering a complaint, I would confirm that this service is an informal 
alternative to the courts and my remit is a fair and reasonable one. As such, I dont propose 
to be drawn into a discussion about Red Sands interpretation of various court judgements. 
That said, Red Sands is right in that if the actions of a policyholder prejudices the position of 
an insurer, it is able to take that prejudice into account when deciding a claim outcome. In 
this case, Red Sands has said that the acceptance of a proposal for the accident to be 
deemed shared (50/50) liability has prejudiced its ability to pursue recovery from the owner 
of the vans insurer. 
I have considered this statement and in order to be persuaded the 50/50 liability agreement 
prejudiced Red Sands position, I would need to be persuaded it would have been able to 
recover all the costs of the claim from the owner of the vans insurer. If Red Sands had 
settled Mr Hs claim and approached the owner of the vans insurer for recovery, a 
discussion of liability would have occurred. 
As Red Sands will be aware from its motor insurance business, it is common for liability for 
accidents to be settled on a shared basis. In circumstances where the two parties to an 
accident blame each other, there are no independent witnesses or CCTV, and one party isn't 
obviously at fault (e.g. one party clearly hit the other), claims will usually be settled on a 
shared liability basis. The accident Mr H had falls into this category, as while there were 
witnesses to the accident, due to the injuries Mr H suffered, he wasnt able to take details of 
who they were. So had Mr H not agreed shared liability for the accident when his personal 
injury claim was being discussed with the owner of the van, I think it most likely Red Sands 
would have reached the same agreement when discussing recovery with the owner of the 
vans insurer.
I would also comment that the cover provided by the policy isnt dependent on Red Sands 
being able to recover the claim costs. In the event that Mr H had made a mistake and had 
caused the accident  so he was 100% liable for it happening - he would still be covered for 
his losses. As such, irrespective of whether liability was determined to be Mr Hs, the owner 
of the vans or shared, Mr H would be entitled to the same settlement under the policy cover. 
While Red Sands hasnt placed much emphasis on this issue, I would also confirm that I 
dont consider the delay in providing the evidence for the claim consideration has prejudiced 
its position. That is because all of the evidence is available, and the delay has made no 
difference to Red Sands ability to assess the claim. 
Putting things right
The aim of redress for financial loss is to place a consumer in the same position as they 
would have been, but for the error on the part of the insurer. In this case I am satisfied Red 
Sands should have, in May 2019, assessed the claim evidence provided to it. It should do 
that now, in line with the policy terms and conditions.
If the claim is accepted, Red Sands should settle it, taking into account the current situation. 
By this I mean that if Mr H has replaced the bike since the end of summer 2019 (by which time Red Sands should reasonably have reached its claim decision), and so would prefer a 
cash settlement, this should be offered.
If the claim is settled in cash, interest at 8% simple per annum should be added to the 
settlement. Interest should be paid from when the claim should have been reasonably 
settled in summer 2019, had Red Sands actually considered the evidence, to the date of 
actual settlement. If Red Sands considers tax should be deducted from the interest, it should 
provide Mr H with appropriate documentation for use with HMRC.
I am aware that Mr H delayed the consideration of his claim by around a year and a half. 
However, Red Sands incorrectly rejecting the complaint has meant that Mr H has had a 
further two years of uncertainty about his claim. I dont consider that delay was reasonable 
for the reasons given above, and I consider Red Sands should pay Mr H £150 for that 
inconvenience.
Mr H responded to the provisional decision. He explained why he hadnt actively pursued the 
claim for some time  he was pursuing the personal injury claim. He was aware from a 
previous motor accident that the court would decide who was liable for the accident. He was 
advised by his solicitor that it would be better that this part of the process not be duplicated 
by both his legal team and the insurer, but the insurer could use the conclusions reached in 
the court case. In addition, recovery from his injuries, particularly that to his shoulder, meant 
he wasnt able to drive until March 2018 and he wasnt able to get the damage to his bike 
assessed until he could. Mr H also confirmed that hed ordered a new bike and that it was 
due to be delivered in August 2021.
Red Sands didnt accept my provisional decision. It raised concerns about how I had 
reviewed the complaint, in that I hadnt specifically commented on some court cases it had 
said supported its position that it had been prejudiced. It stated that it believed that I had not 
considered the relevant law when reaching my conclusions. It went on to quote another legal 
case that it considered should be considered when assessing the complaint and highlighted 
the findings of a judicial review in which the courts had concluded that where an ombudsman 
was not following the law when reaching their conclusion on a case, the ombudsman had to 
explain why. 
In addition, Red Sands said it didnt see any conflict in its reliance on both a policy exclusion 
and the prejudice rule. It said that it was an established fact that section 5.3.1 of the policy 
had been breached in the most obdurate manner by a privately negotiated liability 
agreement and that this had the effect of contravening the terms of the contract, regardless 
of the findings of this service about the matter. It also said that I had not addressed that 
breach or the subsequent non-compliance with sections 9.1.3 and/or section 10 of the policy. 
It highlighted that it was prevented from completing its assessment of the claim until long 
after the liability-splitting agreement had been reached.
Red Sands considered that had I assessed the case, as it believes I should have, including 
appropriately considering the prejudice rule, I may have reached a different conclusion about 
whether it had been prejudiced. 
I responded to Red Sands concerns about the legal points it had raised in a letter of 
8 December 2021, a copy of which was provided to Mr H for his information. In summary, I 
confirmed that despite Red Sands belief about my methodology in reaching my findings, I 
had taken account of the legal position when assessing the complaint. However, rather than 
making assumptions about what that would mean in relation to the facts of this case, I had 
completed an assessment of those facts (as would the courts), to determine if Red Sands 
position had actually been prejudiced.  I also commented further on the matter of Red 
Sands knowledge of liability matters relating to road traffic accidents  I remained satisfied that it would have been aware of how liability is established in such situations. Red Sands 
was then given the opportunity to provide any further comments or evidence it had relating to 
the merits of Mr Hs complaint. 
Red Sands thanked me for my consideration of its points and confirmed it had nothing 
further to add. As such, the case has been returned to me to reconsider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would confirm that I didnt mean to imply that it was inappropriate for Red Sands to 
introduce the concept of prejudice after our investigator confirmed that the exclusion it had 
previously relied had been incorrectly applied. However, it is generally helpful when an 
insurer sets out its conclusions about a claim in full at an early stage. 
Red Sands again highlighted several policy conditions that had been mentioned throughout 
our consideration of the complaint. As I have said above, there is nothing wrong with a 
financial business setting out all its reasons for reaching the decision it has, indeed, we 
encourage it to do so. However, this is a consumer policy and that means that the 
consideration of prejudice is the key one in this case, as a claim would only be defeated by a 
consumer breaching a policy condition if it had a material effect on the insurers ability to 
reasonably deal with the claim. I assessed whether Red Sands had been prejudiced by Mr 
Hs actions, both in relation to his acceptance of shared liability under the separate personal 
injury claim and the delay in providing evidence to allow Red Sands to consider the claim, in 
my provisional decision. I concluded that Red Sands hadnt been prejudiced and as such, it 
didnt have cause to decline to consider the claim. 
Having reconsidered all of the evidence I remain satisfied that Red Sands wasnt prejudiced 
by Mr Hs actions and so this complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
I remain satisfied Red Sands should have, in May 2019, assessed the claim evidence 
provided to it. It should do that now, in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
If the claim is accepted, Red Sands should settle it, taking into account the current situation 
of Mr H having already received a replacement bike. As such, Red Sands should offer a 
cash settlement.
Interest at 8% simple per annum should be added to the settlement. Interest should be paid 
from when the claim should have been reasonably settled in summer 2019, had Red Sands 
considered the evidence, to the date of actual settlement. If Red Sands considers tax should 
be deducted from the interest, it should provide Mr H with appropriate documentation for use 
with HMRC.
As I said in my provisional decision, I can understand Mr Hs reasons for not pursuing the 
claim immediately, and that delayed the claim by around a year and a half. However, Red 
Sands decision to decline the claim on the basis it did meant that Mr H had a further two 
years of uncertainty about his claim. I remain of the view that delay was unreasonable for the 
reasons given above, and I consider Red Sands should pay Mr H £150 for that 
inconvenience.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited to take the actions detailed in Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman