DRN-2711414
The complaint
Ms M has complained about the settlement amount paid by the National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) under her motor insurance policy after her car was 
written off.
What happened
Ms M was involved in an accident in April 2019 in which her car was badly damaged. She 
was informed that the vehicle was declared a total loss (or a write off) and NFUs engineer 
offered Ms M £5,200 to settle her loss, saying that she had found an example of a 
replacement vehicle at the value offered.
Ms M explained that the example vehicle was five hours away from her home. The engineer 
then increased the offer to £5,500. Ms M considered that this under-represented the value of 
her vehicle. She searched for a replacement vehicle, however was unable to find a suitable 
vehicle for this price. Cars between £5,700 and £5,999 were either higher mileage than her 
own car or in poor condition. 
Ms M contacted NFU and says that she was advised that she should accept the offer of 
£5,500 so that she could buy another car, and that this would not prejudice her complaint. 
Ms M said that she had no option other than to buy a car in a hurry. She found a like for like 
car which was four months younger than her own but with less mileage. Ms M bought the 
vehicle for £6,795 and she needed to obtain an additional loan in order to purchase it.  
Ms M made a complaint to NFU and sent a copy of a motor trade guide which indicated that 
her car had a retail value of £5,770. Ms M also provided evidence of the nearest like for like 
car priced at £6,100 but with 6,000 less mileage. She also provided evidence of a car priced 
at £5,950.00, however she said that it had a scratched boot interior, the odour of dogs, as 
well as a dent and scratched body-work.  Ms M said that if she could have found a vehicle in 
exactly the same condition and with exactly the same mileage as her own vehicle for £5,500, 
she would have gladly bought it.  
In NFUs final response letter, it stated that its engineer remained confident that the offer of 
£5,500 was fair and reasonable. It stated that the settlement amount had been calculated 
with the aid of two motor trade guides. It also said that this had been supported with market 
research examples. 
Ms M was unhappy with NFUs response and she has therefore complained to this service. 
Our investigator has looked into the matter and has considered the market value of Ms Ms 
vehicle using three motor trade guides. These produced market values for the relevant date 
in 2019 of £5,175, £5,450 and £5,485 respectively. In the circumstances he concluded the 
compensation of £5,500 provided by NFU Mutual was fair and reasonable. He also 
considered similar vehicles from a trade website and found six similar vehicles to Ms Ms in 
terms of make, model, mileage and condition for sale and the average price was £4,577. He 
also noted that with vehicles sold on this site, these often sold for less than the advertised 
price.
Ms M remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and so the matter has been 
referred to me to make a decision in my role as Ombudsman.
I would add that Ms M originally added a concern that her details had been passed on to a 
scammer who phoned to ask about details of her accident the day after it had happened. 
She thought that her mobile number could only have been provided by the company which 
recovered her vehicle on behalf of NFU. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and reached a final decision.
The key issue for me to determine is whether NFU acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its 
decision as to the level of settlement paid to Ms M following the write-off of her car. My role 
is not to provide an exact valuation but to make a judgment as to whether settlement is fair. 
In this case, I think that NFU acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances and Ill 
explain why.
The starting point is for me to consider the policy terms and conditions. In this case the NFU 
motor insurance policy states that in the event of a write off, NFU will compensate for the 
market value of the vehicle; If the car isdamaged we will: pay the cost of repair, or pay 
the amount of the loss or damage, or replace the car. We will decide which of the above 
appliesThe maximum we will pay will be: the market value of the car or, the value shown 
on the schedule, whichever is less. The term market value is defined in the policy to mean; 
The amount it would cost to replace the car with one of the same make, model, 
specification, age and condition.
The service doesnt consider the question of market value to be an exact science, however 
our general approach is that the valuations given in the main motor trade guides provide the 
most persuasive and consistent evidence. These guides are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices.
Its often possible to find adverts for cars for sale at a much higher price than someone 
would have to pay if they shopped around. Ive seen the adverts Ms M sent to NFU for 
similar cars advertised at higher prices and indeed the NFU and the services investigator 
have sourced evidence which demonstrates a wide range of prices. We find that advertised 
prices are generally less reliable than the trade guides. They vary widely (even more widely 
than trade guides) and tend to have a margin built in for negotiating the price down.
In this case, the three industry guides all indicate that NFUs settlement was slightly above 
the range of industry guide valuations and this provides persuasive evidence and a valuable 
starting point for an appropriate market value calculation. 
There is additional evidence in this case. Ms M has provided industry guide evidence for the 
relevant date of an alternative guide price of £5,770. NFU state that this doesnt show the 
necessary deduction for higher than average mileage however. 
I note that the car identified by Ms M which was advertised at £6,100 was comparable in 
terms of mileage and specification. I also acknowledge that Ms M had said that in her area 
she couldnt find a vehicle to replace hers for the settlement price offered and with a 
reversing camera. This doesnt however outweigh the persuasive evidence provided by the three trade guides based on a wide range of data, nor is it the services practice to adjust for 
regional variations as the guide prices are based on the national average to ensure 
consistency.
NFU have also referenced advertisements of cars for sale and state; There are 
exampleswhich are slightly newer than [Ms Ms] vehicle with less mileage being sold for 
£6,000 however they appeared to be valued higher in the market in comparison to the other 
examples previously discussed. Ive noted that the two higher value vehicles do have 
significantly lower mileage than Ms Ms car, so they dont persuade me that NFUs 
settlement is unfair or unreasonable.
Ms M had also compiled a list of prices following her accident and Im prepared to accept 
that the prices she had found ranged from £5,590 to £6,995. Again however, this does not 
tip the balance towards a finding against NFU in this case. I appreciate that Ms M needed to 
find a car quickly, however as above, cars are often advertised for sale at a higher price than 
their eventual sale price.
With regard to Ms Ms mobile phone number, I cant say that its more likely than not that it 
was NFU which disclosed this to a third party when it should not have done so, and I make 
no further finding in this respect.
I know that this will come as a disappointment for Ms M and I appreciate the time and trouble 
she has taken in communicating with this service. Overall however, Im not persuaded that 
the National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in settling Ms Ms claim for £5,500.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman