DRN-4250830
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the way in which British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) handled 
a claim under her Homecare home emergency insurance policy (the policy), including not 
properly identifying and repairing issues with her electrics. `
What happened
Since the most recent escape of water, which damaged her property, Ms C says shes 
experienced issues with her electrics  including receiving electric shocks and hearing 
buzzing noises coming from plug sockets and kitchen appliances. She also says that she 
can no longer use an electric radiator. 
Whilst assessing Ms Cs electrics and inspecting some appliances in April 2023, British Gas 
says its representative discovered that the earth wire to the dishwasher had been 
disconnected. It also says this wouldve been the cause of the electrical issues as no other 
issues with the electrics were found and they repaired the dishwasher. 
Ms S wasnt happy with British Gas response and complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. Ms C disagreed so her complaint 
has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. It must also handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it should not unreasonably decline a claim. 
Ms C has raised other complaints about British Gas, one of which has been determined by 
an Ombudsman in March 2022. Another is being considered separately by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. For the avoidance of doubt, in this decision, Ill focus on the issues set 
out in the background section above. 
I acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Ms C has, and in 
my own words. And Im not going to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. The rules 
that govern our service allow me to do this as we are an informal dispute resolution service. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it. I havent. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able to fulfil my statutory 
remit. 
I know Ms C will be very disappointed but for the reasons set out below, I dont uphold her 
complaint. 
Electric shocks
Ms C says shes been experiencing electric shocks when using appliances in her kitchen 
and her electrics have been tripping. She says this occurred after the most recent escape of 
water issue and she continued to raise concerns with British Gas. 
Looking at the log records, Im satisfied that British Gas did send representatives to Ms Cs 
property to investigate electrical issues and no faults were found which couldve 
compromised Ms Cs safety. British Gas has said that the checks were carried out by 
qualified electricians. Ive got no reason to doubt what it says so I accept that. 
It was only after a site visit in April 2023 that the issue with the dishwasher earth wire was 
discovered. British Gas representative said this would have been the cause of the electric 
shocks Ms C experienced.
Ms C thinks the dishwashers earth wire became dislodged when the representative of 
British Gas tried to move the dishwasher, when attempting to find out where the electrical 
shocks were coming from. So, she doubts that was the cause of the electrical issues shed 
been experiencing.  
In response to our investigators view, Ms C says there was a loud bang shortly after the 
representative tried to move the dishwasher. But when responding to our investigators 
request for any evidence that British Gas caused the issue with her dishwasher in May 2023, 
Ms C doesnt mention hearing a loud bang. She says:
The cable which was disconnected at the back socket could have been caused 
whilst the Engineers tried to remove the item from its stowage. They could have 
caused the internal damage... An electrician had done his checks in this area as 
established. I know this to be so as he left the dishwasher switch on after he left. I 
experienced this last shock shortly after.
So, she says the dishwasher was still on before the inspection by British Gas 
representative.
Ms C has also asked a third-party contractor - who was also present in April 2023 - to 
confirm in a statement she prepared what happened that day. And theres no mention of a 
bang. However, the report supports that that the dishwasher was the issue.
Ms C doesnt think British Gas tried to ascertain the cause of her electrical issues. Based on 
what Ive seen I dont think the conclusion of British Gas at the time  that the electrical 
issues were caused by the earth wire having become disconnected in the dishwasher  was 
unreasonable.
And as British Gas has pointed out the earth wire couldve become disconnected at any 
time. So, although its possible that a representative of British Gas caused the earth wire to 
become dislodged, Im persuaded that the overall evidence doesnt support thats more likely 
than not to have happened. 
Further, other than the issue with the dishwasher wiring, the representative who attended Ms 
Cs property in April 2023 has said that the circuit board and electrics were tested (in so far 
as they could without taking things apart). No tripping issues were found, everything was in 
working order and all readings were normal. The electrics and sockets to the kitchen were 
fully checked and tested and no issues or buzzing sounds were found. 
Without an alternative qualified electricians report contradicting whats said from around that 
time, Im satisfied that British Gas is reasonable to rely on the findings of the electrician when concluding, as of the date of the final response letter dated around early May 2023, 
that there were no electrical issues to repair. 
Dishwasher
For reasons set out above, Im not persuaded that the wiring of Ms Cs dishwasher was 
damaged by British Gas. 
However, a dishwasher is a named appliance covered under the kitchen appliance section of 
the policy. When the dishwasher was inspected in April 2023 and the earth wire found to be 
disconnected, this was repaired, and Im satisfied thats in line with the policy terms. I dont 
think British Gas needed to do anything more at that stage.
Ms C has more recently said that her dishwasher is not serviceable and needs to be 
replaced. Shes free to raise that issue with British Gas and make a claim under the policy 
for British Gas to assess under the terms of the policy.
Electric radiator
Although inspected during the visit in April 2023, I think British Gas reasonably concluded 
that the electric radiator wasnt covered under the terms of the policy and that Ms C would 
need to arrange for it to be inspected by a suitably qualified electrician. Looking at the 
sections of cover Ms C had the benefit of, I dont think cover is in place for the electric 
radiator.
And I dont think the evidence supports that the concerns Ms C had about the radiator before 
the visit were more likely than not caused by British Gas. 
Its also reflected by the report of British Gas representative that Ms C proceeded to 
remove a switch from the radiator that was still live and break it. So, they isolated the 
power, clicked it back on, made safe and left isolated at spur. Ms C doesnt agree. She says 
the switch casing was already loose when she handled it. But in any event, Im satisfied 
British Gas acted reasonably by taking the action it did, and providing safety advice to Ms C, 
even though the electric radiator wasnt covered under the policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman