DRN-2676838
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt treat them fairly when they were 
struggling to make repayments on a personal loan. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In February 2019 Mr and Mrs B took out a loan with Shawbrook. It was for £15,000, 
repayable over 60 months. For Mr and Mrs B to meet their contractual obligations 
they needed to pay Shawbrook £339.23 a month for the term of the loan.
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs B missed their monthly repayment. Mr B contacted 
Shawbrook to explain he was off work and it was agreed he would make slightly 
higher repayments over the following three months to clear the arrears on the 
account. I think it was reasonable for Shawbrook to agree to this as it was what Mr B 
asked for and the arrears were low. 
Mr B didnt make the agreed repayments and over the following months other short-
term repayment plans were agreed to, but then not adhered to by Mr B. I think 
Shawbrook acted reasonably here. It took Mr Bs circumstances into account and 
agreed repayments of £50 a month while he was looking for work. 
By March 2020 Mr Bs circumstances hadnt improved and by this point the arrears 
were significant, at £1,433.07. He was sent a default notice saying he needed to 
clear the arrears, or his account would be defaulted. I think it was reasonable for 
Shawbrook to take this step at this time as Mr and Mrs B were in significant arrears 
and there was no certainty Mr Bs circumstances would change in a way which would 
allow him to get the account back on track.
Mr and Mrs B didnt clear the arrears. Mr B did offer some further repayment plans, 
but these werent enough to satisfy the default notice and would ultimately have 
made Mr and Mrs Bs position worse as arrears would have continued to accrue, and 
the debt owed would have continued to increase as interest was applied. 
Shawbrook defaulted the account in April 2020. Mr B argues this was unfair because 
he kept in contact with Shawbrook and says he expected to receive government 
grants which would allow him to clear the arrears. I dont see things the same way. 
Mr and Mrs B were in significant arrears and there remained no certainty things 
would change. In my view it was reasonable for Shawbrook to default the account 
and I think its decision to do so has borne out as Mr B didnt clear the arrears, or 
return to the contractual repayments, in the months following the default. 
Mr B also says he should have been offered a payment deferral in line with the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance around what lenders should do for borrowers 
struggling because of the pandemic. As Shawbrook told Mr B, this guidance didnt 
apply to him as his difficulties began before the pandemic. So I dont think 
Shawbrook treated him unfairly here.  
Im aware Mr B has been disappointed with some of the customer service he 
received from Shawbrook, such as promised call backs not being made and delays 
with information. From what Ive seen, I agree Shawbrooks customer service could 
have been better at times. Shawbrook has acknowledged its short comings and 
apologised. I think this was appropriate in the circumstances.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr and Mrs Bs frustration, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman