DRN-3497810
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay), trading as Aqua, irresponsibly granted him 
credit that he couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
NewDay approved a credit card application for Mr S in October 2016. They initially provided 
a credit limit of £300 but in March 2017 they increased the credit limit to £950 and in July 
2017 the limit was raised again to £1,550. A final limit increase was applied in December 
2017 when it was raised to £2,250.
Mr S says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
NewDay disagree. They say that when they approved the credit card application they 
reviewed Mr Ss credit file and found he had no arrears and no County Court judgements. 
They said there was only £100 of unsecured debt and although there were three defaults on 
his credit file these were historic. They didnt see any signs of financial difficulty. 
And, when NewDay increased the credit limits they said the credit file and Mr Ss 
performance on his account suggested the additional credit was affordable for him.
Our investigator thought that NewDay shouldnt have provided the limit increase in 
December 2017 and suggested NewDay should take some action to remedy the situation. 
But as NewDay disagreed the complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Account opening.
I think NewDay completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. They 
reviewed Mr Ss credit file and gathered some information from him about his income and 
circumstances. That information suggested Mr S could afford the limited credit they were 
offering. There were defaults on the credit file, but they were historic with the most recent 
being registered 27 months earlier, so I dont think they should have raised concerns. Mr Ss 
unsecured debt was minimal and his performance on other accounts was good. Hed told 
NewDay that he earned £18,000 per year and I dont think there was evidence of financial 
difficulty or that NewDays decision to approve the application and provide the initial credit 
was unreasonable.
Limit increases in March and July 2017.
I think the checks NewDay performed when they increased Mr Ss credit limits here were 
proportionate. They reviewed Mr Ss credit file again and considered his performance on his 
credit card account. Given the amount of lending and the information provided in the checks 
completed I dont think they needed to verify the income Mr S had told them he was earning 
as I dont think there was anything to suggest this may have been inaccurate.
The information NewDay gathered showed that Mr S was managing his account quite well. 
There was one late fee prior to the March increase but he was clearing his balance and 
wasnt being charged any interest prior to that increase, so I think it was reasonable to lift the 
limit to £950.
Mr S was still making more than the minimum payment to his account before the second 
increase was applied. He was still within his credit limit and whilst there had been a couple of 
late payments these were resolved quickly. I think the July 2017 increase was also fair.
The limit increase in December 2017
There was a significant limit increase offered in December 2017. NewDay completed similar 
checks and, again, I think the checks were proportionate. But I think the information they 
received should have given NewDay cause for concern.
I think Mr Ss credit file was showing signs that he was having some financial difficulty. He 
was three months in arrears with a creditor and had exceeded his credit limit with NewDay in 
September and October 2017. Hed also been drawing cash from his credit card account 
which is expensive. I think all of that showed a level of reliance on the card which should 
have made NewDay aware that it was unlikely he would manage a higher limit in a 
sustainable way. I dont think NewDay needed to gather any further information. I think the 
information it had was enough to suggest the increased credit limit was unaffordable.
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Mr Ss credit limit beyond £1,500, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that 
limit. However, Mr S has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think 
he should pay this back. Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (which have 
not already been refunded) that have been applied to balances above £1,500. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr S along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after the December 2017 limit increase regarding this account from Mr Ss credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,500, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr S for the remaining amount. Once    
Mr S has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
the December 2017 increase in relation to the account should be removed from his 
credit file. 
If NewDay has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the debt 
from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out 
promptly. *If HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If 
it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to put things right in the manner set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman