DRN-1748186
The complaint
Mr W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr W bought the policy in 2010 about a month after he took out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons.
Mr W didnt select PPI on his credit card application form. The sale of PPI took place in a 
phone call about a month later when Mr W was activating a replacement card. The call script 
in use at that time required the salesperson to make clear the optional nature of the policy, 
and get the customers consent before adding PPI to their account. So, I think Capital One 
made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although 
I can understand why he cant remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr W got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because it got a high 
level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have 
told Mr W about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair. To put that right, 
Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% 
of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said. But these points dont change my decision.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman