DRN-4102487
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) wont refund over 
£16,000 he lost to an investment scam in June 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr M has fallen victim to a scam here, not that he authorised the 
disputed payments he made to his crypto wallet from his Virgin Money account (where 
his funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammers). The payments were 
requested using his legitimate security credentials provided by Virgin Money, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Virgin Money should have done more to prevent Mr M 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Its common ground that some of the payments Mr M made were unusual given that they 
did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and were automatically blocked pending 
further enquiry  such as the £2,000 payment made on 27 June 2022. Accordingly, its 
just a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with its 
intervention.
Having considered the questions Virgin Money asked during its intervention  as well as 
the responses given by Mr M  Im not persuaded there was anything further the bank 
could have done to have prevented the scam. Virgin Money asked Mr M on more than 
one occasions whether he was in contact with anyone else about the investment, to 
which he said he wasnt. Mr M said he had been thinking about investing for a while and 
that he wasnt taking advice from anyone else, despite this being untrue. He also misled 
the bank and said that no one had asked him to open any accounts as part of the 
investment, despite having set up a cryptocurrency account at the scammers instruction.
It isnt clear why Mr M wasnt upfront with Virgin Money in explaining what he was doing. 
But it was based upon the answers he gave that the bank was satisfied the payment 
wasnt likely being made as part of a scam. If he had answered the questions honestly 
and said he was in contact with a third-party broker that had told him to open a 
cryptocurrency account to send money to, then I accept it would have been incumbent 
on Virgin Money to maintain suspicion and probe further into the circumstances. But 
seeing as Mr M was not forthcoming with these details, I dont think there was any failing 
on the banks part to probe any further into how he came to be making the investment in 
the first place, as he had confirmed on more than one occasion that he had decided to 
do this himself. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Virgin 
Money liable for Mr Ms loss, because it seems more likely than not that he would have 
always made the payment to the scammers, notwithstanding any intervention made by 
the bank. 
Virgin Money reached out to the beneficiary bank after Mr M reported the fraud, but I can 
see it was told that no fiat funds remained in the receiving account, which isnt surprising 
given we know that Mr M purchased cryptocurrency and then sent it on to the scammer. 
So, I dont think there was anything more Virgin Money could have done here to recover 
the funds either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr M, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Virgin Money can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman