DRN-4390846
The complaint
Mr E complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc hasnt fairly handled a claim he made to it for 
reimbursement for concert tickets he bought using his credit card.
Background to this decision
I recently issued my provisional decision setting out the events leading up to this complaint 
and my intended conclusions on how I considered the dispute best resolved. Ive reproduced 
that provisional decision here and it is incorporated as part of my overall findings. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response, and I will 
address their responses later in this decision.
What happened
Mr E was celebrating his anniversary. He made plans to attend an overseas concert. As it 
was a special occasion, Mr E decided to treat himself (and his wife) to premium tickets in 
an area close to the stage. He used the services of a secondary ticketing agency A to 
secure what were described as Golden Circle tickets. Mr E paid a total of €1,434.56 
using his Sainsburys Bank credit card. This total comprised €1,051.20 for two tickets, 
€62.90 tax and €320.46 in booking and handling fees.
When Mr E received the tickets he immediately noticed that rather than being for the 
Golden Circle, they were for assigned seats in a block some distance from the stage. He 
attempted to engage with A, pointing out in several emails that the tickets were different 
from their description. As responses didnt seem to grasp the reason for Mr Es 
dissatisfaction. As hed already booked flights and a hotel, with little in the way of 
satisfactory engagement from A Mr E attended the concert. But he says the experience 
was significantly diminished, both by the problems hed had with A and by the location of 
the seats.
Given his experience Mr E felt he should only have to pay the face value and handling 
fees of the tickets he received. He turned to Sainsburys Bank to see whether he could 
recover his money through his card provider. Sainsburys Bank raised a claim using the 
chargeback provisions of the card scheme, issuing a temporary credit to Mr Es account. 
But A submitted a defence to the claim. Based on As response Sainsburys Bank said it 
couldnt assist further, and it reversed the earlier credit.
Mr E complained to Sainsburys Bank. But the bank maintained its stance. It said it 
couldnt progress the chargeback claim further. And it said section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (which can give rise to connected lender liability) didnt apply to the 
transaction. However, Sainsburys Bank did credit Mr Es account with £25 as a goodwill 
gesture.
Our investigator didnt think Sainsburys Bank was right to say that section 75 didnt apply 
to the transaction. He acknowledged that A wasnt itself the supplier of the tickets. But A 
did provide a service that was part of the overall transaction and the sum Mr E had paid 
using his credit card. That service included the provision of the secondary ticketing 
platform and As buyers guarantee, which included providing replacement tickets or a 
refund in certain circumstances.
The investigator was satisfied A had a responsibility for the accuracy of the description of 
the tickets on its platform. That description was that the tickets were Golden Circle. 
Based on Mr Es research of the venue, he understood that description to mean the 
tickets would be for the area closest to the stage. The photos hed supplied showed the 
tickets supplied were for a different section of the venue.
Overall the investigator considered As description amount to a misrepresentation for 
which Sainsburys Bank could be liable to Mr E. He proposed that the bank credit Mr Es 
account with £969.50 (being the amount Mr E sought to claim and the sum it had 
previously attempted to recover via chargeback), backdated to the date he felt it should 
have accepted Mr Es claim. The investigator further recommended that Sainsburys Bank 
rework Mr Es credit card account to reflect this, paying interest on any resultant credit 
owed to Mr E.
Mr E indicated hed be willing to accept the investigators findings and recommendation. 
But Sainsburys Bank didnt agree. It maintained its position that section 75 didnt apply to 
Mr Es transaction, citing excerpts from As terms and conditions and suggesting that they 
made the seller and not A responsible for the ticket listing. Sainsburys Bank further 
pointed to the same terms and conditions to explain why its chargeback claim was 
unsuccessful. In addition, Sainsburys Bank queried the amount proposed in resolution, 
noting that in buying from a secondary ticketing platform, Mr E was unlikely to have been 
able to purchase at face value the tickets he did get.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Does section 75 apply to Mr Es transaction?
Under section 75 there are several criteria that must be met for a successful claim against 
the creditor (or lender), which include that:
the agreement with the lender is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within 
section 12(b) or (c) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
the agreement with the lender is not a non-commercial agreement
the debtor has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, a claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract
that claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price of 
more than £100 but not more that £30,000
Here, Mr Es transaction involved more than one activity. There was the supply of goods 
by the seller (the tickets), and the supply of services (operating the secondary ticketing 
platform) by A. I accept, for the purposes of this decision, that A didnt contract to supply 
the tickets itself.
Theres no question whether the overall transaction or its individual elements were 
financed by the credit agreement between Mr E and Sainsburys Bank. Mr Es credit 
agreement with Sainsburys Bank is not a non-commercial agreement; that is, its not a 
consumer credit agreement not made by Sainsburys Bank in the course of its business. 
And looking at the breakdown of the transaction, even accounting for the currency exchange rate the services supplied (and charged for) by A fall within the financial limits 
of section 75.
So the remaining questions here are a) whether the agreement with Sainsburys Bank 
meets the definition of a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) of the CCA, and b) whether Mr E has, in relation to the arrangements with A, a claim 
against A in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Section 12(b) of the CCA says that a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within 
section 11(1)(b) and is made by the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in 
contemplation of future arrangements, between himself and the supplier. And section 
11(1)(b) says that a restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) other 
than the creditor.
As I understand it, Mr Es agreement with Sainsburys Bank is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. It was made by Sainsburys Bank in the knowledge that Mr E might use 
the credit card with suppliers such as A who accept it. As Ive already said, A was 
supplying its services to Mr E. It charged him handling fees of more than €320 for its 
services. That the card was also used to finance a transaction with the seller of the tickets 
doesnt render the rest of the arrangements invalid for the purposes of Section 12(b) or 
Section 11(1)(b).
Does Mr E have a claim in misrepresentation or breach of contract?
Our investigators assessment focused on whether there had been a misrepresentation 
over the way the tickets were described in the listing. He considered that A was 
responsible for the way ticket information  the venue, date, time and seating information 
 was displayed to potential buyers, and that where such information was incorrect, that 
could amount to a misrepresentation. While not expressed in precisely those terms, that 
was the essence of Mr Es claim.
It's important to note that its not necessary, for the mere purposes of engaging section 
75, that the debtors claim is successful. It should go without saying that not all claims that 
are pursued are successful; for example, they may be defended on their merits or 
dismissed on procedural grounds. Sainsburys Banks response to Mr Es claim is not, in 
my view, sufficient to demonstrate that Mr E has no claim. The fact that As terms and 
conditions require a seller to warrant ownership and the accuracy of any description of 
the tickets doesnt mean a claim cannot be brought against A (and by extension, 
Sainsburys Bank) on the basis of the ticket information shown on As website.
The information A displayed on its website about the tickets amounts to a statement of 
fact about the location of the tickets. Mr E states that he was induced to buy the tickets 
because of the statement that they were Golden Circle and the expectation of their 
location. He argues that the tickets were in fact not for the Golden Circle and that the 
description as such was misleading. So Im satisfied that he has a claim, albeit one that 
might be open to a range of defences.
There is a further point to consider, which is that a section 75 claim is not limited to 
misrepresentation. There is also the possibility of a claim in breach of contract. While 
what Mr E describes might be viewed as a misrepresentation argument, that doesnt 
exclude a breach of contract claim.As Ive already noted, A was supplying Mr E with a service. Under the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA), As contract with Mr E is to be treated as including a term that it would 
perform its service with reasonable care and skill1. Explanatory notes to the CRA say that 
it is generally accepted that relevant to whether a person has met the standard of 
reasonable care and skill are industry standards or codes of practice.
I further note that Chapter 5 of the CRA contains specific provisions dealing with 
secondary ticketing. These provisions have the effect of placing an obligation on both the 
seller and the operator of the secondary ticketing facility to ensure that (among other 
things) the buyer has the information they need to identify where their seat or standing 
area is located within the venue. Where applicable that information includes the row and 
seat number.
Failure to meet this obligation might not amount to a breach of contract in itself. But 
depending on the surrounding circumstances it might point towards a failure to perform 
the secondary ticketing service with due care and skill. So Mr E might also have a claim in 
breach of contract.
Taking all of this into account, Im currently minded to find that the necessary elements of 
section 75 are met, such that Mr E does have a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
claim against Sainsburys Bank.
Did Sainsburys Bank have due regard for its potential liability to Mr E under section 75?
In light of my previous findings Im minded to say that in concluding section 75 didnt 
apply, Sainsburys Bank didnt have due regard for its potential liability. I accept the bank 
was entitled to take a view on this aspect, but I dont think in doing so it had sufficient 
regard for the relevant test or the specific circumstances at play in this particular case.
However, as Ive noted above, the fact a claim (or claims) can be brought doesnt mean 
such claims would be successful. Rather than direct Sainsburys Bank to reconsider the 
claim as if section 75 applied, I think at this stage it would be more helpful to suggest the 
way in which I think matters are best resolved.
Ive thought about how Sainsburys Bank might have responded had it concluded that 
section 75 did apply. Its reasonable to say the banks response would have been along 
the lines it referenced in extracts from As terms and conditions. That was, after all, the 
basis for its decision not to pursue the chargeback claim and for its responses to our 
investigators assessment.
The extracts Sainsburys Bank reproduced say:
Section 1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [A] provides a service that allows members who want 
to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [A] does 
not take title to the underlying ticket (to the extent such title exists), and the actual 
transactions are between the Buyers and Sellers.
Section 2.4 Listing. To sell tickets, a Seller lists the tickets in the Site database. As part 
of the listing process, the Seller assigns a price to the tickets and provides information 
including but not limited to the event, date, section, seat, and row, and sale end date, 
all in accordance with the process outlined in the help pages...You also grant Us a 
non-exclusive, transferable, worldwide, paid-up, royalty-free right and license to 
reproduce, modify, adapt, publish and display on the Site and on the sites of our 
1 see section 49(1) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015marketing partners your descriptions of tickets listed for sale. This is so we can 
promote the sale of tickets and items that You list for sale. You further represent that 
you have purchased or been issued the ticket(s) or have a right to purchase or be 
issued the ticket(s) prior to listing such ticket(s) for sale.
Section 2.13 Ticket Information. Event dates, times, venues, and subject matter, which 
are listed on the ticket, may change. It is up to the Buyer to verify the most recent 
changes.
Section 3.1 Accurate Descriptions. For all tickets You list as the Seller, you warrant 
that Your descriptions of the tickets accurately detail and describe the tickets offered 
for sale. You also warrant that you own the tickets.
Im not persuaded by Sainsburys Banks arguments that the wording of As terms and 
conditions removes any liability it might have for the accuracy of the information it 
publishes on its platform. The terms cited do place obligations on the seller in relation to 
the ticket description. But they also create a term under which A appears to be entitled to 
modify the description given. Thats not really consistent with A merely being the conduit 
by which the seller can list their tickets without A having any responsibility for the 
description. It also doesnt address the obligation Chapter 5 of the CRA imposes on A as 
the operator of the secondary ticketing facility.
Even if A were able to rely on the sellers warrant in respect of the accuracy of their 
description of the tickets in defence of the misrepresentation (for example, that it was an 
innocent misrepresentation), the relevant legislation gives the court discretion to award 
damages in lieu of recission. So there would still be a liability for Mr Es losses.
In considering the service that A was providing to Mr E, Im minded to find that it extended 
beyond merely providing the mechanism by which he could acquire tickets from a third 
party seller. As service included, as the investigator noted, its buyer guarantee. This 
says:
2.15 [A] Guarantee. When You purchase tickets on [A], [A] guarantees that You will 
receive the tickets You paid for in time for the event. In the rare instance that a 
problem arises and the original ticket Seller does not provide You with the tickets listed 
for sale, [A] will, in its discretion, review comparably priced tickets and offer You 
replacement tickets at no additional cost, or [A] will issue You a refund for the cost of 
the tickets. "Comparably priced" replacement tickets are determined by [A] in its 
discretion...
2.16 Claims under the [A] Guarantee. If You receive tickets from the Seller that are 
not the tickets you ordered, or, are tickets that are invalid and are not honoured at the 
venue, or, in the case where we did not tell you about a restriction on the ticket which 
could result in you being prevented from using the ticket, we strongly advise you to 
Contact Us to report the issue. Issues relating to the tickets which are apparent prior to 
the event must be reported within 10 working days after receiving the tickets, 
otherwise this will no longer be covered by the [A] Guarantee...
The tickets were described by the seller and on As platform as Golden Circle. The 
tickets Mr E received didnt bear that description. They did, however, specify the block, 
row and seat number. Mr E was immediately able to identify these as a part of the venue 
some way distant from the stage and from where the commonly understood description of 
Golden Circle tickets would usually be situated. Having drawn this to As attention 
immediately on receipt as required by the terms and conditions, he might reasonably have expected A to have adopted a similar approach to the problem and take appropriate 
action.
Instead, over several communications A persisted in making the argument that the tickets 
were consistent with the description. Setting aside the factual information of the seat 
numbers and the fact they werent on the listing as required by Chapter 5 of the CRA, A 
appears to have adopted an inaccurate interpretation of the wording on the ticket, causing 
Mr E further frustration. Poor customer service alone doesnt necessarily amount to a 
failure to exercise due care and skill in performing a service, but I can quite understand 
why Mr E was unhappy with the responses he received from A even after pointing out 
how the tickets he received were different from the selling description.
I can also see how a failure to apply the guarantee provisions might amount to a breach 
of contract by A. Although the relevant term affords A discretion in considering what might 
be comparably priced tickets, the courts have said that discretionary power in a contract 
must be exercised reasonably, without being irrational, arbitrary or capricious. As 
proposal that Mr E keep the tickets he did receive and have a refund of their face value 
(not their cost) doesnt meet either of the remedies set out in its guarantee.
Based on this, I think its reasonable to conclude that Sainsburys Bank does have a 
liability to Mr E in respect of his claim, and that it didnt have due regard for this when it 
declined to reimburse him. Thats the case even if the original contractual responsibility to 
supply the tickets didnt sit with A.
Because of this, I havent gone further into the question of Sainsburys Banks decision 
not to progress the chargeback claim, although for similar reasons as Ive set out here, 
Im not sure As response was sufficient to overcome the claim. In any event, Im minded 
to direct Sainsburys Bank to pay Mr E compensation to resolve his complaint.
Putting things right
I dont think this means Sainsburys Bank is responsible for paying the full sum Mr E paid 
for the tickets; he did, after all, attend the concert. He has had some value. I recognise 
the banks argument that it is by no means certain that Mr E would have been able to buy 
the tickets he received at face value. He might have had to pay rather more if the concert 
was in demand, as it appears to have been. But I also recognise the power of the court to 
award damages for the reduced value or loss of enjoyment that Mr E suffered in paying 
for an experience he didnt receive as planned.
I consider that an appropriate remedy should recognise Sainsburys Banks potential 
liability for what appears to be a misrepresentation or breach of contract (and could 
possibly be both). It should consider the impairment of Mr Es enjoyment of the concert in 
comparison to the price he paid for the anticipated Golden Circle experience. It should 
also take into account that this was a special occasion Mr E had been planning and 
looking forward to for several months. And it should reflect the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of Sainsburys Banks handling of his claim.
While Im conscious our investigator sought to incorporate interest, rework the account 
and backdate payment as part of his proposed remedy, Im not minded to complicate 
things unnecessarily. Having carefully considered what Mr E has said in this respect, I 
propose that Sainsburys Bank pays him a total of £1,200 as a fair way of settling matters 
and to avoid the need for any further action.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my intended conclusions.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr E accepted my intended conclusions and had no further comments to make. But 
Sainsburys Bank didnt agree. It said:
As terms and conditions made clear that it supplied the platform and wasnt 
responsible for the description of the tickets. This was a misrepresentation on the 
sellers part for which the bank wasnt responsible even if A changed the description, 
as there was no debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement with the seller
As terms and conditions explained that it may intervene and assist if a supplier does 
misrepresent. A offered a resolution and therefore fulfilled its obligations in line with 
the terms and conditions. In its view, a breach of contract and or misrepresentation 
by A hadnt been evidenced. As guarantee wasnt binding either and it clearly stated 
that any applicable remedy will be provided at [As] discretion.
The proposed costs were unreasonable; there were handling and booking fees to 
consider and section 75 doesnt have a provision for compensation. If [the proposal] 
was considering consequential losses, it didnt explained what they were or provide a 
breakdown. Mr E was taking his wife abroad for their anniversary, therefore he was 
always going to incur travel costs
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out in some detail the reasons why section 75 applied to the 
transaction, and the extent to which the CRA brought into the contract terms that A had most 
likely breached. Sainsburys Banks response makes no comment on why that analysis of 
section 75 is incorrect, or why I should disregard what is clearly relevant legislation.
The bank hasnt provided any persuasive reasoning or evidence in support of its argument 
that As guarantee is not binding. The guarantee is part of the terms and conditions of As 
agreement with Mr E and creates a secondary obligation on A either to provide comparably 
priced replacement tickets or a refund in the event of a failure on the sellers part. As ability 
to exercise discretion is over which of these alternatives it offers, and what is meant by 
comparably priced. It doesnt mean that A could decide entirely for itself whether or not to 
meet its obligation.
Sainsburys Bank has referenced As proposal suggesting that this fulfilled its obligation. Ive 
previously noted that the options A did propose werent in line with the guarantee. But even if 
they were, its of note that As proposal was only made after extensive efforts on Mr Es part 
and was immediately followed by four further emails from A in which it returned to its original 
assertion that Mr E had been supplied with the correct tickets. In the circumstances I dont 
believe it would be right to say that the evidence supports that A met its obligation.
That leaves the question of the proposed redress. Sainsburys Bank has said that the 
proposal is unreasonable, noting the overall transaction included handling and booking fees. 
It has also made comments regarding compensation provisions of section 75 and references 
to consequential loss.
In my provisional decision I explained that my proposed award reflected various aspects that 
I considered it would be appropriate to take into account when determining a fair and 
reasonable sum for the bank to pay in settlement. Not all of the €1,434.56 (including the fees) that Mr E paid is being reimbursed. A proportion of that proposal reflects the distress 
and inconvenience Mr E was caused by the way the bank handled his claim. The bank 
should bear this in mind when contemplating the substance of the claim itself. 
I remind the bank that our money awards arent limited to financial loss2, and that we make 
them under statutory powers derived from the Financial Services and Markets Act 20003, 
rather than under section 75 of the CCA.
Section 75 provides the mechanism by which Mr E is able to bring a claim against 
Sainsburys Bank. Mr Es claim, whether in breach of contract or in misrepresentation, 
permits him to seek (among other things) damages in restitution4. The damages referenced 
here  the reduced value of the tickets he did receive and the impairment of his enjoyment  
flow directly from As obligations to him, rather than being consequential (or indirect) loss. 
While Mr Es travel costs might be an example of a consequential loss, I cant see why 
Sainsburys Bank has highlighted them, given that I havent proposed the bank covers these.
Having carefully considered Sainsburys Banks response, I dont find that its submissions 
persuade me to reach a different conclusion from the findings and redress proposal I set out 
in my provisional decision, and so I adopt them in full into this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle it, I order Sainsburys Bank Plc to 
pay Mr E £1,200, within 28 days of receiving his acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman
2 see DISP 3.7.2R in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook
3 see section 229 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
4 see section 54(6) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015