DRN-4221038
Complaint
Mr Y is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC didnt reimburse him after he fell victim to a scam.
Background
Mr Ys son has two accounts with banks other than Metro. In November 2021, his son 
received a phone call from someone who claimed to be an employee of the fraud team with 
one of those banks. Unfortunately, it subsequently transpired that this phone call hadnt 
come from a genuine employee of that bank, but from a scammer.
As I understand it, Mr Y was with his son at the time of the call. His son was told that there 
was a security breach that affected his phone and, by extension, the apps he had on that 
phone connected with his bank accounts. Mr Ys son was told that someone had attempted 
to use his details to lease a car in a different part of the country to the one Mr Y lived in.
To convince him that he was genuinely communicating with an employee of that bank, the 
scammers sent Mr Ys son a text message which appeared in an existing chain of messages 
hed received from the bank. Neither Mr Y nor his son were aware that scammers could 
spoof the origins of text messages in this way.
There was a second phone call with someone posing as an employee of his sons other 
bank. This call took place to persuade Mr Ys son that the banks were cooperating as part of 
a wider fraud prevention initiative. This phone call was also made using a spoofed number. 
Mr Y and his son were encouraged to search for that number online to confirm the 
authenticity of the call.
His son was persuaded to transfer money from his accounts to a safe account. He was then 
asked whether there were regular payments from his account to any other. There were 
multiple payments between Mr Ys account with Metro and his sons. He was told that this 
meant Mr Ys account was also at risk and he needed to transfer his funds to a safe account 
too.
I understand Mr Y said that he wanted to call Metro directly to check if this was true.
However, he was told that the consequences of doing so could be significant and that the 
investigation into this criminal activity might be jeopardised. The scammers persuaded him 
that he needed to make the transfers. His son helped him do so by taking control of his 
device and authorising the payments. Once he realised hed fallen victim to a scam, Mr Y 
notified Metro.
Metro investigated but didnt agree to reimburse him. It considered his complaint under the 
Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. It wrote:
Unfortunately, we felt that you did not take reasonable steps to check if the payment 
was genuine. For example, you were not contacted directly, you didnt question how 
[the other bank] would have had information about your Metro Bank account, and you 
didnt contact Metro Bank until after. In addition, in this instance, we did not consider 
ourselves liable as we provided you with an effective warning as per the CRM code.
Mr Y was unhappy with the response he received from Metro and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. She wasnt 
persuaded Mr Y had a reasonable basis for believing he was making the payments in 
connection with a genuine request. The scammers didnt know any of Mr Ys details, only 
those of his son. She didnt think it was clear why his account would be at risk even if his 
sons account had indeed been compromised.
Mr Y disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me to 
consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 June 2023. I wrote:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that Mr Y authorised these payments, even though he did 
so because hed been tricked by the scammers. The payments were made with his 
consent and so were authorised in accordance with Regulation 67 of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Under those regulations, he is presumed liable 
for the payments at first instance.
However, that isnt the end of the story. Metro Bank is a signatory to the CRM Code. 
This Code provides additional protection for the victims of authorised push payment 
(APP) scams. Im satisfied that the payments Mr Y made fall within the scope of the 
CRM Code. But despite offering additional protections, it includes provisions allowing 
a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully where it can establish that the 
customer failed to take sufficient care when making the payments. These are often 
referred to as the exceptions to reimbursement.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can 
establish that:
-In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the 
characteristics of the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the 
APP scam, the Customer made the payment without having a reasonable 
basis for believing that: the payee was the person the Customer was 
expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the 
person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
-The Customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate 
steps in response to that warning.
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this 
case.
Ive carefully considered the arguments made by Metro here, but Im persuaded that 
Mr Y did have a reasonable basis for believing that the payments he was making 
were for legitimate purposes. In so doing, Ive considered the characteristics of Mr Y 
as the customer.As I understand it, Mr Y and his son were in the same location when the initial call 
from the scammers was received. The scammers took several steps to persuade Mr 
Ys son that they were genuine employees of the banks he held accounts with. They 
inserted a confirmatory text message into an existing message chain he had with the 
first bank and then successfully spoofed the genuine number of the second bank 
when calling to confirm that they were part of an interbank anti-fraud collaboration. 
As I understand it, Mr Ys son was panicked by what hed been told during these calls 
and its likely this will have had an impact on how plausible the story was from Mr Ys 
perspective.
Ive also considered the fact that Mr Y and his son were told that the Metro account 
was at risk because it made regular transfers to and from the sons account. This 
meant that it was vulnerable. While the explanation as to why the Metro account was 
at risk wouldnt have been a persuasive one to someone with some knowledge 
regarding mobile phone technology and the operations of bank accounts, Mr Y had 
very little knowledge on this subject. I think his conclusion that this explanation was 
plausible was a reasonable one, if I take into account his knowledge at the time he 
fell victim to the scam.
Mr Y was clearly minded to call Metro to check if what his son had been told applied 
to him. However, the scammers told him that to do so would jeopardise the 
investigation into the criminal activity. Having already been persuaded that it was 
likely these two calls were genuinely from his sons banks, I dont find it was 
unreasonable for him to have taken that request at face value.
Metro says that it displayed an effective warning as part of the payment process. 
However, Mr Y told us that he allowed his son to make the payments on his behalf. 
One of the consequences of Mr Y allowing his son to make the payments in this way 
is that he didnt have sight of any warnings displayed during the payment process.
The test here is set out above and must be applied to the customer. The term 
customer is defined as having the same meaning as payer in the PSRs  in other 
words, the person who holds the account and initiates, or consents to the initiation 
of, a payment order from that payment account  That means theres no way of 
applying the test to Mr Ys son. Since Mr Y didnt see the warning that was displayed, 
he cant be said to have ignored it or that it ought to have impacted the 
reasonableness of his belief that this request to move his money was a genuine one.
I recommended that Metro Bank reimburse Mr Ys losses in full and add on 8% simple 
interest per annum. Metro Bank didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr Y responded 
to say that he had nothing further to add. 
As neither party has raised any new arguments or submitted additional evidence for me to 
consider, I dont see any reason to depart from the findings I have already outlined. I am 
therefore upholding Mr Ys complaint for the same reasons I outlined in the provisional 
decision. 
Final decision
I uphold this complaint. If Mr Y accepts the decision, Metro Bank PLC should:
- Reimburse the money he lost to the scam; and
- Add to that sum 8% simple interest per annum calculated to run from the date it 
declined his claim under the CRM Code until the date the settlement is paid.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman