DRN-2071100
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Santander UK Plc didnt help her to get back some money she paid for
a service she never received.
What happened
Mrs N paid £399 for a course of beauty treatment she never received. The company had
repeatedly cancelled the appointments it made for her. She wanted Santander to help her
get the money back. So she asked it to make a chargeback request. But Mrs N said that
Santander was making excuses not to help her.
Santander said that a dispute needs to be raised within 120 days of the transaction, or the
date the goods or services were expected, or from the date that Mrs N became aware that
she wouldnt receive the goods or services. It used the date her last appointment was
cancelled, on 7 March 2019, as that date. That meant she had until 5 July to raise her
chargeback request and provide Santander with further evidence for her claim to be
accepted.
Santander said it had sent Mrs N a letter on 25 June, asking for evidence that the firm had
gone into administration, and confirmation from the administrators that Mrs N wouldnt
receive a service. But she hadnt replied until 16 July, and her reply hadnt included the
requested evidence. Santander said that by 16 July, the time for Mrs N to make a
chargeback request had run out, and it wasnt able to help Mrs N.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Santander had acted
fairly in choosing 7 March as the start date for the 120 day countdown. And Mrs N hadnt
replied to Santanders second request for information within that deadline, so he didnt think
that Santander did anything wrong when it told her it was too late then to help her.
Mrs N didnt agree. She said shed called Santander, to say shed got the letter late. The 14
day deadline for replying had already passed before she received the letter. So she
contacted Santander and it said it wouldnt close her case while it waited for her to respond.
Mrs N also said Santander was now saying it couldnt help because she hadnt sent
information about the companys liquidation, but she couldnt get that from the companys 
website, as Santander had suggested. Mrs N said she only figured out that the company 
was closed when she went to the branch and it was empty and on the internet it said it was 
permanently closed. Mrs N didnt think Santander had sent the letter when it said it did.
Our investigator said hed listened to the call Mrs N made about the late letter, and the call
handler hadnt agreed to keep the whole case open. She only agreed to extend time for the
reply. So he didnt change his mind.
Mrs N said that Santander mustve sent the letter late, but our investigator said hed 
checked, and the letter was sent when Santander said it was.
Mrs N wanted her case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mrs N paid for this service at the end of July 2018. By early 2019, she still hadnt 
received the service. Her latest appointment was cancelled on 7 March 2019. Shes 
told us she then contacted the company, but it usually took 30 days to reply. That 
seems in keeping with the length of time that Mrs N has apparently been trying to 
organise to receive the service shed paid for.
Santander is able to take a chargeback request within 120 days of the transaction, or 
the date the goods or services were expected, or from the date that Mrs N became 
aware that she wouldnt receive the goods or services. It chose the date that the 
service was most recently cancelled. But Mrs Ns service had previously been 
cancelled a number of times. I dont think Mrs N had realised then that she was never 
going to receive the service. So I think Santander made a mistake. It picked the 
wrong date.
Mrs N said she only realised she wasnt going to get this service when she went to a 
branch, and found it closed. She checked the website then, and found that shut down 
too. 
I dont know exactly when Mrs N realised the branch was shut. I only know Mrs N 
said, on 18 June 2019, that shed only found this out recently. I think Santander 
shouldve found out from Mrs N when this was. And I think this is the date that 
Santander shouldve used. It seems likely, if Mrs N had only found this out recently, 
that using this date wouldve given her considerably more time to finalise her 
chargeback request.
I also think that Santander made further mistakes, in how it dealt with Mrs Ns 
chargeback. Santander had picked 7 March 2019 to start the clock for Mrs Ns 
chargeback. That meant that Mrs Ns time was up on 5 July. But Santander was still 
writing to Mrs N well after this date, asking for additional information to process her 
chargeback request. And when she rang Santander, and told it shed only just 
received a letter from it, the deadline had already passed. She wasnt told this, and 
she shouldve been.
Santander asked Mrs N for information about whether the company had gone into
liquidation. Mrs N didnt have that information. Some information about the status of 
the company was available at Companies House, and I think Santander shouldve 
considered this. That suggests that there was an application for compulsory strike off 
for this company earlier in 2019, that an objection suspended this before Mrs N 
asked Santander for help, but that the company was ultimately struck off at the end 
of 2019. So the company may not have been insolvent when Mrs N made her 
request.
I think its more likely than not that Mrs Ns request wouldve been successful if it had 
been properly processed by Santander. And its too late for Santander to make the 
chargeback now. So I think it should pay Mrs N the amount she was seeking to 
recover now.I also think that this chargeback request, and the subsequent complaint, has caused 
Mrs N stress and inconvenience. For that reason, I think Santander should also pay 
Mrs N £100 in compensation.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs N didnt reply. Santander replied to raise objections.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said it understood I thought it had picked the wrong start date for the 120 day 
deadline. It chose the date of the last cancelled appointment. At this point in March having 
had the appointment cancelled again, Santander thought it was plausible for Miss N to have 
had reason to believe she would have cause for concern. Miss N had already had 
appointments cancelled and not much contact in regards to her treatment. So Santander 
asked why she waited until June to chase the treatment up.
Santander said that with chargebacks, the 120 day deadline begins from the date of the 
expected service, the last known date was in March. This is why Santander chose this date. 
Santander said with chargebacks evidence is taken into account, Miss Ns testimony 
wouldnt be sufficient.
And finally, Santander said even if it had raised the chargeback and contacted the company 
in question, it knows now that this company had already gone into liquidation. So even if it 
had attempted to chargeback the funds, theres no guarantee there would be any money 
remaining to repay Mrs N anyway.
Ill respond to each of those points in turn.
Time for the 120 day deadline on chargebacks doesnt simply start to run on the date that 
the service is expected. Santander set out in its letter of 5 August 2019 that a chargeback 
must be raised within 120 days of the transaction or the date the goods/service were 
expected, or from the date that you became aware that you would not receive the 
goods/service [emphasis added]. I explained in my provisional decision that I thought Miss 
N wasnt aware until some time after her March appointment was cancelled, that she wasnt 
ever likely to get this service. 
Miss N said shed tried repeatedly to contact the business after the March appointment date, 
but she didnt hear back, then found the branch was closed. She then sent an email at the 
start of June saying she would consider the business in breach of contract if it didnt reply 
within 14 days. This explanation is included in evidence that Miss N sent to Santander on 18 
June. So I dont think Miss N did wait until June to chase up, after the March appointment 
was cancelled. And I still dont think Santander chose the right date, when it used the date of 
this appointment to start time running for the 120 day deadline on chargebacks. 
Santander suggested that only evidence is taken into account for chargebacks, and Miss Ns 
testimony was insufficient. Whilst I would expect Miss N to have documentation to support 
what shes said in this case, what she simply says to Santander still ought to be considered 
as part of the chargeback process. Im not sure what part of Miss Ns narrative, if any, 
Santander thinks isnt supported. It hasnt told us. And I think shes provided a reasonably 
clear explanation of what happened, so I dont think this changes the outcome of this case. Santander has also said it didnt think it wouldve got the money back anyway, because it 
now knows the company was in liquidation. I havent seen, or been able to find, any 
evidence of that. I know that there was an application for compulsory striking off, but that 
isnt the same thing, and doesnt necessarily mean that the company had no money. I also 
set out in my provisional decision that the strike off action was suspended before Mrs N 
asked Santander for help. So I dont think I can infer, from the evidence I do have, that the 
company had no money when Mrs N made her request. 
Ive reconsidered this complaint, and I still think it should be upheld. Ill now make the award 
I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mrs N £499.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman