DRN-2884077
The complaint
 Mr R is unhappy that St Andrews Insurance Plc rejected a claim under his home insurance 
policy for accidental damage to services. 
What happened
Mr R made a claim to St Andrews after hearing from his tenant that according to the local 
water company a mains water pipe in his garden was leaking. He said the pipe had been 
damaged by tree roots and he was going to have it repaired the next day.
St Andrews didnt think tree roots would be able to penetrate a pipe unless there was an 
existing defect. So it declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover gradual damage.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator thought St Andrews should have 
accepted the claim because neither Mr R nor his tenant could have been reasonably aware 
that the damage was happening. She recommended that St Andrews should pay for the 
repair of the section of pipe that was damaged. After receiving further submissions from the 
parties our investigator said that St Andrews should reconsider the claim to replace the 
whole pipe as opposed to just the damaged section. St Andrews agreed to that.
As St Andrews didnt say how much it would pay to settle the claim, Mr R asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has provided two invoices in support of his claim  one for replacing the damaged pipe 
and the other for related works to his garden. Its not clear to me whether Mr R is claiming for 
the amount paid in respect of both invoices or only for the replacement pipe. But as St 
Andrews hasnt assessed what settlement might be made, it would be premature for me to 
consider the quantum of the settlement.
Whilst I understand why Mr R would want to know the amount of the settlement before he 
agrees to close his complaint, I think its only fair that St Andrews should have the 
opportunity to reconsider the claim subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions. Its 
my view that if the parties cant reach agreement over the amount of any cash settlement, 
then the actual amount of the claim hasnt been considered by this service so Mr R will be 
able to make a further complaint about it. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think St Andrews should reconsider Mr Rs claim for accidental damage 
to services on the basis that the whole pipe had to be replaced and subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require St Andrews Insurance Plc to reconsider Mr Rs claim for 
accidental damage to services on the basis that the whole pipe had to be replaced and 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman