DRN-2749922
The complaint
Mr W complains Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd (RCIB) didnt do enough when his 
payment to renew his roadside assistance policy failed.
What happened
Mr W took out the policy in April 2019. He said he received an email on 18 March 2020 to 
say the policy would be automatically renewed which he was happy with. But when he called 
RCIB after his car broke down in January 2021, he was told the policy wasnt in force 
anymore. He didnt understand why at the time but, having broken down on a motorway, 
arranged for his car to be recovered by paying a local garage to do this.
After this he got in touch with RCIB to ask what had happened. He said they told him theyd 
sent him an email on 20 April 2020 to let him know his payment hadnt gone through. Mr W 
says he never received this email and complained.
RCIB replied to the complaint. They explained theyd emailed Mr W on 8 March 2020 to say 
as long as his payment was successful then the policy would continue for a further 
12 months. They said they emailed him again on 18 March 2020 to say the renewal was 
being arranged, itd be done on 20 April 2020, and the cost of the policy was £59.99. And on 
20 April 2020 they said theyd emailed him to confirm the payment had failed, and unless he 
got back in touch the policy would lapse. RCIB said as theyd contacted him about the failed 
payment, and hadnt heard, theyd not done anything wrong, so wouldnt be meeting the 
costs Mr W had asked them to.
Unhappy with this Mr W asked us to look into things. When doing so he said hed received 
the 18 March 2020 email saying theyd be renewing his policy  but he never received the 
20 April 2020 email saying the payment had failed. He felt RCIB had a duty of care to ensure 
hes not without cover and needed to do more than just send one email  such as follow up 
emails, a letter to his home or phone calls. Mr W also let us know his payment card had 
expired, which explained why the payment didnt go through. But he still didnt think their 
process was good enough.
Our investigator considered all of the information provided but found RCIB had emailed 
Mr W about the failed payment  so she didnt think they needed to refund him the costs 
from the local garage.
Mr W said he understood RCIB may have followed the rules, but he didnt think what theyd 
done was fair and reasonable. Overall, he didnt think one email about the payment failing 
was enough and thought there should have been more contact attempts. He said an 
additional email would be very simple for RCIB to have done and would have saved him 
standing on the roadside without a policy in place. Because Mr W didnt agree with our 
investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt it was an unpleasant surprise for Mr W to find he no longer had cover when he 
called RCIB in January 2021 for help. But I can only require them to do something if I think 
theyve done something wrong  or not acted fairly and reasonably. 
From all the information I have, it seems RCIB emailed Mr W three times in the lead up to 
his policy renewal date. The first on 8 March 2020 to explain they now offered automatic 
renewals, the second on 18 March to say theyd automatically renew his policy, and the third 
on 20 April to say the payment request failed.
Mr W received the email on 18 March  which would appear to confirm RCIB were 
contacting the correct email address. Why Mr W didnt receive the 20 April email I cant say. 
But, RCIB have provided evidence to show they sent this email to him, and its not in dispute 
he didnt get in touch to renew his policy.
Based on that, I cant say theyve done anything wrong, as they did attempt to contact him.
I also cant see RCIB did anything wrong when attempting to take the payment either. 
Theyve provided a screenshot to show it failed  and Mr W has also confirmed his card had 
expired which is the reason it failed.
I note Mr W has concerns over RCIBs approach to only contact parties once if the payment 
doesnt go through. I cant change their processes, I can only assess whether I think as a 
result of their processes Mr W has been unfairly disadvantaged. But, as they did email him, I 
dont think he has. So, I wont be telling them to refund his costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman