DRN-3789639
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont fully reimburse 
him the money he lost after he fell victim to an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this case are well known to the parties, so I wont detail them again here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the key events and reasoning behind my decision. This is not a 
discourtesy to Mr H or Halifax; it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Between May and June 2021, Mr H fell victim to an investment scam and was tricked into 
making payments to a scammer. He was contacted unexpectedly in May 2021 about an 
investment hed made previously in 2019. Mr H recalls making a small investment in 
August 2019 for around £250. He was told by the scammer that his investment had 
increased to £25,000 and that while the company hed invested in previously had lost its 
licence, it was authorised to release the money to Mr H. 
Mr H has commented that it was explained to him by the scammers that hed need to 
essentially mirror the money in a cryptocurrency exchange account before hed be able to 
withdraw the investment funds. Mr H says he agreed to this and the scammers assisted him 
in setting up a cryptocurrency account with a company Ill refer to as CB. He provided a copy 
of his passport as identification. Mr H has also explained that he provided the scammers 
access to his computer by using remote access software. 
Believing he was in contact with a legitimate person and that they wanted to assist him with 
obtaining his money, Mr H went ahead and made multiple payments from his account with 
Halifax to an account in his name with CB. He says that the money he was putting in was 
being traded with good results.  
Around June 2021, Mr H told us he was then informed he was due a return of £128,000 on 
his investments. And to be able to release this money hed need to do one further mirror. I 
understand Mr H said he didnt have the funds. The scammers via remote access software 
applied for a £15,000 loan in Mr Hs name with the bank. The funds credited Mr Hs account 
on 3 June 2021 and that day Mr H attempted to make a payment for £16,000 to his account 
with CB. This payment flagged on Halifaxs fraud detection system for further checks. It 
appears Mr H also attempted a payment for £15,000 to an account in his name with another 
bank shortly after the £16,000. As the payment to CB was flagged, the payment for £15,000 
was also stopped by Halifax. Mr H says the scammer told him to tell the bank that the 
payment was for home improvements.  
For ease, the payments Mr H made are listed in the table below along with other relevant 
events.
Date Time Amount Payment sent 
toAdditional 
commentary
12 May 2021 21:52 £2,500 CB
12 May 2021 23:21 £2,500 CB
18 May 2021 16:48 £3,000 CB
18 May 2021 17:11 £2,200 CB
18 May 2021 17:42 £800 CB
24 May 2021 10:40 £3,000 CB
26 May 2021 19:23 £3,000 CB
26 May 2021 19:59 £2,000 CB
27 May 2021 10:40 £2,500 CB
28 May 2021 10:52 £1,500 CB
28 May 2021 11:07 £1,500 CB
28 May 2021 13:18 £2,000 CB
29 May 2021 10:40 £5.00 CB
3 June 2021 11:17 £15,000 Incoming loan credit
3 June 2021 11:21 £16,000 CB Payment flagged
3 June 2021 11:31 £15,000 Mr Hs account 
with another 
bankPayment flagged
3 June 2021 12:07 Call with Halifax about the payments above in bold and 
the loan
3 June 2021 12:55 £15,000 To Mr Hs 
account with 
another bank
3 June 2021 17:53 £2,000 CB
16 June 2021 £15,000 Unwound loan
16 August 2021 £2,000 Fraud refund
Total payments 
sent to CB£28,505.00
Mr H spoke with the bank on 3 June 2021 about the flagged payments - £16,000 to CB and 
£15,000 to his account with another bank. During this call, the agent informed Mr H that the 
payment to CB was a scam. As a result, the payment to CB was cancelled. The banks agent 
in this call asked Mr H about the loan taken out and about the £15,000 payment to his other 
account. He was asked if hed been told to take out a loan and to send it to CB and to 
somewhere else. Mr H explained it was for home improvements and provided details as to 
what the money would be spent on  double glazing. Mr H at this time confirmed he wanted 
to go ahead with the payment to his other account, that it was to be used for home 
improvements. Following this, the £15,000 was re-processed and successfully sent to Mr Hs 
other bank account. 
Mr H later the same day, successfully made a further payment of £2,000 to CB. 
Following the payments from his Halifax account, Mr H proceeded to make further payments 
from the account he held in his name with the other bank.
When Mr H didnt receive the funds he was expecting, he became suspicious hed fallen 
victim to a scam. Mr H contacted Halifax on 14 June 2021 to report what had happened. 
Halifax didnt initially raise a scam claim as they said the payments had gone to an account 
in Mr Hs own name with CB. However, after further contact with Mr H it raised a claim in 
July 2021. Its said this was raised as the complaint manager felt based on what theyd been 
told Mr H may not have been able to access the CB account himself. At this point, the bank 
contacted the receiving bank in an attempt to recover the funds. Unfortunately, it received a 
response to say no funds remained as theyd already left the account. After considering the matter, Halifax refunded Mr H the further £2,000 payment he made on 
3 June 2021 at around 17:53. It acknowledged it was aware of the scam at this stage and, 
therefore, it ought to have prevented this payment being made. It also applied 8% simple 
interest on this amount. Halifax also unwound the loan of £15,000 on that basis Mr H told it 
that he didnt apply for this himself and he hadnt read the terms and conditions. Halifax also 
paid £125 compensation in recognition of the level of service it had provided.  
Unhappy Mr H brought his complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked into things and 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In brief, he was satisfied the payments Mr H 
made as part of the scam werent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
Code) as theyd been made to an account in his name. While he thought Halifax ought to 
have intervened sooner than it did, he didnt think any earlier intervention wouldve 
prevented Mr H from continuing to make the payments. 
Mr H disagreed with our Investigators view and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. As an agreement couldnt be reached it has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that I do believe that Mr H was the victim of a callous and cruel 
scam. Im also aware that since Mr H has brought his complaint to us, his wife has sadly 
passed away. I recognise this will have had a profound impact on not only Mr H but his 
family too and Id like to offer my condolences as well as my sympathy for this difficult time - 
on top of the impact the scam has had on Mr H both financially and emotionally. 
Having thought very carefully about what Mr H has told us happened at the time, and 
Halifaxs actions, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Halifax liable for 
his remaining loss. So, having considered everything, Im not upholding this complaint. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain my reasons why. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr H authorised the payments made as the 
result of this scam. Mr H was aware of the payments being made from his account and he 
also provided sufficient information and access for the scammer to transact on his behalf  
for example when applying for the loan in his name. Whilst Mr H didnt intend for the 
payments to be sent to a scammer, Im satisfied Mr H was sufficiently aware of the 
transactions being made. This means under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and 
the terms of his account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. But the 
matter doesnt end there.
Ive also considered whether the payments could be considered under the Lending
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code. That doesnt appear to be
the view of the Investigator or bank. Under the provisions of the CRM Code, only payments 
made to another person are potentially eligible for reimbursement.
In this case, Im persuaded based on what Ive seen and been told, that the payments
Mr H made from his Halifax account went to a cryptocurrency account held in his own name.
Mr H says the scammer assisted him with setting up an account with CB and he confirms he 
provided identity documents to do so. Mr H has also explained that he granted the scammer 
access to his computer via remote access software. So, whilst I note within the information 
Ive seen there has been reference to Mr H not having access to his CB account, on balance, Im persuaded that an account was set up in his name, which he was aware of. In 
his submission to us, Mr H has also explained that due to changing his contact information 
and email address, he had difficulty signing into his CB account. 
Overall, though the scammer clearly had a significant role in setting up and using the 
account, I think I can fairly say that it was set up on Mr Hs behalf, with his consent and that 
he appears to have had some access to it. So, I think it would be reasonable to say that the 
payments from his Halifax account initially did not go to another person and therefore are not 
covered under the CRM Code.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Halifax should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
So I must consider whether the payments Mr H made to the scammer were unusual and out 
of character for his account  and having reviewed Mr Hs account statements, I agree with 
our Investigator. I dont think the first two payments he made ought to have flagged as 
suspicious to Halifax, but then, on 18 May 2021 when Mr H made three payments totalling 
£6,000 within an hour, I think this ought to have appeared as suspicious and out of character 
for his account. Im persuaded there was a pattern emerging that appeared potentially 
harmful and indicative of a scam and so, Halifax ought to have got in contact with Mr H to 
discuss the payments he was asking to make to CB.  
Whilst I accept the bank ought to have had concerns about the payments Mr H was making 
and ought fairly and reasonably to have contacted Mr H to discuss the payments he was 
asking to make sooner than it did, I dont think earlier intervention wouldve made a 
difference in this case or prevented Mr H from proceeding with the payments. I say this 
because, when Halifax spoke with Mr H about the payments that flagged on 3 June 2021 
(£16,000 to CB and £15,000 to another account Mr H held), and asked him questions about 
his CB account  how this was set up, about the third party company hed said contacted 
him about the investment  the agent told Mr H that this was a scam. The agent clearly said 
to Mr H in this call that this is a scam. The agent added that any unexpected call offering an 
investment is a scam  no ifs or buts. Its a scam.  
Im also mindful that in this call, Mr H was also asked about the loan for £15,000. The agent 
asked Mr H if the third party had told him to take out a loan to send to CB to somewhere. Mr H said the loan was for home improvements for double glazing. The agent then explained 
that the concern is that the bank knows that scammers once they have got payments from 
people may say todays another good day and when a person says they dont have any 
money they are told to get a loan. 
At this point in the conversation, Mr H has been told by the bank that the attempted payment 
to CB for £16,000 was a scam and he agreed to cancel this payment, yet he asked to go 
ahead with the £15,000 payment to the account held in his name with a different bank. The 
agent asked Mr H if he was 100% sure people hadnt asked him to apply for a loan, that he 
applied for the loan himself for home improvements, to which Mr H said yes. He added that it 
will cost that for home improvements and other things he wanted to do to the house. The 
agent spoke more with Mr H about the third party company  with the agent telling him that it 
looked like the company was potentially based outside of the UK and proceeded to speak 
about how scammers impersonate companies, set up accounts for customers with CB and 
that they can see the money coming in. The agent said that effectively what you are doing is 
sending money to an account they have control over but is in your name. The agent then 
again asked Mr H that there was no other reasons for the payment to the other account in 
his name. Mr H said to cancel the payment to CB and transfer the money to his other 
account. 
Given that the agent, explained its concern to Mr H about the loan and the situation that 
scammers ask people to take out a loan and send on to CB  which is eventually what Mr H 
did from his other account  I think this ought to have caused him significant concerns and 
given him pause for thought. Yet, following this call, Mr H continued to make payments as 
part of the scam from a different account he held. 
So, while I find Halifax ought to have intervened sooner than it did here, on balance, Im not 
persuaded Mr H wouldve stopped making the payments. I say this because, Mr H was told 
this was a scam on 3 June 2021 and yet he proceeded to make a further payment from his 
Halifax account and three payments from another account he held. So even if Halifax 
contacted Mr H sooner than it did, I think it is more likely than not that he wouldve still 
moved past the banks concerns and proceeded to make the payments  as he did following 
the call on 3 June 2021. And in the absence of any other information that suggests 
otherwise, based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded Mr H was determined to proceed with the 
payment regardless of what he was told by the bank. In light of this, I cant fairly and 
reasonably say Halifax couldve prevented his loss. This said, as Ive explained above, Mr H 
did go onto make a further payment to CB after the call with the bank on 3 June 2021 for 
£2,000. Halifax recognised it ought to have stopped this payment and has reimbursed this 
back to Mr H, along with interest and a compensation payment for the service he received. I 
find this fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax could have recovered Mr Hs funds once it was 
aware of what happened. Halifax didnt initially raise a scam claim for the reasons Ive set 
out under what happened. This wasnt raised until July 2021  which was some time after 
Mr H informed the bank about the matter. However, I dont think any earlier contact with the 
receiving bank wouldve made a difference to the recovery of Mr Hs funds here. I say this 
because, from what we know from experience, the scammer likely wouldve moved the funds 
from the CB account promptly after it was received. So even had Halifax acted immediately 
when Mr H contacted it in June 2021, I dont think it likely it wouldve been able to recover 
the funds. 
In summary, Id like to assure Mr H that I dont in any way mean to diminish the difficult 
personal circumstances he has found himself in. But for the reasons Ive explained in this 
decision, I dont think Halifax has acted unfairly in declining to provide a full refund to him.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman