DRN-1978608
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about UKI Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have a home insurance policy with UKI which covers damage to their buildings 
and contents, amongst other things.
They made a claim after they had a leak of water from an upstairs bathroom. This caused 
damage to the rooms below, including their kitchen.
UKI have paid for damaged contents and for repairs to the bathroom and the ceiling of the 
room below. Theyve also dried the property and paid for repairs in the utility room and 
study. And they provided a scope and costing for work they felt was necessary in the kitchen 
 which include replacing the floor.
However, Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with the cash settlement offered by UKI for repairs to 
their kitchen. They believe the scope of the work UKI say is covered isnt wide enough. 
Specifically, they think replacement of their kitchen units should have been covered.
They also think the costings for the work UKI did agree to carry out were too low. And they 
say UKI didnt review their position when they asked for someone other than the claims 
handler to do so.
They made a complaint to UKI about these issues. They also said there had been delays in 
responding to their communications at times. And they think UKI have failed to respond 
properly to a subject access request they made under the Data Protection Act.
UKI upheld the complaint about service issues and paid Mr and Mrs T £350 in 
compensation. But they maintained they wouldnt pay for replacement of the kitchen units 
because these hadnt been damaged by the water leak but had gradually deteriorated over 
time.
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with this outcome and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs T disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T expressed their dissatisfaction with the attitude and approach of the claim 
handler. UKI couldnt find any clear evidence of that but awarded Mr and Mrs T £350 
compensation for any service issues. That seems to me to be perfectly fair and reasonable.
We also advised Mr T that if he remained unhappy with UKIs handling of his data protection 
subject access request, he should complain to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
who are far better placed than us to determine whether UKI have or have not failed to meet 
their legal data protection obligations. I believe Mr T has made a complaint to the ICO.
That leaves two fundamental issues in this case. Whether UKI should cover the damage to 
Mr and Mrs Ts kitchen units. And whether their costings for the work they agreed to cover 
are reasonable.
Ill deal with the costings first. UKI offered just over £3,000 for the work they thought should 
be covered in the kitchen. Mr T obtained quotes form two local builders. One at around 
£6,000 and the other over £7,500. 
I suspect the scopes might be slightly different. The more expensive quote obtained by Mr T 
appears to be for stripping out the kitchen and utility room and preparing for a kitchen 
replacement. This isnt what UKI had in mind  and cuts across the issue about what the 
scope should be, which Ill come to shortly.
Its also true to say that UKI, as a major insurer, can obtain rates for building and repair work 
which arent offered to private customers. I can see UKI have prepared a detailed schedule 
of works and I can see no reason to suspect that scope has been costed inappropriately or 
inaccurately. 
So, Im satisfied UKIs costings  for the work they say is covered  are reasonable and 
represent what it would cost them to get the repairs carried out.
Theres also an important principle here which I should set out in some detail. Our view is 
that in most cases, if the customer insists on a cash settlement for a claim, the amount 
offered by the insurer should reflect the cost to them (the insurer) of getting the repairs done. 
In such cases, the insurer is willing to indemnify the customer by carrying out repairs to put 
them back in the position they were in before the damage / loss. If the customer wants cash 
instead, it wouldnt be fair to the insurer to insist they pay the full cost to the customer  
which will almost inevitably be more expensive.
On the other hand, if the insurer insists on a cash settlement - and the customer is in effect 
left with no choice in the matter  wed expect the insurer to pay the full amount the 
customer has to pay to get effective repairs and/or replacements carried out.
In this case, UKI offered to have their contractors repair Mr and Mrs Ts kitchen. Mr and 
Mrs T refused that offer. Indeed, they went ahead  without any approval from UKI  and 
had the whole kitchen replaced at a total cost of over £20,000 (some of which was covered 
by UKIs earlier payments).
So, in this case, it was the customers decision to opt for a cash settlement. Mr and Mrs T 
left UKI with no choice in the matter. So, UKI are entitled to provide a cash settlement which 
reflects what it would have cost them (UKI) to get the repairs done rather than what it cost 
Mr and Mrs T. And as I say, I cant find any reason to suspect that UKI havent costed the 
work they proposed to do properly and accurately.
That brings me to the question of whether UKIs scope was sufficiently wide. Theyve 
maintained that Mr and Mrs Ts kitchen units didnt need replacing. And that any damage to 
them was caused by gradual deterioration rather than the leak itself. They said they would replace the kickboards  which were directly affected by the leaked water, but not the units 
themselves.
Mr and Mrs T say their kitchen was basically sound before the leak and the water from the 
leak caused the chipboard base of the units to blow meaning that the whole kitchen needed 
to be replaced. Theyve provided photographs which appear to show damage to the units 
bases and mould growing in the chipboard.
I cant now say beyond doubt whether the kitchen units needed replacing as a direct result of 
the water leak. Im not sure anyone could do that in any case. Its impossible to ask for an 
independent inspection of the kitchen because Mr and Mrs T have had it replaced. Even if it 
were possible, it would be difficult to attribute the damage to a specific cause.
So I have to look at the evidence from all parties and consider what is most likely to have 
happened. And rather than provide a definitive explanation of the damage, I have to decide 
whether or not UKI acted fairly and reasonably in the way they assessed the available 
evidence and came to their conclusion.
UKI visited the property to carry out inspections. Their assessors took the view that the 
damage was a result of gradual deterioration rather than the specific water leak. They 
considered what kind of marks would be left on the units by a one-off leak. And they 
referenced damage which was, in their view, higher on the cabinets than could conceivably 
have been caused by a leak of this size. 
After Mr T made his complaint to them, UKI had the inspection reports and conclusions 
checked by more senior assessors, who came to the same conclusions. So, it would be 
difficult to maintain that UKI hadnt treated the issue seriously and had simply dismissed the 
complaint without due consideration.
Its also true to say that UKIs explanation of the damage isnt far-fetched or entirely 
unreasonable. Chipboard will expand and eventually fail when exposed to water. For that 
reason, its rare  if not impossible  to find companies who would install kitchen units with 
chipboard supports at floor level these days. These will almost inevitably be exposed to 
some water at some point. Mr and Mrs Ts units had chipboard where most modern kitchens 
would have plastic legs. 
Mr T has provided two quotes from companies who inspected his kitchen and offered to 
carry out repair work. 
One of these begins by saying that it would be impossible to match the kickboards, so to get 
a match the doors and other parts would need to be replaced. This doesnt suggest the units 
are beyond repair and need replacing  although the quote does then go on to say the 
(chipboard) carcass legs have blown and so it would be advisable to replace the units 
altogether.
The other does say from the outset that the units need to be replaced due to water damage. 
Although, like the first quote, theres no attempt to scientifically diagnose the cause of the 
damage. In essence, neither builder has been asked to comment on that particular issue.
They both simply say theres water damage to the units and quote for works around 
replacement. The damage they outline differs in its extent  one refers only to the legs being 
blown  and they dont offer comment as to the most likely cause of the water coming into 
contact with the chipboard. Its arguable that there is an assumption that its the leak that 
caused the damage, but as I say, theres no attempt to evidence that or to rule out other 
possible causes, because thats not what the builders were asked to do.The other source of evidence is the company UKI contracted to carry out the drying out of 
the property after the leak. They visited the property several times.
The report from their initial visit (two days after the leak) says the kickboards of the kitchen 
units are saturated and the bases of the solid built carcasses. And it says these will require 
possible restoration after the drying out is completed.
At a visit around a month later, the company took tests readings from the study area  close 
to the kitchen  and reported the results indicated a pre-loss condition. This indicates there 
was damp or moisture in the area not resulting from the leak.
The final report  around six weeks after the leak  said that attention is required with the 
plinths as still blown as mentioned on above reports. The term plinth when used in 
reference to kitchen units, is usually used as another name for a kickboard.
So, the drying companys reports suggest the kickboards and legs of the units were initially 
saturated  and its not unreasonable to suggest this was as a result of the leak. The first 
report says the kickboards and bases (chipboard legs) might need restoration (the words 
they use are possible restoration). The final report says the kickboards will need attention.
In summary, its reasonable to conclude the drying company  who are independent and 
dont stand to profit or lose depending on the next steps  say the kickboards need repair / 
replacement but they make no mention of any requirement to replace or repair the units 
themselves. 
Taking all of that evidence into account  from UKIs own expert assessors, the builders who 
provided quotes for the work and the drying company  I dont think it was unreasonable for 
UKI to conclude that they didnt need to replace the kitchen units.
After UKI made that position clear to Mr and Mrs T, they did then provide further evidence  
particularly about the dark staining to the chipboard units, which appears to have been 
caused by mould.
UKI sought to arrange a further visit, so that they could confirm  or otherwise  their 
conclusions up to that point. It was then that Mr T advised them that hed had the whole 
kitchen stripped out and replaced.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs T wanted their kitchen repaired / replaced as soon as 
possible, given that they had children in the house and were worried about the mould. 
However, that did mean there was no possibility of a further inspection  possibly in more 
depth  which might have allowed further evidence to emerge about the extent and cause of 
the damage.
 
I cant see that UKI had any other option at that point than to refer back to the existing 
evidence and opinions. And it was that evidence and those opinions that led them in the first 
place to determine that replacement of the kitchen units wasnt covered. That being the 
case, its not surprising their opinion didnt change.
Where a customer makes an insurance claim, the onus is on them to prove that theyve 
suffered damage or loss as a result of an insured event. If the insurer then wants to decline 
the claim on the basis of an exclusion or condition in the policy, its for them to prove that 
exclusion or condition applies. In this case, theres no doubt there is some damage to Mr and Mrs Ts kitchen units. 
However, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to conclude  on the basis of the 
available evidence  that Mr and Mrs T hadnt demonstrated that the cause of that damage 
was the water leak. 
This was a kitchen of a certain age, which had an outmoded design (chipboard legs) which 
potentially carried a risk of water damage just through every day use and cleaning of the 
kitchen.
Im also satisfied, on balance, that it wasnt unreasonable for UKI to conclude that the 
damage wasnt so severe as to demand a complete stripping out and replacement of the 
kitchen units. Again, I refer in particular here to the final report provide by the drying 
company.
So, Im satisfied on balance that UKI havent acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr and 
Mrs T in the way theyve handled their claim or in the cash settlement theyve offered for the 
damage to Mr and Mrs Ts kitchen.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman