DRN-1221884
The complaint
Ms R complains about how Starling Bank Limited handled a disputed transaction on her 
account, and the level of customer service she received from them.
What happened
Ms R says that in June 2019 she tried to buy something through a link on a social media 
website for $1.95 but was charged an extra $46.95 for an unwanted service. She says she 
didn't know about this additional charge until after her order had been placed. 
Ms R says she immediately got in touch with Starling Bank Limited to cancel the transaction. 
But that Starling staff were unhelpful, rude and refused to do a chargeback. 
Ms R says she also contacted the merchant straight away but struggled to get a response 
from them, although she had an order confirmation email which said she could cancel within 
14 days. She says the merchant didnt respond to her until 12 days later, when they let her 
know the order had already shipped and they refused to refund her money. Ms R says that 
after she threatened to report the merchant, she was refunded in full.
Starling say that when Ms R first got in touch in with them, immediately after placing the 
order, they referred her back to the merchant to try and get a refund. They say Ms R was 
told that they could do a chargeback if the merchant didn't respond. And that when Ms R got 
in touch again to say she hadn't received a response from the merchant, Starling reviewed 
the online order Ms R had made. Starling say the screen shots of the online transaction 
showed the additional charge on the order screen prior to Ms R placing the order. And that 
on that basis they couldn't challenge the transaction, so Ms R would need to dispute the item 
directly with the merchant. But they placed a merchant block so no further payments could 
be taken from Ms Rs account. 
Starling accepted that they could've shown more empathy in the first call Ms R had with 
them, and that Ms R hadn't received the level of service they would expect. As such they 
apologised and said feedback would be provided internally so any training gaps could be 
addressed and improvements could be made going forward.
Ms R wasn't happy with the response from Starling and brought her complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Ms R's complaint and didn't uphold it. They said Ms R could 
request a chargeback but that Starling weren't obligated to raise it. Also that Starling weren't 
unreasonable in asking Ms R to contact the merchant first to seek a refund. They said 
listening to the calls Ms R had with Starling staff, they didn't feel the staff were rude and 
didn't recommend that Starling needed to do anything further.
Ms R disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying there were additional calls that 
Starling hadn't provided to us. She felt that the online order was a scam and that Starling 
hadn't treated it as such. Ms R remained unhappy with how Starling staff had dealt with her, 
so the case was passed to me to review and issue a decision.Ms R was able to provide us with details of the dates and times she called Starling, and 
Starling provided us with the two additional calls Ms R had with them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms R feels that she was scammed by the merchant who offered this online 
product. But as Ms R has been fully refunded by the merchant, Ill only be looking at how 
Starling has dealt with Ms R as I couldnt fairly ask Starling to also provide a refund. And 
from what Ive seen Im persuaded that Starling has acted reasonably in how it dealt with Ms 
R and Ill explain why. 
Having listened to the calls, Ms R got in touch with Starling within half an hour of having 
completed the online order. I understand that she was very concerned about the additional 
charge being taken out of her account, but I dont think Starling acted unreasonably in asking 
her to give the merchant more time to respond and to see if she could get a refund directly 
from them. 
From what Ive seen once Ms R got back in touch with Starling to let them know the 
merchant wasnt responding to her, Starling looked into her online order within a few days. In 
this case they reviewed the information that was available to Ms R using screen shots from 
when she made her order. Starling felt the information about the additional charge was 
shown on the screen prior to Ms R placing her order. As such they felt that Ms R had been 
made aware of and agreed to the charge, and that a chargeback was unlikely to be 
successful.
There are specific chargeback reasons that Starling would be required to use, and if they 
think theyll be successful theyll submit the claim. But they arent obligated to raise or pursue 
a chargeback if they dont think they have a reason chance of success, or if they dont think 
it meets the requirements of a chargeback claim under the schemes rules. Based on what 
Ive seen I dont think Starling has acted unreasonably in not raising a chargeback for Ms R 
in these circumstances. 
Ms R is also unhappy with how Starling staff talked to her, saying they were rude and 
unhelpful. Ive listened to all the calls and one of the calls with a manager at Starling 
wasnt handled as well as it should've been. He prematurely threatened to end the call and 
hung up on Ms R abruptly. But I think a lot of Ms Rs dissatisfaction with the staff and the 
reason she felt they were unhelpful is due to them not agreeing to refund her money and 
telling her to deal directly with the merchant. But as Ive already explained I dont think that 
was unreasonable as Starling wasnt obligated to raise a chargeback for her.
Its good to see that Starling agree the call with their manager couldve been handled better, 
and in the circumstances I think their apology along with their commitment to provide 
feedback and training to prevent this happening in future is a reasonable resolution to this 
complaint. I understand that Ms R is looking for a monetary award, but I dont feel the level 
of customer service was poor enough to warrant this - so I wont be asking Starling to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman