DRN-1851491
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the repairs done by The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) following a home insurance claim for repairing a leaking pipe and 
water damage.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr B discovered water coming through the floor of his studio, an out 
building next to his home. He thought initially it was weather related but he reported it to 
NFU as he thought there was a leak. NFU employed a leak detection company who found 
that there was a leak in an underground soil pipe. The repairs were carried out by 
contractors and the reinstatement consisted of removing some of the floor screed, renewal 
and replacement of skiting board and architrave and patch plastering the walls.
Mr B had made an earlier complaint about delay for which he was paid £100. When the 
repairs were complete he advised NFU of several snagging issues. These were dealt with  
except for one issue, that there was still damp appearing in the walls. Also the external door 
had expanded and wasnt fitting into the frame. NFU sent out its loss adjusters to investigate. 
They noted that the damp proof course DPC) wasnt laid fully under the courses of bricks 
either side and that there were cracks in the pointing. It said NFU wasnt responsible for this, 
it being a pre-existing lack of maintenance problem. 
Mr B obtained a report from an independent surveyor. He came to the same conclusions 
about the DPC as NFU. He noted water staining from the previous water leak, but didnt say 
specifically that it was responsible for the new damp area.. He recommended taking up the 
floor and installing a full DPC and replastering the walls with a damp proof mix.
On referral to this service our investigator sad that NFU had acted reasonably and that the 
issue didnt appear to be related to the work NFU had done.
Mr B didnt agree, pointing out that he hadnt had any trouble with damp before the work was 
carried out. He also said rain was unlikely to enter the door area or the pointing as there was 
a large overhang.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be frank, I dont think theres much difference of opinion as to the cause of the later 
damage. It appears to be related to a possible defective DPC, not finished properly at the 
edges. NFU also referred to the height of the DPC which it said was too low above ground 
level, and to the possible ill-fitting door.
Mr Bs surveyor pointed to the previous water leak but didnt say whether this was related to 
the current damage. Whilst he recommended a damp proof be applied, he didnt say 
whether the areas of patch plaster the contractors carried out were faulty. 
The question to be decided is whether NFU is responsible for remedying the problem, as it 
had done works to the area where the damp was found.
First of all, it has to be accepted that the area was dried out properly - there are drying 
certificates to that effect. So, barring another leak, logically the damp must be ground 
moisture coming up through the DPC or from rain. Mr B said that that part of the wall is 
protected from rainfall by a large overhang.
I asked NFU what work its contractors did to this area since the schedule allowed for the 
provision of a DPC. It said that the work in the entrance hallway entailed removing and 
replacing approximately 1.5m of floor screed, removal and replacement of some internal 
architrave and skirting board, hacking off and patch plastering of walls for target drying 
purposes, then redecoration. The only DPM that was installed was a strip directly beneath 
the external door, when it was found that the door was proving problematical by allowing 
moisture to migrate into the hallway from outside. It explained that the screed was removed 
in part, not the concrete floor.
So as NFU wasnt responsible for the likely defective DPC, and only carried out patch 
plastering of the walls, and I dont think its responsible for putting right the current damp 
problems experienced by Mr B. It appears that these can only be resolved by the installation 
of a new DPC, damp-proof plastering the walls, and refitting the door.
I appreciate that the damp wasnt evident before. I can only say that it hasnt in my view 
been traced to anything NFU did when repairing the pipe and reinstating the floor.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman