DRN-4331478
The complaint
Mr F complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly declined 
his claim for the theft of his car, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F reported his car stolen on 28 December 2022. He explains that it was taken from 
outside his parents house. He made a claim to Advantage. In February 2023 it declined his 
claim. Mr F says the reasons given for the decline decision were generic and so he 
complained.
In its decline letter Advantage says Mr F had broken the terms of his policy and refers to a 
fraud condition. In its final complaint response Advantage says it found conflicting 
information and decided to repudiate his claim due to fraud misrepresentation. 
Mr F thought hed been treated unfairly and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says Advantage had shown itd investigated Mr 
Fs claim and shown discrepancies in the information hed provided. Based on this evidence 
he didnt think it had treated Mr F unfairly when relying on its policy terms to decline his claim 
for the reasons it gave. 
Mr F disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
It has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him. But Ill 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The policy terms Advantage highlights in its decline letter say:
Fraud 
You must not act in a fraudulent manner. If you, or anyone acting for you:  Knowingly 
provide information to us that is not true  Mislead us in any way, including about who is the 
main user of the Car, in order to get insurance from us, obtain more favourable terms or 
reduce your premium  Make a claim under the Policy knowing it to be false or fraudulently 
exaggerated in any respect  Submit a document in support of a policy or claim knowing the 
document to be forged or false in any respect  Make a claim for any loss or damage caused 
by your wilful act or with your knowledge. Then, depending on the circumstances:  Your 
Insurer may be entitled to refuse responsibility for the claim to which the alleged fraud or 
falsehood relates. They may also be entitled to cancel or void the Policy without refunding 
your premium  All other policies you have entered into through us, to which you are 
connected (including van, bike and home insurance), may be cancelled and your Insurer will 
only give you a pro-rata refund  Your Insurer may inform the police of the circumstances of 
the claim.
It's this policy condition that Advantage says Mr F had breached. 
It isnt my role to decide whether a fraudulent act has been committed. That is a decision for 
a court to make. My role is to consider whether Advantages consideration of Mr Fs claim 
was conducted fairly and reasonably and according to his policy terms and conditions. 
I think Advantages decline letter and final complaint response couldve been more specific 
to inform Mr F why his claim was repudiated. It set out the exclusion terms it relied on. But it 
didnt clarify what information it had found discrepancies with. 
Ive read the email exchanges between Mr F and Advantage. In February 2023 Advantage 
says Mr F confirmed no additional keys had been made. However, an investigation of his 
key fob confirmed it was manufactured in 2022. But the car was built five years earlier in 
2017. Mr F responded to this point to say hed made a claim through Advantage in July 
2022. This was after his car keys had been stolen. He confirms his key and locks were 
replaced at this time. This explains the discrepancy with the key manufacturing date.  
I can see that Advantage obtained a copy of the repairers records from Mr Fs claim in July 
2022. This confirms the locks were changed and new keys were provided. This supports 
what Mr F says. However, the records show that two keys were provided in 2022. Whereas 
Mr F told Advantage that hed received only one key fob. Hed also said that he received 
only one key when he bought the car.
Ive read the report that followed Advantages assessment of Mr Fs key fob. The report says 
the key was last used on 21 December 2022. However, I can see that Mr F told Advantage 
that hed last driven his car, to his parents house, on 26 December. Although in a 
subsequent email he says he last drove to his parents house on 25 December. 
Mr Fs car was reported as having been stolen on 28 December. Because the key data show 
it was last used either four or five days prior to when Mr F says it was used, Advantage had 
concerns with the accuracy of the information hed provided. 
I can see that Advantage asked Mr F on several occasions where his other key was. Mr F 
maintained that hed only ever had one key for his car. This was the case when he bought it, 
and after the locks had been changed in 2022. However, if this was the case then the key 
data should show the last use was on either 25 or 26 December. These are the dates Mr F 
said he had last used his car prior to the theft. 
Mr F has since explained that he can struggle to recall dates and days, which may have 
contributed to discrepancies in the information he provided. He says Advantage has 
consistently applied repetitive questioning from the outset of his claim. And for each contact 
a different agent was used. Mr F says he doesnt think Advantage has clearly explained 
which parts of his policy he violated to decline his claim. He says the existence of a second 
key should be deemed irrelevant in this situation.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr Fs testimony and remaining evidence shows. Its not 
clear why, if Mr F only had one key, that the data shows he last drove his car earlier than he 
said he did. I note his comments that he may have been confused when providing this 
information. But this is a significant discrepancy. Mr F told Advantage hed driven his car to a 
friends house on 26 December. He also said he drove to his parents house on 25 
December. If the last time hed driven the car was on 21 December, I dont think its 
reasonable to accept he wouldve given the answers that he did.  I note Advantages comments that there was no broken glass or other debris to indicate 
force was used to take his car. The indication being that its possible another key was used 
to gain access to the car and drive it away. 
Having considered all of this I can understand why Advantage had concerns about the 
accuracy of the information Mr F had provided. His policy terms says that if its thought the 
information he provides isnt true then Advantage is entitled to refuse responsibility for the 
claim. This is what it has done here. 
Im sorry Mr F has suffered a loss as a result of his car being stolen. But I dont think 
Advantage treated him unfairly when relying on its policy terms to decline his claim. So, I 
cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman