DRN-4123095
The complaint
Mr H complains about delays following an application to open a credit card with Sainsburys 
Bank Plc to complete a balance transfer. 
What happened
Mr H applied for a credit card with Sainsburys Bank on 22 November 2022 with the aim of 
completing a 0% balance transfer. The application was referred by Sainsburys Bank for 
additional checks and wasnt approved until 11 January 2023. During that time, Mr H 
incurred interest payments with his existing credit card providers. 
During the application process, Mr H says he regularly contacted Sainsburys Bank for 
updates and to try and move the process along. Mr H has explained there were long wait 
times and that the service provided was poor. 
On 11 January 2022 Sainsburys Bank fully activated Mr Hs credit card and he was able to 
subsequently transfer balances from other businesses.
Mr H complained and Sainsburys Bank issued a final response on 30 January 2023. 
Sainsburys Bank said the application had been processed in November 2022 and a PIN 
issued to Mr H but that the process of sending the card had been delayed whilst a review of 
the account was completed. Sainsburys Bank added that after Mr H received the card he 
was unable to register for online banking or use the account because the review was 
ongoing. Sainsburys Bank added that Mr H was able to register for online banking on 12 
January 2023 and complete the balance transfer process. 
Sainsburys Bank apologised for the delay and offered Mr H £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Sainsburys Bank also agreed to cover the interest payments Mr H 
had incurred on receipt of statements to show his loss. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was reviewed by an investigator. The 
investigator thought Sainsburys Bank had made a fair offer to resolve Mr Hs complaint and 
didnt ask it to take any further action. Mr H asked to appeal and requested a refund of the 
balance transfer fee he paid of £52.25 and a higher award for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. As Mr H asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I can understand why Mr H was frustrated by the lack of progress with his credit card 
application and can see he ultimately incurred interest with his other providers as a result. 
Sainsburys Bank has explained Mr Hs application was automatically referred for a review 
by its systems. Sainsburys Bank added that it reviews referrals of this nature in date order 
but accepted that had impacted how long it took to complete Mr Hs application. I appreciate 
Mr Hs sense of frustration at the lack of progress, but businesses are free to assess 
applications in line with their processes. And Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank has confirmed it 
needed to complete a review of Mr Hs application before it could complete it. 
Whilst Im unable to agree Sainsburys Bank acted unfairly by carrying out additional checks, 
I can understand why Mr H found the process longwinded and inconvenient. And it appears 
Mr Hs calls werent handled as well as they couldve been at times and that he found 
contact with Sainsburys Bank to be difficult. Given the time taken to complete the review 
and service provided, I agree its fair for Sainsburys Bank to recognise Mr Hs 
inconvenience. 
Mr H has explained he incurred interest as a result of the delay. But Sainsburys Bank has 
already confirmed its willing to cover that cost to Mr H. If he hasnt done so already, Mr H 
can forward the statement evidence to Sainsburys Bank directly or our investigator so the 
refund of interest can be paid. As Sainsburys Bank has agreed to cover Mr Hs costs, there 
has been no loss to him as a result of the delay with his application. Im satisfied Sainsburys 
Banks offer to cover Mr Hs interest is fair. 
Mr H requested a refund of the balance transfer fee which was £52.25. But our approach to 
compensation is to try and place the consumer back into the position they would have been 
in had no errors been made. Here, the balance transfer fee forms part of Mr Hs credit 
agreement with Sainsburys Bank and would always have been payable. So Im unable to 
agree waiving or refunding the balance transfer fee is a fair way to resolve Mr Hs complaint. 
Ive considered the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H during the application 
process. I agree the process took longer than normal and can understand Mr Hs growing 
frustration. And I understand Mr H found contacting Sainsburys Bank to be frustrating and 
the service provided to be poor. Ive considered everything Mr H has told us about the 
impact of the issues raised. Whilst I understand my decision is likely to disappoint Mr H, Im 
satisfied the offer of £200 is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused during 
the application and delays experienced. To put it another way, £200 is very much in line with 
what I wouldve told Sainsburys Bank to pay, had no offer been made already. 
As Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to increase the award. 
My final decision
My decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman