DRN-3625750
The complaint
Mr E is complaining that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt offer him the option 
of closing his Help to Buy ISA over the phone or online. 
What happened
Mr E held a Help to Buy ISA with NatWest. When he wanted to close his ISA, he found he 
could only do so by post, or by visiting a branch. Mr E closed the ISA by post and the funds 
were transferred to his account with a different business.
Mr E complained to NatWest. He said he thought the closure process discriminated against 
customers with physical or mental disabilities. He asked NatWest to refund his stationery 
and postal costs and compensate him for the distress and inconvenience.
NatWest issued a final response letter to Mr E. They said, in summary, that they only offer 
the option to close a Help to Buy ISA by phone or online if a customer holds an existing 
account with them for the funds to be transferred into  and Mr E doesnt. They said the 
correct process had been followed to close Mr Es ISA in line with their closure policy for 
Help to Buy ISAs. They explained that customers with vulnerabilities could speak to their 
specialist support team about any individual needs.
Mr E remained unhappy with NatWests response and brought his complaint to us. He 
explained to us that he has a mental health condition which makes it difficult for him to visit a 
branch because he tries to avoid crowded areas. But he said he hadnt made NatWest 
aware of this  because they hadnt asked him.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. Mr E didnt agree, so the complaints now 
been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Its our role to resolve individual complaints. We are not the regulator, and we cant direct a 
business to change their policies or procedures. This is a matter for their own judgement. 
Ive looked at the page called Managing your Help to Buy: ISA on NatWests website and 
while I agree with the investigator that the closure process could be more clearly explained, 
it does clarify that a customer must have other products with NatWest to close their Help to 
Buy ISA online or over the phone, as follows:
To close your Help to Buy: ISA via Mobile or Online Banking, you need to have other 
products with us.
To close your Help to Buy: ISA over the phone, you need to have other products with us. 
NatWest have also sent us screenshots which show that when a customer requests to close 
their Help to Buy ISA online, theyre asked if they have other accounts  and if the answers 
no, theyre directed to close the ISA in a branch or by post. So overall Im satisfied this is 
indeed NatWests policy, and theyve not made a mistake by telling Mr E he couldnt close 
his ISA online or over the phone.
Mr E says he believes NatWest are discriminating against customers with physical or mental 
disabilities by having this closure policy. I can understand why he feels this way. But I cant 
make a legal finding about whether discrimination has taken place  that would be for a court 
to decide. I can only consider whether NatWest have acted fairly and reasonably in the 
individual circumstances of his complaint.
If Mr E had let NatWest know of his mental health condition before closing his ISA then they 
would have had an opportunity to explore if they could offer him any additional support. But 
hes told us he didnt let them know. And while Id expect a business to be mindful of any 
indications that a customer may need additional support, I wouldnt expect them to be 
prompted to ask their customers if they needed support unless there was something in their 
interactions with the business to indicate that they did. Ive not seen anything to make me 
think NatWest should have been prompted to ask Mr E if he needed additional support here. 
So, I wouldnt have expected them to have done anything else. 
I do appreciate that Mr E incurred the cost of postage and stationery by closing his ISA by 
post. Because his condition made it difficult for him to visit the branch, and he was unable to 
close his ISA online or over the phone, the postal route was the only option available to him. 
But I dont think it would be fair to ask NatWest to reimburse Mr Es costs, because they 
werent given an opportunity to explore if things could be done differently in Mr Es case 
before he closed his ISA by post.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E, but I dont think NatWest have treated him unfairly. So Im not 
going to ask them to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman