DRN-4236003
The complaint
Mr S complained because Santander UK plc refused to refund him for payments which he 
said he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 7 July 2022, Mr S contacted Santander. He said hed been away and had returned on 3 
July, and hed seen seven payments on his Santander account which he hadnt made. The 
first was on 25 June and the last was earlier that day, 7 July. The total disputed was £6,800, 
and the payments had been sent to a cryptocurrency platform. Mr S told Santander that he 
didnt recall receiving any scam texts, emails or calls.
Santander didnt agree to a refund, and Mr S complained. In Santanders final response to 
Mr Ss complaint on 28 July, it said that it had taken several factors into account. That 
included the pattern of transactions, and how the payments were made and authorised. 
Santander said that in the interests of fraud prevention it couldnt provide specific details. It 
said that it had tried to contact the recipient organisation in an attempt to recover money, 
and if successful it would let Mr S know.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigators final view was that the transactions could only have been authorised by Mr 
S. He said that Santanders evidence showed that the device used to authenticate the 
payments had been used by Mr S before, to authenticate transactions he didnt dispute. 
Theyd been authorised in the app using Mr Ss registered mobile, which had been 
registered for a year before the disputed transactions. Mr S had said his phone hadnt been 
lost or stolen; that no-one else had the passcodes to either his phone or his app; and that his 
phone was secured by his fingerprint.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that the phone used for the transactions wasnt the phone he 
uses, and he said this could be confirmed if the investigator contacted the phone company. 
He said that if that phone had been used before as Santander said, the investigator had 
been misinformed. Mr S also said that Santanders security systems should have stopped it 
from happening and he said he hadnt been contacted although it was a large amount. 
Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions, and the relevant regulations here 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the 
customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise 
them. So Ive considered whether its more likely that Mr S did or didnt authorise the 
disputed transactions himself.
The mobile used for the disputed payments was registered to Mr Ss Santander account in 
July 2021, a year before the disputed payments. Mr S said that this isnt the phone he has 
and which he uses. He told Santander that hed checked with his phone provider and his 
phone hadnt been cloned and the SIM hadnt been swapped. But the computer records 
show that the mobile which Mr S registered in 2021 was the same one which was used for 
the disputed cryptocurrency transactions in 2022. Mr S may have changed his phone since, 
but that doesnt alter the outcome here.
Mr S also said that his phone hadnt been lost or stolen, and it stayed with him all the time, 
and no-one else knew the passcodes for his phone or banking app. So its hard to see how 
any third party fraudster could have carried out the transactions.
The computer records also show that Mr Ss correct PIN was used to set up the payments. 
There are 10,000 possible combinations of a four digit PIN, so its unlikely that anyone else 
could have guessed it.
So I cant see a way in which any third party who wasnt authorised by Mr S could have 
carried out the disputed transactions. I find that its more likely than not that Mr S authorised 
the transactions himself. If he provided his phone and security details to a known third party, 
that would count as Mr S authorising the transactions. So Santander doesnt have to refund 
him.
Finally, Mr S asked why Santanders security systems didnt prevent the payments, as he 
says he wasnt contacted for confirmation they were genuine. Banks have a number of 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams, and to act in their customers best interests. But a 
bank also has an obligation to process the payments its customers authorise it to make. 
Theres a balance between intervening to prevent fraud, and the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. Here, the evidence about the way the 
transactions were carried out would have indicated that Mr S carried out the transactions 
himself. So I dont think its unreasonable that Santander didnt block the payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman