DRN-3601685
The complaint
Mr B complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) has refused to refund over £13,000 he 
lost as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr B authorised the disputed payments he made to Moonpay 
using his Starling debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to 
the scammers from his crypto wallet). The payments were requested by him using 
his legitimate security credentials provided by Starling, and the starting position is 
that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Starling should have done more to prevent Mr B 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr B has lost over £13,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character 
transaction. It was spread over 8 separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, 
would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character, such that they 
ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that he might have been at 
risk of falling victim to a scam. The payments were not of such an amount, for 
example, that it would represent a significant deviation from the way Mr Bs account 
was normally run. 
I also acknowledge there were occasions where more than one payment was made 
in the same day to Moonpay. But there were never more than two payments made in 
the same day which, even when looked at cumulatively, the values still wouldnt have 
been so significant that they ought to have been regarded as unusual. Two payments 
alone also cannot reasonably be regarded as multiple payments being made in quick 
succession either (which can often be another indicator that a customer is at risk of 
financial harm). Moonpay is also a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange platform, so 
there was no reason for Starling to have suspected that Mr B was at risk of falling for 
a scam by virtue of the payee being a fraudulent merchant, for example. As a result, I 
dont consider there was any obligation under any of the Codes Mr B had quoted for 
Starling to intervene in the payments he made to Moonpay.
Ive also thought about whether Starling could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr B reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered 
via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mr B 
used his debit card to pay a legitimate company (i.e. Moonpay) before the funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to make a 
successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the company he paid 
had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). 
Therefore, I do not think Starling were under any obligation to raise a chargeback for 
Mr B either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, and Im sorry to hear he has
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be
fair and reasonable to hold Starling liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman