The complaint
Mr A says that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) charged interest on a credit 
card transaction that shouldve been interest free for an initial period. 
What happened
Mr A contacted Tesco Bank twice to ask if there were any charges to be applied if he used 
his credit card when buying a car. 
In the first telephone call on 11 October 2019, Mr A asked what the charges would be if he 
made the purchase using his credit card. The advisor told Mr A that if he purchased the car 
using the credit card, and he was paying the car dealer directly for it, this would be charged 
at a rate of 0% until 21 July 2020. The advisor also told Mr A that he should clarify who he 
would be paying, because if the card was used to pay off existing finance, interest and fees 
would apply.
In a second telephone call to Tesco Bank on 16 October 2019, Mr A asked the advisor what 
the charge would be if he used his credit card to pay a lump sum to a finance company. The 
advisor told him it would be 3.99% of the amount paid.
Mr A purchased the car on 21 October 2019. As part of this transaction he paid £2,000 on 
his credit card to a financial services company specifically to clear existing finance on the 
car.
When Mr A complained to Tesco Bank, it explained that the advisor told him in the first call 
interest and fees would apply to any amount used to clear existing finance. It did not uphold 
the complaint.
Mr A then raised the complaint with us and said he wouldnt have proceeded with the 
transaction if he had known he would be charged interest on the £2,000.
Our investigator said, it is more likely than not, Mr A was aware from the first call that any 
payment to a finance company would incur fees and interest. In the second call, the 
investigator agrees the advisor couldve clarified he would also incur interest, in addition to 
the 3.99% charge, but said that Mr A did not ask about interest and that his query was only 
about the cash transaction charge.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view. He says that after the first call he still didnt 
understand what charges would apply if he paid the £2,000 to a finance company. And how 
these differed from a payment to the car dealer. Mr A doesnt feel Tesco Bank treated him 
fairly when it told him on 16 October 2019 a 3.99% charge applied. Mr A says it shouldve 
made it clear interest would apply to a payment to a finance company. Mr A explained that 
Tesco Bank doesnt know he suffers from short-term memory loss, and says that it has a 
DRN-1778594duty of care to explain the charges that apply to a transaction every time and not rely on 
what it had told him previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the two telephone calls Mr A made to Tesco Bank and Ive also seen the 
credit card statements Tesco Bank sent to Mr A immediately after the transaction. Ive 
reviewed the terms and conditions of the credit card, and the notice of variation Tesco Bank 
sent to Mr A in April 2018.
I empathise with Mr A that he has been paying interest on the balance of £2,000, but I must 
consider whether Tesco Bank provided him with reasonable information about the charges 
and interest it would apply. And I must be reasonably satisfied that Mr A was in an informed 
position when he agreed to pay the sum to a finance company.
In this case, Tesco Bank sent a notice of variation to the credit card terms and conditions to 
Mr A in April 2018. This explained that there would be a 3.99% handling fee if a payment 
was used to repay loans as they would now be treated as cash transactions. The credit card 
statements Tesco Bank send Mr A include a section explaining cash transactions incur 
interest from the date debited to the account until repaid in full.
When Mr A spoke with Tesco Bank on 11 October 2019, it provided an explanation of these 
terms. The advisor explained the difference between a cash transaction and an outright 
purchase, then recommended Mr A clarify how the merchant would treat the transaction. He 
said that if it was processed by a finance company, it would incur a 3.99% fee and interest 
would be applied on the balance. 
Tesco Bank had previously sent Mr A a notice of variation, provided specific information 
about cash transaction charges on each of the subsequent credit card statements, and 
provided a further reasonable explanation of the charges that may apply in the first call. I am 
satisfied, on the balance of probability, Mr A had information to make an informed decision. 
And, importantly in my view, the advisor on the first call specifically guided Mr A to clarify 
how the merchant would process the transaction because of the potential impact on him in 
respect of fees and interest.
I agree that when Mr A called Tesco Bank a second time it did not explain interest would be 
charged on the sum he paid. However, Mr A specifically asked what charge he would pay if 
he paid a lump sum to a finance company using his credit card. Ive carefully considered 
whether the advisor should reasonably have known that Mr A was also asking about interest 
that would be charged. In this case I consider it is unreasonable, after such a specific 
question, that the advisor should have gone on to explain that a payment would incur 
interest. I agree, with hindsight, the advisor couldve explained this further, but when she 
explained the charge would be 3.99%, she would not reasonably have known that Mr A 
believed he wouldnt pay interest on this amount. At no point did Tesco Bank tell Mr A hed 
get his borrowing on the card interest-free if he was clearing another loan.
Mr A says that Tesco Bank doesnt know he has short-term memory loss, and that it 
shouldnt rely on the first telephone call. I appreciate that this may cause some difficulties for 
Mr A, but Tesco Bank provided a notice of variation about these specific charges, and it 
includes the information in its statements, so that it is available for customers to review when required. It also specifically guided Mr A to clarify how the merchant would treat the 
transaction and warned that fees and interest would be charged if the sum was used to pay 
off finance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman