DRN-3553041
The complaint
Mr E complains that Shop Direct Finance Company, trading as Littlewoods (Shop Direct), 
lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr E applied for credit with Shop Direct in January 2013. He opened an account ending 
x944 with a credit limit of £750.
Mr E says that Shop Direct shouldnt have provided him with increases in the credit limit. He 
says it didnt take account of his low income at the time and that he had another credit 
account with them, too. He says that if proper checks had been done Shop Direct would 
have seen that his overall debt was increasing. 
Mr E also complains that when there was fraudulent activity on his account Shop Direct dealt 
with this poorly. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. He said that although he thought Mr Es 
credit limit shouldnt have been increased in November 2015 to £1800 from £1400, that this 
made no material difference as Mr Es highest balance had been £1241 so no compensation 
would have been due. He didnt think Shop Direct had done anything wrong in its lending 
decisions. 
Mr E disagreed. He pointed out that Shop Direct had already upheld a separate complaint 
about another credit account (ending x846) he had taken out with Shop Direct, trading as 
Very, on the same day. He intimated that if that complaint had been upheld it made sense to 
uphold this one too.
 As Mr E did not agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
When I reviewed the complaint, I agreed with the overall outcome reached by the adjudicator 
 that no redress was due. But I made that decision for slightly different reasons. I explained 
this to both parties. Shop Direct didnt have any further comments to make. Mr E made a 
number of comments which I address below in my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Mr Es borrowing history and his income and expenditure.
Shop Direct has said that it completed proportionate checks when Mr E opened his 
Littlewoods account. It has provided a copy of the results of these checks. In a separate 
letter to Mr E it sets out the findings of checks made in relation to the opening of the Very 
account. These checks were done on the same day and provides a narrative of the outcome 
of the checks which I have reproduced below: 
At the time the account was opened, we located no evidence of accounts currently in 
default. You were on the electoral roll. You had no mail order accounts and no other 
accounts with SDFC. Your total live credit limit was £870.00. You had nothing to pay on fixed 
term loans. You opened no accounts in the last 6 months. You had no credit searches in the 
month before application and no searches in the last 3 months. In the last 12 months, you 
had 1 communication supplier credit search and no mail order, credit card or finance house 
searches. In the 2 years prior to application, 24 out of 24 payments had been made on all 
accounts. All accounts opened in the last 2 years were up to date. In the 3 months before 
application, all accounts were up to date. In the month before application, all accounts 
opened in the last 2 years were up to date. The most recent CCJ on your credit file was 97 
months before this application (just over 8 years). 
Based on this a credit limit of £750 appeared affordable and Mr E didnt appear to be 
overindebted. Mr E in his response highlighted this passage and asked me to confirm 
whether I took into consideration his overall debt accumulated over the term of credit with his 
Shop Direct accounts. At this stage I have just looked at Mr Es financial situation at the point 
of opening this particular account. Overall, Im satisfied that the checks Shop Direct 
completed were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances and it didnt make an 
unfair lending decision when it opened his account.
Mr E didnt use the account at all until December 2013, at which point Mr E made a 
purchase which exceeded his credit limit. It appears that he immediately made a payment to 
his account to bring it under the credit limit. Mr E continued to make regular payments to his 
account which met or exceeded his minimum repayment until his balance for regular 
purchases was reduced to zero in November 2014. In March 2014 Mr Es credit limit was 
increased from £800 to £1,100 and in August 2014 it was increased to £1,400.
Shop Direct says that before each credit limit increase it would have done checks to ensure 
that the lending was affordable. Shop Direct hasnt supplied record of those later checks, but 
I also havent seen anything to suggest Mr E was having trouble managing his account and 
his repayments. Mr E hasnt been able to supply a copy of his credit file or bank statements 
from that time. So I dont know for sure what Shop Direct might have seen. But looking at the 
way Mr E was managing this account I dont think Shop Direct did anything wrong in 
increasing his credit limit. 
Our adjudicator said that he thought Shop Direct shouldnt have increased Mr Es credit limit 
in November 2015 to £1,800. He thought that as Mr E was using a high proportion of his 
credit limit and was not making significant inroads into the reduction of the balance of his 
account that this indicated the lending was not sustainable for Mr E. 
I disagree. Mr E was making regular payments that met or exceeded the minimum 
repayments. While in May 2015 it appears that Mr Es balance was not reducing this was 
because a purchase he had made using Buy Now, Pay Later terms had become due. Mr E 
had not paid off this lending.
While repayment of the minimum repayments doesnt necessarily demonstrate it was 
affordable, I dont think Shop Direct saw anything that ought to have alerted it to a problem. I 
think it would have been reasonable and proportionate for Shop Direct to have taken steps 
to build a more detailed picture of Mr Es financial situation, but I havent seen anything in 
the evidence provided to suggest that if it had done so it would have realised Mr E wasnt 
able to sustainably meet the repayments on his account. As I have previously explained, Mr E hasnt been able to supply any evidence which might make me conclude differently. The 
account balance was paid off in full in January 2017.
Mr E disagrees with me on the above point and says that I should compare his annual 
income and living costs to see that he would have been left with very little, if any disposable 
income. But I dont have this information for the times when Shop Direct was making its 
decisions about whether to increase Mr Es credit limits, the last one of which that would 
make any material difference to Mr Es complaint being in August 2014.
I understand that Shop Direct had considered and upheld a separate complaint by Mr E in 
relation to his Very account before he complained to this service about his Littlewoods 
account, which was opened at the same time. I realise this may have confused Mr E 
because his circumstances were obviously identical when he did so. The letter from Shop 
Direct which upholds the Very complaint doesnt explain why it has done so, but it offers Mr 
E a full refund of charges and interest from the opening of his Very account in 2013.
I have looked at the administration of Mr Es Very account to see if there is an indication in 
the management of that account which may be relevant to the overall picture of Mr Es 
circumstances between 2013 and January 2017, but I can see nothing of concern. Its clear 
from the Very records that Mr E incurred administration charges from July 2017, slipping into 
arrears and eventually defaulting on the account. But this all happened some months after 
Mr E closed his Littlewoods account and so isnt relevant to this complaint. Mr E reminds me 
in his response that he paid his Littlewoods account in full because fraudulent activity was 
detected, and he wanted to close the account even if it meant he was put in financial 
detriment. However, it was Mr Es choice to resolve matters this way and I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Shop Direct did anything wrong here.
So, although Shop Direct upheld Mr Es compliant and agreed to refund all interest and 
charges on the Very account, this service has to assess complaints on their individual 
merits. In the case of Mr Es Littlewoods account, I dont think Shop Direct acted 
inappropriately in the way it opened or managed the account. So, I dont think Mr E lost out 
as a result of anything Shop Direct did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Mr Es complaint. It follows that Shop 
Direct Finance Company Limited does not need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman