DRN-2984333
The complaint
Mr Y says Phoenix Life Limited (PLL) mismanaged its process for transferring his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to a new provider and that it denied him the customer 
service he was entitled to during the process. He says he incurred a financial loss in terms of 
lost transfer value and lost investment opportunity, and he seeks compensation for both. He 
also claims compensation for distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Evidence is available on the following key events:
Mr Y sought to transfer his SIPP from PLL to a Jarvis/Gaudi (JG) SIPP. He initiated 
enquiries about this in January 2020. Between 26 January and 5 February he looked 
into transferring the SIPP in specie and he says he put the matter on hold at the time 
in order to clarify whether (or not) this could be done. By 5 February JG received 
confirmation from PLL that the SIPP could not be transferred in specie. It appears 
that the transfer resumed on this date. Mr Y has referred to an email he received 
from JG (on this date) confirming submission of the transfer request to PLL through 
Origo (the electronic pension transfer service). 
PLL received the request between 5 and 6 February. Mr Y says one of the issues he 
has is that he was not told the Transfer Value (TV) as of this date and was given the 
impression that the TV could change up to the time of actual transfer. He says PLLs 
letter of 11 February confirmed that the TV was not guaranteed, and that the final TV 
would be calculated using the date it received all the information needed to progress 
the request.
On 13 February PLL sent Mr Y a transfer questionnaire and sent JG an enquiry 
about its schemes Trust and Rules. It received responses to both, from both, by 20 
February. On 27 February it wrote to Mr Y again and invited him to make contact  in 
order to confirm risks and implications associated with the transfer and to inform him 
about the disclaimer he would be required to provide  because he had stated in the 
questionnaire that his transfer request had been made without advice. Mr Y says he 
did not receive this letter. 
PLL says he nevertheless made contact, on 29 February, to complain about risk 
warnings not having previously been covered and to complain about a decline in his 
SIPPs TV. A copy of his complaint refers to his dissatisfaction with the time it was 
taking to process his transfer request (and questions why it had not been completed); 
refers to him learning that PLL needed more information from him and questioning 
why it had not sought that information from him at the outset; and refers to his SIPP 
potentially incurring a loss of £2,000 to £3,000 because of a drop in the markets and 
because of PLLs delay. 
Mr Y has explained that the TV was an issue for him because liquidation of the SIPP 
had become necessary due to an in-specie transfer being unavailable, so the 
fluctuating state of the markets was relevant to the timing of liquidation.
PLL has referred to its communication with Mr Y on 24 March, in which it responded 
to his complaint, updated him on the process, requested his contact for the same 
reasons behind its request of 27 February, and informed him that the value of his 
SIPP was not guaranteed because it was unit linked and therefore exposed to market 
movements. Overall, it did not consider it had behaved unreasonably so it did not 
uphold the complaint at the time.
PLL says it then received notice through Origo, on 26 March, that the transfer had 
been cancelled. It says Mr Y confirmed this over the telephone on 14 April. He says 
he suspended the transfer  and confirmed this to JG  between 23 and 24 March. 
He says during the telephone call with PLL on 14 April he confirmed that he had 
made this decision because of the delay in the process and because of a drop in the 
markets affecting his SIPPs TV. There is also record of a complaint he made to PLL 
on 22 March, prior to the cancellation, which also referred to the delay, and to 
allegations about PLLs failure to liquidate and transfer his SIPP weeks prior (for 
which he sought backdating of the TV) and about PLLs failure to communicate 
directly with him.
Mr Y initiated a fresh transfer request on 23 July 2020, and he refers to contacting 
both PLL and JG in this respect. He says he then had to cancel the request on 30 
July because the markets had dropped again. 
PLL says it received the second request on 24 July; that its process had changed in 
the previous month (June) whereby it no longer needed to address risk/implications 
or request a disclaimer; so the transfer was processed  based on information it 
already received about JGs scheme (and Trust) and based on the transfer 
questionnaire it had already received  and the transfer payment was made to JG on 
7 August. It says the effective transfer date was 24 July, the same date on which the 
request was received, because of the change in its process and that it wrote to Mr Y 
and to JG on 7 August to confirm completion of the transfer. It says it received no 
notice from Mr Y or from JG about any suspension or cancellation of the transfer 
request by that date and that Mr Y did not inform it about the cancellation until his 
emails on 12 and 13 August, after it had completed the transfer. 
Copies of Mr Ys communications to PLL of 12 and 13 August show, mainly, that he 
complained about PLL liquidating and transferring his SIPP to JG despite his 
cancellation of the second transfer request; he referred back to the first transfer 
request and questioned why the effective date for the second was the date the 
request was received but the same approach was not applied to the first (which, he 
suggested, would have altered his decision on the first); and he referred to 
presenting his complaints (about PLLs delays and misinformation) to this service.
There is also evidence of the following  contact by Mr Y to PLL on 1 September 
mainly asking for acknowledgement of his August complaint and querying why PLL 
had not called him as he had requested; and contact on 8 September querying why 
PLL had not responded to his August complaint and 1 September contact. 
PLL sent a holding response on 15 September and then on 23 September it 
addressed the complaint. With regards to the difference, between the first and 
second requests, in setting an effective date it explained that the change of its 
process in June meant the second transfers effective date could be set as the date 
on which the request was received, because it did not have to apply the 
risks/implications/disclaimer process (triggered by Mr Ys request being non-advised) that was previously required. With regards to completing the second request, it 
confirmed that it received no notice about Mr Ys cancellation, hence the completion. 
It acknowledged that completion of the transfer on 7 September was done a day late. 
For that reason and because it had not initially acknowledged Mr Ys concerns, it 
awarded him £125 for trouble and upset. It also confirmed that it had sent JG an 
enquiry about whether the one day delay in completing the transfer had led to a 
financial loss  PLL has shared a copy of this enquiry (also dated 23 September) and 
it says JG never responded.
Mr Y contacted PLL on 3 October to complain about the lack of response to a 
voicemail he had left on 1 October. He contacted PLL again on 5 October to make 
the same complaint and to say he had left another voicemail on this date which had 
not been responded to. He contacted PLL further on 9 October to complain about a 
lack of response to his previous contacts and voicemails. PLL replied on 15 October 
and said it had tried, without success, to contact him on 8 and 9 October.
Mr Y complained further thereafter and PLL issued its final response in January 
2021. The response broadly reflected its previous treatments of the complaint issues. 
In addition, it confirmed that it had no knowledge about whether (or not) JG had 
invested the SIPP after the transfer and was/is not responsible for that; that JG never 
replied to its enquiry about financial loss from the one day transfer delay; and that JG 
never returned the SIPP/funds so the transfer was deemed completed. It also 
apologised for its failure to respond to Mr Ys voicemails (and for two of his calls to its 
contact centre being cut-off) and awarded him an additional £200 for the trouble and 
upset caused in this respect.
Mr Y was not satisfied with the overall outcome of his complaint issues, so one of our 
investigators looked into them. He concluded that the complaint should not be upheld and he 
broadly agreed with PLLs positions (and reasons) on the complaint issues. With regards to 
the second transfer request, he acknowledged evidence of an email from JG to PLL on 16 
August 2020 about cancellation of the request but he considered that this was after the 
transfer had been completed and that there is no evidence of such notice prior to its 
completion. With regards to the customer service element of the complaint, he did not 
consider PLLs award for trouble and upset to be unreasonable and he noted that the award 
was in addition to what had been offered to Mr Y for the one day transfer completion delay.
Mr Y did not accept this outcome. He felt/feels strongly that PLLs customer service and 
communications were significantly lacking and that his experience in that respect warrants 
an additional trouble and upset award. He maintains that PLL misconducted itself in both 
transfer requests by delaying the first, by changing its process in the interim without 
informing him, by processing the second without keeping him updated and then by 
completing the second (and indirectly knowing that the funds had not been invested, given 
JGs email of 16 August seeking to return the funds) without verifying with him what was 
happening. He says he had assumed the second transfer had been cancelled and that the 
SIPP remained with PLL. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Recently and in the course of the referral to an ombudsman, the investigator asked PLL to 
comment on Mr Ys reference to notice from JG, after completion of the second transfer 
request, about cancelling that request. Very recently, he updated Mr Y to say a reply had yet 
to be received and Mr Y appears to have suggested that PLL should be punished for not 
replying to date. In response, the investigator explained that we do not have a punitive remit 
in our service.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator. I do not 
uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
With regards to the most recent matter of PLLs outstanding reply to the investigators last 
query, I endorse the investigators explanation that we do not have a punitive remit in this 
service. There has been cross correspondence between the investigator and PLL in this 
case and whilst some of its past responses have been delayed PLL has nevertheless 
provided responses, so I do not consider that it has ignored the investigators last enquiry. It 
appears more likely (than not) that its reply has been delayed. 
In any case, I do not consider PLLs reply to be necessary for my determination of the 
complaint. The fact is that JGs contact to PLL was made after the second transfer request 
was completed  over a week, it appears, after that completion. As such, PLL had concluded 
its role as transferor in the matter. Below, I will address whether (or not) it misconducted 
itself during this role and I will conclude that, in the main, it did not  so the SIPP was 
reasonably and correctly transferred, upon Mr Ys second request. In this context, and in 
terms of the state of the transferred SIPP after completion of PLLs role, I do not consider 
that a case for PLLs post-transfer responsibility has been established. The transfer was not 
erroneous and upon its completion, the SIPP was for Mr Y and JG to attend to.
The First Transfer Request
I do not consider that PLL committed a wrongdoing in this matter.
Evidence shows that Mr Y was closely monitoring the markets relevant to the holdings in his 
SIPP, especially once it became clear that an in-specie transfer could not be made. It is his 
evidence that part of the reason he cancelled the first transfer request was the movement in 
the markets against his holdings. I consider that this was a legitimate concern for him at the 
time and that he was entitled to consider it a reason to suspend or cancel the request. The 
other reason he has given is that he was dissatisfied with PLLs delay in the process. I do 
not consider this a legitimate reason, on the following grounds:
First notice of the transfer request, received by PLL, was between 5 and 6 February 
(through Origo). Around a week thereafter it sent out the questionnaire to Mr Y and 
sent its enquiries to the receiving scheme, JG. I do not consider this step to have 
been unduly delayed.
A copy of the completed questionnaire shows that Mr Y confirmed that his request 
was non-advised. It is this confirmation that appears to have triggered the additional 
process PLL had at the time, in which it had to engage with Mr Y to address the risks 
in and the implications of his request (and seek a disclaimer). The completed 
questionnaire was received by 20 February and around a week thereafter PLL wrote 
to Mr Y asking him to make contact for the risks/implications/disclaimer purpose. I do 
not consider this step to have been unduly delayed and do not consider that it was an 
unreasonable step, given that it had arisen in response to notice that Mr Y was not 
receiving advice. It was essentially a step designed to serve his interest by clarifying 
his understanding, in the absence of advice, of the risks and implications associated 
with the transfer. I am not persuaded by his argument that this could have been 
addressed at the outset. It was nota live issue at the outset and it appears that it is 
his confirmation of the transfer being non-advised, in the questionnaire (received by 
PLL by 20 February), that prompted this step.Mr Y says he did not receive the contact invitation of 27 February, but I have not 
seen evidence to suggest it was not sent  so I consider that it was. In any case, he 
contacted PLL to complain two days after (on 29 February) and appears to have 
been aware that PLL needed more information from him, as he complained about 
why such information had not been requested at the outset. It is not clear why the 
risks/implications/disclaimer discussion did not follow thereafter. However, PLL had 
sent the invitation on 27 February and Mr Y knew, as of 29 February, that it needed 
more information from him, so I do not consider that fault has been established on 
PLLs part. It replied to his complaint on 24 March and repeated the invitation, then 
two days later it was notified that the transfer request had been cancelled.
The notable period of delay in the first transfer request happened with regards to the 
risks/implications/disclaimer discussion that remained outstanding up to cancellation 
of the request. As I said above, I do not consider that to have been PLLs fault. I do 
not suggest that PLL could not have chased Mr Y about the discussion earlier than 
its reminder of 24 March. It could have done that, but, on balance, I am not 
persuaded that it was obliged to. There is evidence that JG contacted PLL in 
February for an update on the process and that it was told PLL was awaiting contact 
from Mr Y (for the discussion). PLL would reasonably have expected a reminder of 
this to be passed on by JG to Mr Y. There is evidence that it was passed on by JG to 
Mr Y  he has referred to being informed by JG that PLL had further requirements 
of him  which was why he was unhappy that PLL was not communicating directly 
with him. His complaint of 29 February also suggests his awareness that PLL needed 
more information from him and he says JG told him as much. As such, and overall, I 
consider that as far as PLL knew, it had informed both Mr Y and JG about the need 
for a discussion with Mr Y, that PLL would reasonably have expected JG to convey 
the same message to Mr Y and that Mr Y was aware of broadly the same. In this 
context, I do not consider it reasonable to blame PLL for not chasing the matter 
before 24 March.
By 26 March the transfer request had been cancelled. Mr Y suggests he might have 
behaved differently if he knew the effective date for the transfer would have been the 
date the transfer request was received  as it turned out to be the case in the second 
transfer request. He appears to argue that with an effective date of 5 February and 
with the TV dated the same, he would not have cancelled the request. I am not 
persuaded that this establishes a wrongdoing by PLL. It was not in a position to 
progress the request until after it had the requisite risks/implications/disclaimer 
discussion with Mr Y, so it could not have set an effective date until then or 
thereafter. This was not applicable in the second transfer request because its 
process had changed, hence the difference in approach. Like the investigator found, 
PLL was entitled to change that process. Firms can retain reasonable commercial 
discretion, and the right to reasonable application of such discretion, over their 
operations and in the absence of a breach of regulations in PLLs change of process 
in June 2020, I do not consider that it was wrong to apply its reasonable commercial 
discretion to that change. Furthermore, it does not appear to have had prior notice 
that Mr Y would submit another request in the following month, so I do not find 
reason why it would have given him prior notice about this change  or find that it 
was obliged to do so. 
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not consider that PLL behaved 
unreasonably in response to the first transfer request.
The Second Transfer RequestIn a nutshell, PLL committed no wrongdoing in this matter  other than the one day 
completion delay it has conceded. It immediately, on 24 July 2020, processed the transfer it 
had been instructed to perform (and that Mr Y had requested); it had no requirement for a 
risks/implications/disclaimer discussion at the time so it progressed the transfer to 
completion; it completed the transfer on 7 August 2020, a day later than stated in its 
standard procedure; and at no time between these two dates did Mr Y or JG notify it that the 
transfer request had been cancelled. 
In terms of the matter of transfer I do not consider that anything beyond what has been 
summarised above is of equal (or more) relevance. PLL cannot reasonably be blamed for 
completing a transfer it was instructed to perform and was never instructed to suspend or 
terminate. It was able to use 24 July as the effective date because of the change in its 
process. It duly liquidated and transferred the SIPP to JG and, as I said above, thereafter the 
SIPP was for Mr Y and JG to attend to. The investigator invited Mr Y to provide evidence 
that PLL was informed about the cancellation before its completion of the transfer, but no 
such evidence has been presented. Evidence of JGs email to PLL on 16 August 2020 
confirms an occurrence after the event, over a week after the event, so it does not show that 
PLL was wrong to complete the transfer  and, given the absence of wrongdoing on its part, 
I do not accept that PLL was obliged to reverse the transfer or monitor what happened to the 
SIPP thereafter. 
I find no criticism of PLLs award of £125 to Mr Y for the one day delay in completing the 
transfer (and, it appears, also for some of the communication problems up to September 
2020). It is likely that I would not have been persuaded to make any award, or as much an 
award, in the alternative. In the context of trouble and upset and given the facts of his case, 
the one day delay is arguably insignificant  especially as, unknown to PLL, he appears to 
have no longer wanted the transfer around the time it was completed. In the context of 
financial loss, Mr Y would be entitled to compensation for any such loss that can be 
evidenced. However, no evidence of such loss has been presented, so I am not in a position 
to make a finding in this respect.
PLLs communication (or lack of) with Mr Y
PLL committed wrongdoings in this matter and it has conceded that. I have paid attention to 
the repeated requests for return telephone calls made by Mr Y in August and September 
2020, and then in October 2020 and thereafter, the majority of which PLL did not meet. Its 
position in this matter is mitigated to a limited extent by the written correspondence it sent 
him between September 2020 and January 2021, but it remains the case that, in the main, 
PLL failed to meet Mr Ys reasonable expectations of customer service and communications. 
It did so by failing to call him as he repeatedly requested, and then by cutting-off two of the 
calls that took place. Mr Y undoubtedly suffered trouble and upset as a result.
Having said the above, I take the view that PLL has essentially awarded a total of £325 to  
Mr Y for the above failings. As I said above, I would not have made a trouble and upset 
award for the one day transfer completion delay, so I consider the initial award of £125 to be 
wholly or mainly related to the lack of communication issue  and the subsequent £200 
award was wholly for that issue. Overall and on balance, I consider that a total award of 
£350 was/is fair compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr Y by the lack of 
communication and customer service he experienced from PLL. It is broadly consistent with 
what this service has awarded for trouble and upset in comparable cases and comparable 
with what I would have awarded him. For this reason, I do not uphold Mr Ys pursuit for an 
additional award. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman