DRN-3435808
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt agree to a payment plan on her credit 
account when she asked for one.
What happened
In October 2020, Mrs B contacted Sainsburys and asked for financial assistance with her 
Sainsburys credit account because her income from work was due to be reduced. After 
discussing Mrs Bs position with her, Sainsburys applied a 30-day hold on the account to 
enable Mrs B to seek financial help from her family so she could keep making at least the 
minimum monthly payments on the account.
Mrs B contacted Sainsburys in November 2020, at the end of the 30-day hold and again 
requested financial assistance from them. Sainsburys agreed to implement a three-month 
payment holiday on Mrs Bs account, which came to an end in February 2021, and during 
which Mrs B didnt make any payments towards the account.
When the payment holiday came to an end in February 2021, Mrs B began making 
payments of £60 per month towards the account. But because Mrs B hadnt reached an 
agreement with Sainsburys to pay that amount, and because the £60 payments were less 
than the minimum monthly payments required on the account, Sainsburys considered the 
account as having fallen into arrears, and reported it to the credit reference agencies as 
such. Mrs B wasnt happy about this, and she didnt feel that Sainsburys had done enough 
to help her when shed first requested it. So, she raised a complaint.
Sainsburys looked at Mrs Bs complaint. But they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards 
Mrs B in how theyd considered her requests for financial assistance and responded to them, 
and so they didnt uphold the merits of her complaint. Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys 
response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Sainsburys 
had acted unfairly towards Mrs B in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance 
regarding the provision of three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who were 
experiencing difficulty meeting the payments due on their credit accounts because of 
financial difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA guidance included 
that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of these payment holidays 
to the credit reference agencies would be suspended, so that an eligible consumer who 
benefited from such a payment holiday didnt have their credit file impacted by doing so.
Not all consumers were eligible to receive these three-month payment plans, and the FCA 
explained that the purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who had been able to 
meet the repayments on their credit accounts without incident until that time, but who were at 
risk of incurring adverse reporting for missed or late payments on their credit files solely as a 
result of the impact of Covid-19. 
The FCA issued further guidance in September and November 2020, extending the time that 
the three-month payment holidays would be available to eligible consumers.
In this instance, Mrs Bs account statements show that she wasnt in arrears when she 
contacted Sainsburys in October 2020 and requested a payment holiday. However, while 
the information available to me confirms that Mrs B requested a payment holiday because 
her work hours were being reduced, it isnt clear whether Mrs B explained to Sainsburys that 
her work hours were reducing specifically because of the impact of Covid-19. 
Mrs B was able to make the minimum monthly payments due on her account for the next two 
months until she was given an FCA prescribed three-month payment holiday by Sainsburys 
in late November 2020. As such, I dont feel it can be reasonably concluded that Mrs B 
incurred any detriment as a result of not being given a payment holiday when she requested 
assistance from Sainsburys in early October 2020, as she potentially should have been.
When Sainsburys did apply the three-month payment holiday to Mrs Bs account in 
November 2020, they sent a letter to Mrs B which confirmed and explained the payment 
holiday, including that the contractual requirement to make at least the minimum monthly 
payments due on the account would start again at the end of the payment holiday term. 
Sainsburys also sent Mrs B a letter in early-February 2021, which explained she would need 
to resume making payments towards the account from 2 March 2021 onwards, and which 
included that Mrs B should contact Sainsburys to discuss her financial position with them 
before 2 March 2021 if she continued to be in financial difficulty.
But Mrs B didnt contact Sainsburys, and she also didnt make the minimum monthly 
payment due on the account  which was approximately £115  but instead made payments 
of £60 towards the account without speaking to Sainsburys for the next few months. This 
meant that when Mrs B did contact Sainsburys again at the end of April 2021, and asked for 
further financial assistance from them, she wasnt eligible to receive a second payment 
holiday on the same basis she had before because her account was in arrears and therefore 
didnt meet the eligibility requirements for the payment holiday as mandated by the FCA.
When Mrs B did contact Sainsburys in April 2021, she explained she didnt have the time to 
complete an income and expenditure assessment with them, as was required by Sainsburys 
at that time to enable them to evaluate what forms of potential financial assistance they 
might be able to offer. Sainsburys contact note for that call records that Mrs B advised she 
would contact them again shortly to complete an income and expenditure assessment, 
which it appears that Mrs B did on 10 May 2021, at which time a payment plan was agreed.
In consideration of all the above, its difficult to conclude that Sainsburys have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably to Mrs B here. Indeed, it appears that Sainsburys did apply an FCA 
prescribed three-month payment holiday to Mrs Bs account as they reasonably should have, 
but that unfortunately, because Mrs B didnt contact Sainsburys to discuss her financial 
position with them before that payment plan ended, her account fell into arrears because she 
didnt make the minimum monthly payments required on the account and hadnt made any 
formal arrangement with Sainsburys to pay anything less.Im aware that Mrs B feels that her mental health has been adversely affected by the 
circumstances surrounding her financial difficulties, and that shed like this service to instruct 
Sainsburys to reduce the balance outstanding on her account as a result. But while I can 
sympathise with Mrs Bs personal position here, its generally the position of this service that 
its considered fair that an account holder should repay a credit balance that they owe. As 
such, this service wouldnt generally instruct a credit provider to reduce an account balance 
as Mrs B would like. And this is especially the case in circumstances such as this, where Im 
satisfied that Sainsburys themselves havent done anything wrong.
What this service would expect would be that Sainsburys would work with Mrs B to help her 
repay the balance outstanding on her account in a way thats affordable for herself, and 
would make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies of any agreed arrangements. 
But I havent seen anything in the information or evidence available to me to suggest that 
Sainsburys havent attempted to work with Mrs B in such a way, which strengthens my 
conviction that Sainsburys havent acted unfairly here.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mrs B was wanting, but it follows from the above that 
I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Sainsburys to take any further action. I 
hope Mrs B will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman