DRN-1658210
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.   
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The policy was taken out in November 2002 
when Mr P applied for the card in one of the banks branches.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed 
saying, in summary, that he didn't want or need the PPI but thought it was something he had 
to have to get the credit card. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint because:
Mr P recalls that he thought he had to have the PPI for his credit card application to be 
accepted. Although earlier he'd told us he didn't really remember much about what was 
discussed because it happened so long ago. Lloyds has provided a copy of Mr Ps 
application form. There was a separate section headed "Optional Features" and equally 
clear options to accept or decline the PPI. And the "yes" box has been ticked. Whilst I can't 
be sure exactly what was discussed, there's nothing in the paperwork to suggest that the 
PPI had to be taken. So, overall, I think Lloyds made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr P 
chose to take it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to make sure it was suitable for him. Hes not 
been able to give us much detail about the other means he would have had to meet his 
repayments if he couldn't work. From what he recalls, he may have received some sick pay 
from his employer, but not more than three months. And he may have had a small amount of 
savings. The PPI would have met his monthly repayments for up to 12 months if he couldnt 
work due to sickness or an accident and covered him if hed become unemployed. So I think 
the PPI couldve been a useful benefit for him. Overall, it doesnt look as if the PPI was 
unsuitable for Mr P based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr P chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr P would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think he would still 
have taken out the policy.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc, does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman