DRN-1435514
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Brewin Dolphin Limited failed to password-protect or encrypt an email 
it sent to her containing a large amount of sensitive personal information. 
What happened
Brewin Dolphin accepted that a failure of its data protection process had allowed the email to 
be sent. It also acknowledged that its subsequent communication with Mrs C about the issue 
had been poor. It offered her £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the matter, but Mrs C 
didn't accept this and referred the matter to this service.   
Our investigator reviewed the matter and concluded that Brewin Dolphin's offer was fair. He 
was satisfied the email had been sent in an unsecured format as a result of human error, 
and he also felt it was reasonable that Brewin Dolphin had limited the disclosure of detail 
about its security systems when explaining what had happened. The investigator said that 
he understood the matter had been of great concern to Mrs C but, as it wasn't apparent that 
the sensitive information had been compromised, he felt Brewin Dolphin's offer was fair. 
Mrs C remained unhappy as she didn't accept Brewin Dolphin's claim that it had a system 
that blocked unencrypted emails given the nature of the email she'd received. She also 
complained that Brewin Dolphin appeared to have logged and investigated a complaint in 
her name without confirming the details of the complaint with her. She was concerned by the 
data protection implications of this and, further, how she could be sure that a comprehensive 
investigation had been completed.  
As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I understand Mrs C's concerns and it was clearly wrong of Brewin Dolphin to allow the sort of 
personal information included in the email to be sent without any form of protection. But it 
has acknowledged this and I'm satisfied it has offered a reasonable explanation of how the 
failure came about. I note Mrs C's point that if Brewin Dolphin has systems in place to 
prevent such an occurrence, how was the email sent to her able to pass through these 
systems. But Brewin Dolphin has explained that this was a case of human error and that the 
issue has been raised with the member of staff involved. 
Ultimately there is always the possibility of failures in any security system where there is an 
element of human interaction, especially while those systems are being developed and 
improved to reflect the changing regulatory environment. While I think it's clear that Brewin 
Dolphin could have been more consistent in the information it provided to Mrs C in response 
to her concerns, I'm satisfied its offer of £250 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I note also Mrs C's concerns about Brewin Dolphin's failure to provide details of the 
complaint it logged on her behalf. As I understand it, she's been provided with copies of 
relevant correspondence and I've seen nothing to suggest that Brewin Dolphin's 
investigation looked at anything other than Mrs C's specific issue with the email being 
unprotected. 
In closing, I'd reiterate the investigator's suggestion that if Mrs C remains concerned, she 
should contact the Information Commissioner's Office, if she's not done so already. As the 
authority set up to uphold information rights, the issues central to this complaint are its area 
of expertise.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint as I consider the 
offer already made by Brewin Dolphin Limited to be fair and reasonable.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman