DRN-2827698
The complaint
Mr R complains that hes missed out on a sum of interest due to him, as a result of 
TSB Bank plcs decision to close his ISA account early. He also says that TSBs offer 
of £100 compensation is not sufficient to make up for the stress he suffered due to the 
way they handled the transfer of his funds to his new ISA provider.
What happened
In December 2020, TSB closed Mr Rs ISA account following a breakdown in their 
relationship. Mr Rs complaint about this was considered under our reference ................. 
.......................... On 11 May 2021, my ombudsman colleague, Ms Giles, issued a final 
decision not upholding Mr Rs complaint. She concluded in the decision that TSBs decision 
to close Mr Rs account, was made in accordance with the account terms and conditions.
Mr R was also unhappy about TSBs actions following the closure of the account, which is 
the subject of this complaint. In particular, he complained that on the closure of his 
account, TSB sent him two cheques, which bounced; TSB failed to action the transfer of 
his ISA to another bank who Ill call, M (which meant to account was closed without the 
ISA first being transferred); and TSB failed to pay all of the interest that Mr R believes was 
due on the ISA.
TSB issued their final response letter on 10 February 2021 not upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. They said theyd advised Mr R that if they received a request to transfer his 
ISA to a new provider before the closure deadline of 29 December, they would ensure all 
interest would be transferred to the new provider, along with the balance. TSB said that 
on 29 December2020, Mr Rs accounts were still open, so they arranged to have them 
closed on 31 December 2020, and sent Mr R a cheque for the balance.
In response to Mr Rs email explaining that he had asked for his ISA to be transferred to a 
new provider, before the closure date, TSB made enquiries and discovered that they had 
received a transfer request from M, to transfer the ISA to them, but an automated process 
had rejected the request. TSB said they hadnt been aware of that prior to the closure of the 
account, so immediately took steps to cancel the cheque and reopen the ISA. They said 
they calculated the interest from 31 December 2020 until 14 January 2021 when the ISA 
was transferred and forwarded that to M.
With regard to Mr Rs request that interest be paid until the maturity date of 10 May 2021, 
TSB said they didnt feel it was appropriate to do so, because theyd taken the decision to 
close the account before that date. They also explained that as Mr R was earning interest 
on his ISA funds with M, continuing to pay him interest to 10 May 2021 would mean he was 
earning interest on the same amount with the two providers.
TSB offered Mr £100 for the frustration and worry he was caused by not transferring his 
ISA prior to the closure deadline for his accounts. 
Mr R wasnt happy with TSBs response, so brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and issued her view on 25 March 2021. 
She explained that she had reviewed what TSB had done to put things right after the 
account was closed and concluded that the £100 compensation offered by TSB was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R didnt agree. He told our investigator that hed received a cheque from TSB in 
December for £78,361.09 and a cheque in January for £78,361.22, which both bounced as 
TSB had cancelled the cheques. He said that TSB clearly hadnt calculated the interest up 
to 14 January 2021 and he felt that the stress hed suffered as a result of TSBs actions, 
should lead to an additional £200 compensation being paid to him. He also explained that 
he had to spend £40 on taxis to bank the cheques which both bounced. He feels TSB 
should reimburse the taxi fares as theyd cancelled the cheques without notifying him. Mr R 
also calculated that TSB owed him approximately £60 interest for the period 1 January 
2021 to 14 January 2021 and said he required interest to be paid to 10 May 2021 at 1.7% to 
make up for the lower interest rate he was being paid on his ISA with M.
Our investigator didnt agree any additional compensation was warranted in the 
circumstances. However, she asked TSB to explain the interest situation with regard to 
the ISA.
TSB clarified that theyd paid 1.7% interest on the ISA funds from 31 December 2020 
to 14 January 2021 as that was the interest Mr R would have received on the monies if 
his transfer had been actioned correctly when it was first sent to TSB. They also 
explained that theyd told Mr R on 15 January 2021, that the cheques were being 
cancelled, which was before he said he took taxis to his local branch (on 27 and 28 
January 2021) so they wouldnt agree to reimburse the taxi fares.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators response to his further queries and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision on his complaint. He also asked for full calculations on the interest 
to be provided to explain why he wasnt owed any additional interest.
Our investigator asked TSB for a breakdown of the interest Mr R had earned from when the 
ISA began. TSB asked if Mr R had complained that the interest applied to his ISA was 
incorrect and if so, said theyd need to set up a new complaint for Mr R about that. Our 
investigator explained that it wasnt a new complaint, at this stage it was just a request for 
information. TSB explained that their final response letter addressed Mr Rs complaint 
about the closing interest added to his ISA, which theyve provided. However, as Mr R 
hadnt queried the interest applied for the full period for when the ISA was held, they felt it 
would be appropriate to set up a new complaint so they could have eight weeks to 
investigate it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, Ill explain why.
I agree that TSB has made some mistakes, in the way theyve dealt with Mr Rs ISA funds, 
following the closure of his account. However, Im satisfied that TSB has taken the 
necessary steps to put things right for Mr R, where it should have done. Ive addressed 
each of Mr Rs complaint points under the following headings, below: Request to transfer 
funds not actioned; Cheques being cancelled without notice; Expectation of receiving 
interest payments to 10 May 2021; Blocked access to account information; and 
Explanation of interest paid to 14 January 2021.Request to transfer funds not actioned
I agree that TSB didnt deal with the request from Mr Rs new ISA provider to transfer the 
funds, correctly. Its actions caused Mr R stress and inconvenience and cost him 14 days 
worth of interest payments. However, Im of the view that, in paying Mr R, £100 for the 
stress and inconvenience hed suffered, and in paying him the interest he would have 
earned on the ISA funds, if theyd been transferred to M in time, for the period 31 
December 2020 to 14 January 2021, TSB will have done enough to put that mistake right 
for Mr R. If TSB havent paid Mr R the £100 theyd offered, they should do so promptly.
Cheques being cancelled without notice
Mr R has complained that TSBs actions led him to spend £40 on taxis, unnecessarily, to 
deposit the cheques in the branch, after theyd been cancelled (without notice, in his view). 
However, TSB has a different recollection of these events. Where the evidence is 
inconsistent or incomplete, as it is here, I make my decision based on what I think more 
likely than not, happened. Taking account of all the evidence in relation to this point, I think 
its more likely than not, that TSB did inform Mr R, before he took taxis to the branch, that 
the cheques would be cancelled, and the funds would be transferred to M, on receipt of a 
transfer request from M. I agree that it was inconvenient for Mr R to receive the funds via 
cheque from TSB, however, as Ive already mentioned, Im satisfied that the steps TSB 
took, in offering Mr R compensation of £100 and paying interest on the funds to 14 January 
2021, were sufficient to put this right for him. And as Mr R likely knew of the steps TSB 
would take, before going to the branch later on in January, I dont agree that TSB needs to 
reimburse Mr R for those taxi fares.
Expectation of receiving interest payments to 10 May 2021
With regard to Mr Rs expectation that TSB pay him interest to 10 May 2021, I agree with 
our investigator that this wouldnt be appropriate in his circumstances. TSB no longer hold 
Mr Rs ISA funds, so have no obligation to pay any interest to him on those funds. And, Mr 
R has received interest from M, on those funds for that period.
Blocked access to account information
Mr R was also frustrated at not being able to access his online banking to view his account 
history with regard to his TSB ISA. However, TSB explained that the reason Mr R wouldnt 
have been able to access any information about his accounts, using their Internet Banking 
System was that only open accounts can be viewed using their online service. I think TSB 
have provided a reasonable explanation on this point, and dont require them to do 
anything further.
Explanation of interest paid to 14 January 2021
Lastly, with regard to Mr Rs request for an explanation of the interest paid, I would 
clarify that TSB have sent a calculation to our service, of the additional interest paid to 
14 January 2021. Our investigator confirmed to Mr R that interest had been paid to 14 
January 2021, but she didnt provide details of the calculation, which I will now share. 
Their calculations show that interest of 1.7% was paid on the capital sum of £77,514.99 
giving a gross interest amount of £54.15 and a net interest amount of £43.32.
Mr R, through our investigator, has asked TSB to provide him with details of the interest 
earned on the ISA from its opening date to the date it was transferred to M. As seven weeks have now passed since that request was made, TSB should now provide that 
information to Mr R, promptly. If Mr R is unhappy with the information he receives from 
TSB, he should explain what aspects of the calculations he thinks are wrong and raise a 
complaint about that with TSB. If he is unhappy with the response TSB provides to his 
complaint, he is then free to refer his complaint about that to this service.
For the reasons Ive detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint or require TSB Bank plc 
to take any further steps in relation to Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
Carolyn Harwood
 
Ombudsman