DRN-3476054
The complaint
Mr R complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr R is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around February 2014, Mr R was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr R decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In May 2015, the CMC made a claim on Mr Rs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr R to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £7,190 to mislead Mr R as when the 
interest was added, the total cost was £10,526.30; and
Mr R was promised a tax-free year one benefit of £872.88 but was not made aware 
that after making the loan repayments there would be an annual deficit of £483.62; 
and
the system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments; and
the system would not cost Mr R a penny.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr R or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator thought P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr R and that his complaint should be upheld. Our investigator said:
the system energy generation within the quote differed from that in the MCS 
certificate; and
the quote included a graph suggesting the systems FIT earnings and energy savings 
would exceed the cost of the system; and
the quote didnt allow Mr R to compare the loan repayments to the FIT payments; 
and 
the quote doesnt include the cost of the finance; and
a table within the quote doesnt compare the system benefits with Mr Rs loan 
repayments; and
the monthly loan repayment in the quote was for less than that in the loan agreement 
which was incorrect and misleading.
Our investigator thought Shawbrook should recalculate Mr Rs original loan based upon the 
known and assumed savings and income from the system, so that he pays no more than 
that amount.
Shawbrook didnt agree with the investigators view and added the following comments:
a copy of a subsequent signed quote page shows that the expected energy 
generation did match that within the MCS certificate; and
the difference in loan repayments relates to Mr Rs decision to pay a smaller deposit 
than originally agreed which is detailed within the loan agreement.
Mr R accepted our investigators findings.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
I reached a different outcome to that of our adjudicator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 13 April 2022  giving both Mr R and Shawbrook the opportunity to 
respond to my findings below before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr R paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr R could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr R and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Rs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out that the cash price of the goods.Mr R has said that the cost of the system was documented as £7,190. He has said that this 
was done to mislead him as this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, 
so hid the true cost of the system, £10,526.30.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr R makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£7,190. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of the 
system was £7,190. The total amount of credit is £5,392.50 and goes on to show that the 
total amount payable would be £10,526.30.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £7,190, it would cost Mr R 
more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Mr R has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and whether 
this supports what Mr R has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr R could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr R could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £376.47. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr R could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity saving is £163.87 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chose by Mr R the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £904.87. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed System Performance and Returns with three table showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mr R entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £56.91. For each year of the 10-
year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that 
figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £56.91, to give an 
average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan 
repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr R could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings, would be sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments. But, Im not satisfied that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would 
be covered by the FIT income alone.
Its relevant that the loan repayment of £56.91 within the quote differs from the figure of 
£72.74 within the loan agreement. P have explained that this resulted from Mr Rs decision 
to reduce the deposit amount he paid at the outset resulting in a higher loan amount than 
first quoted. P confirm that a further quote was issued although theyve been unable to 
provide a copy.
Having considered the above, it appears that the quote suggests that the higher loan 
repayment amount would still be covered by the combined income and additional savings 
within the quote. 
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr R that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly FIT income 
and energy savings from the system, and the effect on that of subtracting the monthly loan 
repayment. Im satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the FIT 
income alone from the start, I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference 
between the expected income and monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr R was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 10, the overall benefits that Mr R could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr R that the system would pay for itself by 
year 10, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr R. The MCS certificate sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 2,285.25 kWh a year. The original quote suggested a slightly lower figure of 
2,186.25 kWh. Whilst I acknowledge this difference, given the figure in the quote is lower, 
this means that Ps figures actually underestimate, rather than overestimate the benefit when 
compared to the MCS certificate.
I have looked at Mr Rs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,313.65 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected. Further, as I mentioned above, P 
estimated a FIT income in the first year of £376.47. Mr Rs FIT statements suggest that the 
system generated around £445 in the first year. So, Im also satisfied that the FIT income Mr 
R received in the first year exceeded that estimated by P.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable. P used Office of 
National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. I dont consider it 
unreasonable for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial 
income Mr R couldve expected to receive from the system. 
Energy Savings
In order to assess the level of savings achieved by the solar system installed at Mr Rs 
property, I first need to establish his energy usage before the system was installed. This is 
then compared to the energy usage after the system installation. This service asked for 
copies of Mr Rs energy statements for the periods before and after the system installation. 
Unfortunately, the CMC advised that this information isnt available. As a result, Im unable to 
establish whether the energy savings achieved differ from those estimated in Ps solar 
quote.
As Ive mentioned previously, the FIT income received by Mr R in the first year exceeded 
that estimated by P. So, its reasonable to conclude the actual energy savings required to 
achieve the overall returns estimated by P in year one would be less. But in the absence of 
specific energy usage information, I cant reasonably say that Mr R has actually experienced 
any financial loss here.
The Sales Presentation
Concerns have been raised that as part of Ps sales process, pressure was exerted upon Mr 
R to enter into the agreement to purchase the system. Im aware of previous historic 
allegations which were investigated by Trading Standards. This service has been provided 
with assurances that those concerns were addressed and remedied, in co-operation with 
Trading Standards.
Im also satisfied that the quote formed a central part of the sales process and wouldve 
been discussed with Mr R. So, Ive not been persuaded that the salesperson wouldve said 
something that would then have been contradicted by the quote. To support this, Im 
satisfied that the Mr R was sent the quote, had time to consider it and to raise any issues 
prior to installation.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr R to enter 
into the contract for the system. Im also unable to find that Mr R suffered any financial loss 
and have therefore found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. 
Shawbrook have confirmed that they have nothing further to add.
The CMC also didnt provide any additional information and asked me to engage with Mr R 
directly. 
Throughout the course of this complaint, the CMC have represented Mr R to both 
Shawbrook and this service. Ive not been made aware that has changed. So, Ive 
considered all the documentation and comments provided by them, including Mr Rs 
recollections of the sales process and the verbal sales presentation. 
Im satisfied that all parties have had every opportunity to provide anything that they feel 
would be relevant. But I havent been provided with anything new to persuade me to alter 
from my provisional decision, so I wont be upholding Mr Rs complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman