DRN-3959252
The complaint
Miss J complains that Santander UK Plc was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss J says she applied for a loan with Santander in order to pay back her debts, but the 
high interest rate has meant she has struggled to make her repayments. Miss J says that the 
loan was unaffordable, and Santander should have realised this. She says the loan has 
caused her financial situation to deteriorate further causing her stress and affecting her 
health.
Santander issued a final response letter in February 2022. It said Miss J applied online and 
was required to make an accurate declaration of her circumstances and income. This was 
then reviewed by an automated system and the loan approved. It said the interest rate was 
clearly set out and it was Miss Js decision to accept this.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought, given the size and duration of the loan 
that Santander should have carried out further checks to get a thorough understanding of 
Miss Js financial circumstances before lending to her. He said if this had happened it would 
have realised that Miss Js income was lower than she had declared and that she had credit 
card debt of around £9,500. He thought that there was a significant risk that Miss J wouldnt 
be able to meet her repayments without having to borrow further.
Santander didnt agree with our investigators view. It said Miss J declared her monthly 
income as £1,700. It said she didnt bank with it at the time and so it wasnt able to verify this 
as would have been the case with a customer who banked with it. Instead, the income was 
verified through a credit refence agency tool. It said its affordability report showed a high 
confidence value for the income and a credit search undertaken at the time didnt raise any 
concerns.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My conclusions were as follows:
Miss J was provided with a £7,500 loan repayable over 60 months. The monthly 
repayments were around £209, and Miss J was required to repay a total amount of 
around £12,542. Given the size and duration of the loan, I think it would have been 
proportionate for Santander to verify Miss Js income and ask her specifically about 
her expenses.
Santander has said that Miss Js income was validated through a credit reference 
agency tool and a high confidence factor received. I have looked through the 
information provided, and Miss Js bank statements show payments from the 
employer she recorded in her application. While the payment amounts arent regular 
considering the two full months of statements I have before the loan was provided, I 
do not find that further verification would have suggested the monthly income figure 
of £1,700 to be unreasonable. That said, even if a lower amount was to be included 
based on the lower months income, I still do not find this changes my decision.
Santander carried out a credit check which showed Miss J had a mortgage with 
monthly repayment of £293 and other existing credit commitments of around £273 a 
month (based on credit card balances of around £7,400 and other borrowings of 
around £1,770). I have seen the results of the credit check in terms of the balances 
outstanding and this supports the numbers used in Santanders assessment. The 
information provided doesnt show Miss Js payment history on her accounts but 
without further evidence to the contrary I do not find I can say her credit check would 
raise concerns that meant further checks were needed. Based on the information 
received I think the amounts Santander included for Miss Js credit commitment were 
reasonable.
An estimate was used for Miss Js living expenses. In this case, given the size and 
term of the loan, I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate to have 
asked Miss J about her specific living expenses to ensure the loan would be 
affordable over its repayment duration. However, having looked through Miss Js 
bank statements I do not find that I have enough to say had these further checks 
taken place then the loan would have been found to be unaffordable.
While I know this will be disappointing to Miss J. In this case while I think further 
checks should have taken place, I do not find that these would have shown the loan 
to be unaffordable therefore I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Miss J didnt agree with my provisional decision and provided further details of her expenses 
from the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
Before providing credit to Miss J, Santander needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether any lending was sustainable for her. The rules dont set out any 
specific checks which must be completed to assess creditworthiness. But while it is down to 
the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out, these should be reasonable 
and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of the term, the 
frequency and amount of the repayments, the total cost of the credit and what it knew about 
the Miss J at the time of application.
I have noted Miss Js response to my provisional decision and reviewed the information 
again in light of this. While I note her comments about her income being lower at the time of 
the loan due to her being furloughed, Santander did carry out a verification of her income 
and this supported the £1,700 recorded at application. Having looked through Miss Js bank 
statements I think that had these been assessed then the figure of £1,700 would still have 
appeared reasonable.
In regard to Miss Js credit commitments, Miss J has said that she took out the loan in order 
to repay her debts and given this it is reasonable to think that following the provision of the 
loan her previously existing credit commitments could be reduced. I also I note the 
assessment based on Miss Js credit commitment payments as recorded in her bank statements resulted in a slightly lower amount than were included in Santanders 
assessment.
As I previously noted I think that further questions should have been asked about Miss Js 
other living expenses. I have gone through Miss Js bank statements again in light of the 
additional information she provided in response to my provisional decision. Having done so, 
and following further information from Miss J, I can see that Miss J had put her mortgage 
payments on hold at the time and she was paying rent as well as being liable for the 
mortgage due to being in a shared ownership property. So, additional to her credit 
commitments (including her mortgage), Miss J was paying just over £300 a month in rent. 
Miss J also had payments for council tax, other utility payments and insurances. Taking the 
costs for these expense form Miss Js statements would leave Miss J with around £444 a 
month of disposable income to cover the costs of food, travel and the loan repayments.
As the loan repayments were for £209 a month this didnt leave Miss J with a large amount 
of disposable income but noting also my comments about her ongoing credit commitments I 
do not in this case find a can say the lending should have been considered unaffordable. 
Miss Js banks statements didnt show signs of financial difficulty and I do not find that I can 
say further checks would have shown the loan to have been unaffordable. Therefore, I do 
not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman