DRN-3877081
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC made an international transfer in Euros 
instead of British Pounds Sterling (GBP) which resulted in a lower amount being sent.
What happened
Mr S says that he attempted to make a transfer of £40,000 to an overseas account, 
however, Barclays branch staff were having IT issues. He says it took no less than five 
attempts involving more than one branch staff and more than one computer over a 45 
minute period for the transfer to be processed.
Mr S says he instructed the teller to process the transfer in GBP at a £25 fee as opposed to 
a transfer in Euros, which he estimated it would cost him approximately £1,000 based on the 
exchange rate quoted to him. He says the first teller attempted three times to process the 
instruction in Euros despite his instructions and when the transfer was unsuccessful, a 
colleague of hers processed the transfer on his laptop. He says the first teller agreed to 
waive the fee for the transfer, which is evidence the transfer was intended to be made in 
GBP and not Euros as the Euro transfer would not attract a fee.
Mr S says he signed a document which showed £40,000 was leaving his account and he 
assumed the rest of the information was correct, but he later found out the transfer was 
made in Euros. Mr S made a complaint to Barclays. 
Barclays did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said they agreed there were issues with the 
system when the payment was being processed. However, all attempts to make the 
payment were in Euros. They said he was provided with the Payment Instruction document 
prior to the payment being completed and he signed each field, agreeing with the details of 
the instruction. They said Mr S had no history of making international transfers in GBP. They 
said the cashier said she would waive the fee for the Euro payment as she thought there 
would be a charge for this, not realising the Euro payments were fee free. Barclays said their 
system defaults to sending a Euro payment as this is the most used currency.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He said he had previously made a transfer online 
through Barclays which was accidently sent in Euros, also due to Barclays pre-population of 
their system. He said if Barclays were insistent that their offer was to waive Euro transfer 
charges, the only possible way to interpret that, given that there are no fixed charges, is that 
they were offering to waive their 2.5% exchange rate margin charge on the transaction, 
which Mr S would be happy with that.
Our investigator partially upheld his complaint. He said he would uphold the complaint on the 
customer service aspect, but not the actual payment. He agreed there was confusion around 
the payment and Mr S was given incorrect information about the fee, however, the payment 
slip was signed by him, which clearly confirmed the payment was being sent in Euros, so he 
believed Mr S shouldve been aware of the currency the payment was being sent in. He 
recommended Barclays pay Mr S £50 compensation.
Mr and Mrs S asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr S made a number of 
points. In summary, he said there was a lot of chaos and haste in the bank at that time, their 
sign-off document, as presented without review or discussion, which was in conflict with his 
clear and undisputed instructions, says that the amount to be sent was £40,000 Pound 
Sterling and to him that was abundantly clear, sending implies that is what leaves the bank. 
He said if they were sending an amount in Euros, presumably that line would have showed 
the amount being sent in Euros. He said technically the bank did not send £40,000 Pounds 
Sterling as their form clearly declared that they would, and as in his haste read that they 
would.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points to this service and Barclays and Ive considered and read 
everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal 
body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr S from the outset that Im unable to instruct Barclays to change their systems or 
processes regarding international transfers and specifically what their default currency 
sending option is, as these are commercial decisions for Barclays to make. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about clearly giving the initial staff member instructions 
to send the funds in GBP. But both parties dont agree with this. The original staff member 
attempted the transfer three times in Euros. The staff member who did send the payment 
has told Barclays complaint handler that I will have confirmed how he wanted to send the 
funds. The branch staff said they thought there was a fee for the Euro transfer and that is 
why they told him they would waive this.
When it comes to complaints where its one word against another (such as what was said in 
a branch where there would be no record of this), I have to consider the evidence available 
to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of probabilities, that is, whats 
more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
So Ive had a look at the customer confirmation of the transfer. The evidence shows that Mr 
S initialled the section where it says amount to be sent 40,000.00 Pound Sterling. But 
directly underneath this, it says Currency To Be Sent in: Euro. So although Mr S says that 
in the haste of what had happened in the branch up to that point he just saw the £40,000 to 
be sent and he assumed the rest of the information was correct, he did initial this section for 
the payment to be sent in Euros. 
Mr S has also signed the Your Authorisation section of the form. This section states I/we 
have checked the payment details and confirm that they are correct and understand that 
failure to provide the correct details could cause the payment to be delayed, cancelled 
and/or incur additional costs. Please debit my/our account with the above payment amount 
together with any charges due. So the evidence would suggest that Mr S did agree for the 
payment to be sent in Euros as he signed the document confirming the funds to be sent in 
Euros.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about if Barclays were sending an amount in Euros, 
presumably that line would have showed the amount being sent in Euros and the Barclays technically didnt send £40,000 Pounds Sterling as their form clearly declares that they 
would. But Im not persuaded by this. I say this because the form clearly declared that the 
currency to be sent is Euros and not Pound Sterling. As Ive previously mentioned, it is not 
within my remit to tell a business how they should display their information here. But Im 
satisfied that the form is clear that the funds would be sent in Euros.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about the chaos of the branch and the failure of the IT 
systems prior to the transfer being processed. And Ill move onto the customer service 
aspect shortly, however, Im persuaded that if Mr S genuinely wanted the payment to be 
made in GBP, based on the first three attempts being made in Euros, this would give him 
even more reason to scrutinise the agreement of what he was signing to ensure that the 
payment was made in GBP if thats what he wanted. Mr S has also told us about a previous 
occasion where he made a transfer online which was accidently sent in Euros also due to 
Barclays pre-population of the system, so again, based on his experiences with the first teller 
and his previous experience of Barclays international transfers, this would give him more 
reason to ensure the details were correct, instead of him assuming the details would be 
correct based on one line of the two page document he signed.   
Ive then considered the customer aspect of what happened in the branch that day. As Ive 
previously mentioned, Barclays staff maintain the instruction given by Mr S was for the funds 
to be transferred in Euros and not GBP. But what is not in dispute is the IT issues that 
Barclays had on the day, which resulted in several attempts to process the transaction and 
other staff becoming involved to process this. It will have inconvenienced Mr S to have to 
wait for 45 minutes for this to be processed and system issues would be outside of his 
control.
In addition, Mr S was told that they would waive their fee for transferring the funds due to 
these issues. But the staff did not realise there was no fee for transferring the funds in Euros. 
So in effect, the staff set an expectation for Mr S that he was receiving something to 
compensate him for his inconvenience, but this actually had no value.
So Im satisfied that Barclays should recognise the impact this would have on Mr S and to 
pay him compensation for his inconvenience for him not being able to complete his transfer 
in a timely manner and for them giving him incorrect information about the fee. Im 
persuaded that £50 would be proportionate for what happened here. While Mr S has 
commented that the fee for the international transfer is around 2.5% and this should be 
refunded, this is not a fee as such as it is a margin applied to foreign exchange transfers, 
which forms part of the terms and conditions and it is not considered a fee. So it would not 
be proportionate for me to ask Barclays for me to remove this, especially as he initialled for 
the payment to be made in Euros and signed the declaration to confirm the details were 
correct. But it follows that Barclays should put things right for Mr and Mrs S for the customer 
service aspect of the complaint.
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that Barclays pay Mr and Mrs S £50 which I think is fair in 
the circumstances. Im persuaded this reflects the impact on them for Barclays giving them 
incorrect information about the fee involved and for the IT issues which meant the transfer 
was not completed initially.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs S £50 
compensation for inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman