DRN-3607953
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) handled a chargeback she raised 
and its decision to close her account.
What happened
In July 2020, Miss M asked Lloyds to help her with a dispute she was having with a 
merchant. She had purchased some gym equipment online, but when she received it the 
items were damaged and rusty, with some parts unusable and others missing. She 
contacted the seller but didnt receive any response. 
Miss M contacted Lloyds and it raised a chargeback dispute and provisionally credited her 
account with the amount of the goods in question. Miss M used this to purchase gym 
equipment from another seller. Lloyds then received a response to the chargeback dispute 
from the merchant saying they were willing to refund the payment if Miss M returned the 
equipment. 
Lloyds said this resolved the chargeback dispute, so told Miss M it would be debiting the 
payment within 10 working days. Before the payment was taken, Miss M contacted Lloyds 
on 7 September 2020 to explain she no longer had the gym equipment. However, Lloyds 
explained it couldnt assist any further, as the last day it was able to assist Miss M through 
the chargeback scheme was 6 September 2020 because of the timescales involved. Lloyds 
then took the payment, putting Miss Ms account into an unarranged overdraft. Miss M 
wasnt happy about this and complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds thought that the outcome of the chargeback was correct, as that had been dealt with 
in line with the relevant rules and timeframes. But, it accepted it hadnt provided Miss M with 
enough information during the process. It also said that it had failed to let Miss M know what 
the deadline for the chargeback claim was or to explain what the possibilities were in relation 
to the outcome of the claim. So it paid Miss M £200 for this.
Miss M was unhappy with this, so brought her complaint to our service. In addition to the 
complaint about the chargeback, Miss M wanted to complain about Lloyds closing her 
account because of not being able to repay the unarranged overdraft balance which had 
been created as a result of the chargeback. Lloyds agreed for our service to consider both 
complaint points. One of our investigators then provided their opinion on both issues. 
Our investigator was satisfied Lloyds had followed the chargeback process correctly and so 
couldnt ask it to refund the £2,000 payment. However, they agreed that Lloyds shouldve 
done a better job communicating with Miss M about this. Our investigator highlighted that 
there was nothing to indicate that Miss M was ever told there was a possibility the £2,000 
could be re-debited in the future. They said this likely contributed to why Miss M proceeded 
to make further payments and then later on went into her unarranged overdraft. Lloyds 
agreed more couldve been done and so increased its offer from the £200 it had already 
paid, to a total of £500. Our investigator felt this was fair. 
Addressing the account closure, our investigator noted Miss Ms account fell into an 
unarranged overdraft because of the £2,000 payment being re-debited. But they were 
satisfied that Lloyds had tried to help Miss M in the following months. They highlighted 
Lloyds had placed a 30 day hold on the account shortly after the re-debit, as well as an 
expenditure form which was sent to Miss M in October 2020. Multiple letters were then sent 
to Miss M in the following months asking her to get in touch. However, as no payments or 
offers of repayment were made, our investigator was satisfied Lloyds had acted reasonably 
by closing the account.
Lloyds accepted our investigators view, but Miss M disagreed. She explained that Lloyds 
failure to correctly explain what was happening with the chargeback process had a 
significant knock-on effect. The original failings (including not explaining the chargeback 
process correctly) made it seem like the £2,000 credit was permanent and so could be used 
for other things. Shes also explained that the account being closed and all the letters shes 
since received have caused her significant amounts of stress. As a result, she feels the offer 
made by Lloyds isnt enough.
As Miss M disagreed with our investigators view, the complaint has now been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two complaint points here  so Ill address them separately below.
Chargeback
Chargebacks are subject to rules and timescales which are set by the relevant card scheme 
provider. The process is that a bank will generally raise a chargeback for a customer when 
its appropriate. This means that a merchant or seller can also make representations and 
explain its side of the situation. If the merchants representations look to resolve the dispute, 
or suggest that the chargeback doesnt meet the relevant grounds for a refund under the 
rules, then it wont usually be successful.
On this occasion, Lloyds raised a chargeback on 30 July 2020 and the merchant then 
responded to the claim to say that itd be willing to refund the payment if the goods were 
returned. Lloyds considered that this resolved the dispute and told Miss M this on 
3 September 2020. Thats a decision that Lloyds was entitled to make and its one I think it 
made fairly, given that its in line with the rules.
It was at this point that the chargeback process had been completed from Lloyds side. I 
realise that the matter was far from concluded for Miss M. But, Lloyds had raised a 
chargeback, received a response from the merchant and considered that this resolved the 
dispute. Thats a reasonable response to the dispute here and in line with the chargeback 
rules for the relevant card scheme. 
I know that Miss M says that she never received responses from the merchant herself, but 
where Lloyds exhausted the chargeback process, that means its involvement in any ongoing 
dispute Miss M has with the merchant had reached an end.
I also dont think its unreasonable that Lloyds decided to re-debit the £2,000 upon receiving 
a response from the merchant. Banks will often temporarily credit a customers account 
while it looks into a chargeback claim. But this isnt a permanent payment. In this case, the 
merchant had confirmed it would be willing to refund Miss M in full (if the goods were returned) and so there appeared to be a resolution to matters. So that meant that the 
chargeback was resolved and that Lloyds debited the payment again.
But, while I think the outcome of the chargeback is fair, thats not to say that Lloyds handled 
the process around it well. There were a number of opportunities where it couldve 
communicated with her much more clearly. In particular, Miss M wasnt told that Lloyds 
would debit the money it credited her with if the chargeback wasnt successful. 
Lloyds also didnt fully explain the timeframes involved  in particular the fact that 
6 September was a key date, as it was at this point that a key chargeback time limit expired 
and meant Lloyds couldnt help her further. Lloyds has now offered a further £300 on top of 
£200 already paid for the impact this had. In my view thats a fair amount that reflects the 
significant stress and frustration that Miss M was caused by these shortcomings.
The fact that Lloyds didnt tell Miss M that it might take the money back doesnt mean that it 
wasnt entitled to do that here  its something it could always have done. And in terms of the 
dates - by 6 September, Lloyds had completed the chargeback process. Even if Miss M 
were to have provided further information before then, I dont see that would have been likely 
to have changed that outcome. I say this where she told Lloyds that she didnt have all the 
goods anymore and so couldnt comply with the sellers instruction to return them for a 
refund.
Account closure
As Ive explained above, I think Lloyds was entitled to have debited the amount it initially 
credited Miss Ms account with. It was unfortunate that Miss M had spent the money from the 
credit and by the time that the amount was debited, it meant that her account was put into an 
overdraft. 
Given that Lloyds could have been much clearer that it was going to take the payment again 
here, Id expect to have seen that Lloyds responded sympathetically to Miss Ms situation did 
what it could to help her before closing her account. I think it did that. Ive seen that Lloyds 
spoke to her around the time of the debit and allowed her temporary access to her account 
for benefits payments. It also asked her for income and expenditure information so it could 
see what help it could offer, based on her situation. Lloyds sent a number of letters, over 
several months, explaining that Miss M had been in her unarranged o/d and should contact it 
to see if it could help.
But Lloyds received no response to any of these letters and after several months of being in 
her unarranged overdraft and incurring the associated charges, Lloyds made a decision to 
close the account. Thats a decision it was entitled to make and one I think was in Miss Ms 
best interests, even if I realise that she wont see it that way. By closing the account, it 
means that no further interest or charges will be applied and itll enable Miss M to make 
payments that she can afford to reduce the debt. 
This will likely have quite seriously impacted her credit record  but that is a consequence of 
an action like this and would be an accurate reflection of what happened with the account. 
So I cant fairly expect Lloyds to remove this.
Putting things right
Overall here, I think Lloyds decided the chargeback fairly and was entitled to close Miss Ms 
account. I realise what a difficult time this will have been for her, given what shes told us 
about her circumstances. But I cant say it reached these decisions wrongly or unfairly.It didnt deal with the situation, or communication around the chargeback process well 
though  and that clearly caused Miss M some confusion and frustration. Lloyds has now 
offered a further £300 to compensate her for the impact this had. In my view this brings the 
total compensation here to a fair amount that reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Miss M £300 compensation, bringing 
the total paid to £500 overall.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman