DRN-1548187
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the fees CLAIMS (London) Ltd (CLL) have charged them for 
representing them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M instructed CLL to represent them in a complaint about a mis-sold investment 
against a bank. 
The bank upheld Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and offered them over £30,000 in compensation. 
CLL told Mr and Mrs M they would need to pay its fee of 40% plus VAT. Mr and Mrs M were 
unhappy that they were being charged such a high amount. Theyd been planning to use the 
money to fund their retirement and it was being reduced by nearly half because of CLLs 
commission and VAT. Mr and Mrs M agreed that CLLs commission rates were stated on the 
agreement they had signed. But they didnt think the amount of work CLL had 
done warranted the amount of commission it was charging. 
CLL said its fees were set out clearly in the information it had given to Mr and Mrs M before 
they agreed for it to represent them. This included the client agreement Mr and Mrs M had 
signed. The 24% regulatory fee cap Mr and Mrs M had referred to was confined to payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claims and was not relevant to the bad investment complaint Mr 
and Mrs M had instructed it to pursue. It said the fees it charged were in line with similar 
companies and reflected the time, complexity and unpredictable outcomes involved.
Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into their 
concerns but didnt think it should be upheld. He thought CLL had set out its fees clearly and 
made Mr and Mrs M aware they could choose not to proceed with it if they were unhappy 
with the costs. He didnt think CLL had done anything wrong because it had charged its fee 
in line with the agreement Mr and Mrs M had signed.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view. They said CLL didnt give them a 
projection of the likely compensation when they agreed for it to represent them. Theyd only 
expected their compensation from the bank to be a couple of thousand pounds. If theyd 
known of the projections, they might not have pursued the claim with CLL.  The first time a 
monetary amount was mentioned was almost a year after they had instructed CLL. They had 
no option but to carry on because they would have been charged anything from a £100 to 
£250 an hour for work already done. 
Mr and Mrs M said they didnt think the amount of commission CLL was charging could 
equate to the cost of the service it provided. They felt this was morally wrong.
As Mr and Mrs M have disagreed with our investigators opinion, their complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
CLL was required to give Mr and Mrs M clear information about its charges before the 
contract was agreed. As its fee was a percentage of the compensation payable, it also 
needed to give them the percentage with a typical example of the actual cost in pounds.
CLL has sent us a copy of a letter it sent to Mr and Mrs M in October 2018 which explains 
that it works on a No win, no fee basis and says the client agreement with a 40% success 
fee is enclosed. The client agreement Mr and Mrs M signed a week later says: CLAIMS fee 
will amount to 40% of the compensation awarded plus VAT. This means the total you will 
pay (with the current rate of VAT) is 48% of the compensation amount.
The client agreement also gives an example of the amount of commission a client might pay 
in monetary terms. This is set out in a table with a compensation amount, the fee at 40%, the 
VAT amount, the total to pay = 48% and the client receives amount.
So, I think CLL did give Mr and Mrs M clear information about its charges before they agreed 
for it to represent them.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M didnt expect the amount of CLLs commission to be so high 
because they hadnt anticipated the level of redress they received from the bank. They say 
they might not have pursued the claim with CLL if it had given them a projection of the 
compensation earlier on. I dont know if CLL was able to give Mr and Mrs M a projection 
before they agreed for it to represent them. But even if it could, there was no requirement for 
it to do so. 
I can also understand why Mr and Mrs M think that CLLs commission is likely to be 
disproportionate to the amount of work it did on their behalf. But there was no obligation for it 
to base its charges on the amount of work or time it spent on a case. The contract with Mr 
and Mrs M was made on a no win, no fee basis. And as Ive said, I think it gave Mr and  
Mrs M clear information on how its fees would be calculated in the event of a successful 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs M have also commented about language CLL has used in its letters, which they 
say would put many people off from making claims directly to the bank.  But CLLs obligation 
was to make Mr and Mrs M aware they could pursue their claim directly. And Mr and Mrs M 
have acknowledged that they did this. So, Mr and Mrs M comments regarding this havent 
made a difference to my conclusions. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M. The bank awarded them 
compensation to make up for money they had lost out on in the past and they want to use 
this to fund their retirement. I can understand how frustrating it must be to have to give 
almost half of it away. But having considered all their points, Ive concluded that CLL hasnt 
done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Anne MuscroftOmbudsman