DRN-3367943
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund her money that she lost as a result of a 
fraud.
What happened
In late 2020, Miss M received an unexpected automated call claiming to be from her 
communications provider. The message informed Miss M that her internet would be turned 
off due to illegal activity being detected on it. The message prompted Miss M to press a 
button, which she did, and was transferred to a person who claimed to be representative of 
the company. Unfortunately, it later transpired that Miss M was in fact talking to a fraudster.
Miss M says that the fraudster knew personal information about her, such as customer ID, 
address, telephone number and full name. The fraudster then told Miss M that she was 
currently in the process of being hacked and that she had to act as a matter of urgency. 
She was instructed to download an application to her phone and was provided an elaborate 
story regarding a known criminal who was intent on stealing her money unless specific 
instructions were followed.
The fraudster instructed Miss M to transfer £9,999 from a bank account she held with 
another provider to her Monzo account. She was then instructed to send this to another 
third-party account so that it could be kept safe. Miss M followed the instructions and 
transferred the funds to the account details provided.
The fraudster continued to attempt to extract further funds from Miss M through her accounts 
held by other providers until she was asked to contact her bank and discovered shed been 
defrauded. Miss M contacted Monzo and raised concerns regarding its lack of protection.
Monzo responded to Miss Ms claim applying the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM); 
a voluntary code it has agreed to adhere to. Under the CRM code, the starting principle is 
that a business should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an APP fraud except in 
limited circumstances. The exceptions where a business may choose not to reimburse 
include where the customer:
Ignored an effective warning.
Made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the 
person the customer was expecting to pay; the payments was for genuine goods or 
services; and/or that the person or business with whom they transacted with was 
legitimate.
Monzo has argued that both of these exceptions apply in this complaint. Therefore, it didnt 
offer to reimburse Miss M the money lost as a result of the fraud.
Miss M remained unhappy with the outcome of her complaint, so she came to our service to 
independently assess her complaint.
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties but concluded Monzo 
should have fully reimbursed under the code. They found:
  The warning provided prior to the payment being made didnt meet the definition of 
an effective warning as set out in the code.
  Due to the complexities of the fraud, and Miss Ms vulnerabilities, they felt Miss M 
did have a reasonable basis for believing she was legitimately dealing with, and 
making payment to, the communications provider.
For the above reasons, the Investigator found that Miss M had met her requisite level of 
care. Therefore, Monzo were unable to decline reimbursement under the code.
Monzo disagreed with the Investigators assessment. It said:
 Its unable to list all potential organisations that may be impersonated in any warning 
as this list would be exhaustive and render the warning ineffective.
 It remained confident that Miss M didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she 
was legitimately dealing with her communications provider. 
 There was no reasonable basis for believing a communications provider would 
instruct a customer on how to run or manage their bank account, as there is no link 
between the two.
As Monzo disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Miss M ignore an effective warning?
Miss M has argued that no warnings were shown prior to authorising the payment. But 
Monzo has been able to evidence that its warnings were activated for the specific payment 
subject to this complaint. This is supported by the fact that Miss M chose the option that 
specifies she was making payment to a safe account.
Its possible that Miss M doesnt recall seeing this warning due to the passage of time or the 
high level of pressure and stress she was under at the time. But I find it more likely than not 
from the evidence presented that a warning was given prior to making the payment.
Monzo has supplied a copy of the warning. This instructs the payer to not proceed with the 
payment and highlights that Monzoor any other bankwould not ask a customer to move 
their money out of their account. However, that wasnt specific to the fraud Miss M had fallen 
victim to.
While Miss M was intending on transferring the money to a safe account, she wasnt being 
instructed to do so by a bank. So, its understandable why this warning didnt have the 
impact it was intended to give as it wasnt relevant to the situation or scam. Nor did it go into 
any other detail about how safe account scams are typically committed or any common 
features to look out for. 
The CRM code sets out that in order for a warning to be deemed effective it should be, 
among other things, impactful and specific to the APP scam risk identified. And Im not 
persuaded here that the warning Monzo provided meets these requirements. I therefore do not find Miss M to have ignored an effective warning.
Did Miss M have a reasonable basis for belief?
The fraud committed against Miss M began with a phone call purporting to be from her 
genuine communications provider. While Miss M is unable to verify the number she was 
called on as genuine, she says she was persuaded by the level of information the caller 
knew about her that they were legitimate.
The caller greeted Miss M by her name, knew her account ID and address. Miss M has told 
our service that as her landline telephone number is only known to one other person and 
isnt held on any online or public records, she was convinced the caller was genuine.
Furthermore, Ive also considered the tactics used in these types of frauds. Miss M was 
placed into a position where she was being told her money was at risk. The caller deployed 
a number of social engineering tactics to put her on the back foot, embed fear and place 
urgency on the measures Miss M had to take to mitigate her losses. She was told her 
network had been hacked, showed her that her internet address had been changed to a 
geographical location abroad and pointed out a potential hacker on a third-party website that 
was responsible for the breach.
While this may appear to a person adept in financial and cyber crime to be a standard tactic 
used by fraudstersand suspicious in the circumstances, to the layman, this would have 
proven a convincing combination. And this factored in with the personal information known 
by the caller, which Miss M says wasnt readily available, I find it would have given her a 
reasonable basis for believing the caller was genuine.
Monzo has submitted that the link between Miss Ms communications provider and her bank 
are so tenuous that it cant see how she was convinced by the caller. But the caller wasnt 
claiming to have access or control of her bank account, they were claiming Miss Ms network 
had been hacked and that this was putting her bank accounts at risk. 
Miss M followed the instruction of the caller to transfer money to an account to keep it safe 
from the hacker. But prior to doing so, she did try to challenge the caller as to why she was 
moving the money between accounts if they were compromised. This shows that Miss M 
was attempting to understand the logic behind the requests she was being given, but the 
fraudster claimed that the accounts she was transferring them to were also discovered to be 
at risk. And Miss M has told our service that the caller began raising their voice and 
aggressively telling her that shed lose her money if she didnt act immediately.
This no doubt caused an immense amount of panic, fear and anxiety in Miss M, and shes 
told our service that this was exacerbated by recent traumatic events shed experienced as a 
result of an abusive relationship. So, overall, I dont think Monzo has been able to 
persuasively argue that Miss M made the transfers without a reasonable basis for belief. And 
so it follows that it cant rely on this for exemption for reimbursement.
Putting things right
Monzo should now go ahead and reimburse Miss M the full amount lost. 
Ive also considered the appropriate amount of interest to pay Miss M for deprivation of those 
funds. 
Monzo has agreed that it intervened in the payment by displaying the appropriate warning 
before Miss M proceeded with the payment. But I think it missed an opportunity here under its regular obligations, outside of those in the CRM code, to protect Miss M from financial 
harm.
Miss M clicked on the safe account option when selecting what the payment was being 
made for. This is a clear and concerning indicator that its customer is in the process of being 
defrauded as there are few legitimate reasons why a customer may be transferring their 
funds for this purpose.
Further, Miss M was transferring almost the entirety of the balance of her account and the 
payment was significantly higher than any transaction shed made prior. I think this 
presented Monzo with a number of concerning signs and I think it missed an opportunity to 
engage in a meaningful intervention in the payment journey.
Had it done so, its likely it could have stopped the payment from being made considering 
the circumstances to a person adept in financial crime were clearly that of fraud. For those 
reasons, I feel it fair that Monzo pays 8% simple interest per annum from the date the 
payment was made to the date it settles with Miss M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Reimburse Miss M the £9,999 lost
Pay 8% simple annual interest on this amount from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman