DRN-3479480
The complaint
Mx C is unhappy that they couldnt open a bank account with Lloyds Bank PLC over the 
phone due to their title being Mx.
What happened
Mx C has a bank account with Lloyds which was opened online. They told us they had 
problems opening this account as they are borderline dyslexic and had issues completing 
the forms. Mx C said they didnt want to have to go through the same process again so, 
when they wanted to open a second account, they called Lloyds to do this. They told us they 
thought this had happened, but when Mx C chased this up a few days later, they were told 
the bank systems wouldnt allow an account to be opened over the phone using the title Mx 
 this could only be done online or face to face in branch. 
Mx C said this was discriminatory and complained. They explained why using the online 
process was very difficult and that visiting a branch wasnt a suitable alternative due to their 
work pattern. Lloyds upheld the complaint and paid them £150.
 
Mx C wasnt happy with this and brought their complaint to our service, where it was looked 
at by one of our investigators. When asked, they told us they wanted Lloyds to fix its 
systems so that those with the title Mx can open bank accounts over the phone, just like 
anybody else.
 
Our investigator thought Lloyds needed to do more here. Briefly, she thought the bank 
should pay Mx C a further £150 for the distress theyd experienced at being treated 
differently to others. Lloyds agreed to this.
 
Mx C asked for their case to be looked at by an ombudsman. They felt it was unfair that 
Lloyds accept that its systems dont allow people with the title Mx to open an account over 
the phone but havent changed this.
Mx C also raised questions about the Financial Ombudsman Services process for making 
referrals to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and whether accepting the investigators 
view would prejudice their ability to take legal action against Lloyds.
 
As this complaint remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. First, I want to make it clear that 
Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and largely 
in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. If theres something Ive not mentioned, 
Ive not ignored it. Ive not commented on every individual detail. What Ive done is to focus 
on the details that are central to me reaching what I think is the right outcome. This reflects 
the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Im also very aware that Mx C has questioned our process for referring issues to the FCA. 
This relates to the actions of the Financial Ombudsman Service, not the merits of their 
complaint against Lloyds. As my decision is only dealing with the actions of Lloyds, I wont 
be commenting on our process here.
 
I can also see Mx C has asked whether accepting our initial findings would prejudice their 
ability to take legal action against Lloyds. If Mx C accepts this final decision it would be 
binding on both them and the bank. As such, it would affect Mx C being able to take any 
further legal action. If they reject my decision and are thinking about taking further action 
against Lloyds, I suggest they seek their own legal advice.
 
Ill now turn to the merits of this complaint. Im required to reach my decision by reference to 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable. When thinking about this, Im required to take 
into account  amongst other things  relevant law. Here, relevant law includes the Equality 
Act 2010.
 
Its not for me to decide if Lloyds has breached this act. That would be for a court to decide. 
But what I can decide is if the bank has treated Mx C fairly and reasonably. Im satisfied 
Lloyds didnt treat them fairly and reasonably as the banks systems wouldnt allow them to 
open an account over the phone due to their title of Mx. Lloyds accepts its system limitations 
and has apologised to Mx C for this. Its not within my remit to tell Lloyds what systems it 
should have or to tell the bank to make changes to its existing systems. Thats an internal 
matter for Lloyds.
 
But I would note that the FCA defines vulnerable customers as someone who, due to their 
personal circumstances, are especially susceptible to detriment, particularly when a firm isnt 
acting with appropriate levels of care. Mx C, with the problems theyve had with the use of 
the title Mx and also their borderline dyslexia, could be covered by this definition.
 
As such, the FCAs guidance for firms on the fair treatment of vulnerable customers would 
be relevant. Again, in very general terms, the guidance says firms such as Lloyds should 
deliver appropriate customer service that responds flexibly to the needs of vulnerable 
consumers and put in place systems and processes that support the delivery of good 
customer service.
 
Im pleased to see Lloyds has raised this system limitation internally, so others dont 
experience the same issue. But the bank isnt able to provide a date for when this change 
might be made. Again, its not within my remit to tell Lloyds when it must do this by. 
I know the outcome Mx C wants is for Lloyds to change its systems so those with the title Mx 
can open bank accounts over the phone just like anybody else. But as Ive just explained, 
Im unable to direct the bank to do this.
 
But what I can do is look at the upset this has caused to Mx C. I do appreciate the distress 
this situation has caused them, and also their continued frustration that Lloyds hasnt 
changed its systems. I really can see how strongly they feel about this matter. 
With this in mind, while I can see Lloyds has already paid Mx C £150, I dont think this goes 
far enough. In the individual circumstances of this complaint, given the upset Mx C has 
experienced and their strength of feeling, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for 
Lloyds to pay a further £150 on top of the amount its already paid.
 
As Ive said previously, Lloyds has been unable to provide an indicative date as to when its 
systems will be upgraded to remove this limitation. I cant instruct Lloyds to resolve the problem by a certain date. However, I think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Lloyds 
to have taken action to resolve the issue within 12 months of the date of this decision. As 
such, the compensation Ive awarded in this case reflects my expectation that Mx C will not 
experience distress or inconvenience in relation to this matter beyond a further 12 months. 
Should the issue remain unresolved after this time has passed, if Mx C remains unhappy 
they may wish to raise a further complaint with Lloyds.
My final decision
My final decision is Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mx C a further £150.
 
This final decision marks the end of the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this
complaint. This means we are unable to consider the merits of it any further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mx C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022. 
John Miles
Ombudsman