DRN-2300539
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a curtailment 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr and Mrs C and their children travelled abroad to an all-inclusive resort.
Unfortunately, Mrs C became unwell with severe abdominal pain and other symptoms and
had to seek medical advice. Mr and Mrs C sought help from UKIs medical assistance team.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs C returned to the UK on their original pre-booked flight, where Mrs C
underwent emergency surgery for a twisted ovarian cyst.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with the way UKI had handled their request for medical
assistance, as thered been a delay in it translating Mrs Cs medical report. They made a
complaint to us about that issue. Our investigator thought UKI hadnt handled Mr and Mrs
Cs claim promptly and fairly, so he recommended that it should pay them £600 total
compensation. UKI agreed to pay this amount for Mr and Mrs Cs distress and
inconvenience.
However, Mr and Mrs C thought UKI should pay for the curtailment of their holiday. They felt
that if UKI had translated the report promptly, UKI wouldve known that Mrs C had needed to
return home immediately for medical treatment. Because it hadnt, she hadnt been able to
get treatment until she got home. Mr C said that due to Mrs Cs illness during the holiday,
hed had to take care of their children, one of whom has a disability, and so they hadnt had
the holiday theyd planned.
UKI turned down Mr and Mrs Cs curtailment claim. It said the medical report didnt say itd
been medically necessary for Mrs C to return home to seek medical attention. And she
hadnt been admitted for inpatient treatment  shed been treated as an outpatient. So it said
Mr and Mrs C hadnt cut short their trip and it didnt think the trip had been effectively
curtailed. Mr and Mrs C asked us to look into whether itd been fair for UKI to turn down their
curtailment claim.
The investigator thought Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. He felt that if UKI had
translated the medical report when it ought to have done, Mrs C would most likely have been
admitted as an in-patient for the emergency surgery she underwent in the UK. So he felt her
holiday had been curtailed at the point she was discharged by the medical team and became
confined to her room. And he felt that as Mr C had been left caring from his family, he hadnt
had the holiday hed planned. So he recommended that UKI should reconsider Mr and Mrs
Cs curtailment claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
UKI disagreed. It said that the medical report had suggested that Mrs C should monitor
herself and go back to hospital if she needed to, not that she wouldve been referred for 
inpatient
treatment. And it said during a call between Mr C and its assistance company, Mr C
hadnt wanted to provide any further information because he told it he was on holiday. So
UKI didnt feel that this supported the idea that Mr C had also been confined to his room.
Overall, UKI didnt agree that it should pay curtailment benefit on the policy.
I issued my provisional decision on 18 October 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be partly upheld and that UKI 
should reconsider a claim for the effective curtailment of Mrs Cs holiday. I said:
As the investigator explained, the relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle
claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought
about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances, the policy terms and the evidence Ive seen to decide
whether I think UKI handled the claim fairly.
First, Ive considered the terms of Mr and Mrs Cs policy. Section E  Cutting your Trip Short
says:
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for costs that you have paid or legally
have to pay if you have to cut your trip short, We will provide this cover if you have to cut 
your trip short for any of these reasons:
1 Death, illness or injury: the death, serious injury or illness of you, your travelling
companion, a close relative or anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay
with.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs C and their family didnt return home early. Theres also
no dispute that while Mrs C did seek emergency medical assistance while abroad, she
wasnt admitted to hospital. So on a strict interpretation of the policy, the claim isnt covered
by the terms of the cutting your trip short section.
But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I consider it would result in
an unfair or unreasonable result.
Ive looked closely at the medical report that was provided by the medical professionals who
treated Mrs C abroad. It seems the initial diagnosis was renal colic and Mrs C was
prescribed medication to treat her pain. The report suggests that it wanted to keep her in
because her pain hadnt totally improved. But I dont think the report suggests that Mrs C
was to be referred to a specialist for surgery. And theres no reference to the condition she
was eventually treated for. So I dont think I can reasonably find that Mrs C wouldve most
likely been admitted as in inpatient abroad for surgery.
However, it seems clear that Mrs Cs symptoms of severe pain continued for the duration of
her holiday. I say that because on 17 October 2018  around a week after Mrs C first began
to experience pain, she was admitted to her local hospital with severe abdominal pain and
underwent surgery for a twisted ovarian cyst, which had become necrotic. It seems the pain
was on the same side as the pain shed suffered abroad and her symptoms were severe
enough to require surgery. So I accept Mrs Cs testimony that she was in severe pain during
the trip and was largely confined to her room during the whole period of it.
On that basis, I think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for UKI to treat Mrs Cs claim
as effectively curtailed from the point she sought medical attention abroad and to reconsider
her claim on that basis.
Ive thought about whether I think it would be fair for UKI to reconsider Mr C and the
childrens curtailment claims too. And Im not currently persuaded that it would be. I accept
Mr C had to look after the children and that one of the children has a disability that requires
additional care. So its clear he didnt get the holiday hed planned and I dont doubt howstressful and worrying it mustve been seeing Mrs C ill and in pain. But the policy terms dont
cover loss of enjoyment.
I understand the family were on an all-inclusive holiday, which wouldve included meals and
likely some leisure facilities too. So I think its likely Mr C and the children wouldve been
able to make use of some of the facilities available at their resort. And I havent seen enough
to persuade me its most likely they were also confined to the room, especially as Mr C did
tell UKI he wasnt prepared to provide any additional information because he was on holiday.
While Ive considered his comments about this, I dont think the call suggested he needed
additional support or that the whole family were stuck in the room for the duration of the trip.
This means I dont currently think UKI needs to reconsider Mr Cs curtailment costs or those
of his children.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C feel UKI should pay them a further amount for their trouble and
upset. Ive thought about this. But strictly, their claim isnt covered by the policy terms. And I
can see from UKIs records that it looked into Mr and Mrs Cs curtailment claim promptly. So
Im not proposing to direct UKI to pay any compensation for Mr and Mrs Cs distress and
Inconvenience.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Neither Mr and Mrs C nor UKI accepted my provisional findings. Ive summarised their 
responses below.
UKI felt the letter from the hospital was ambiguous and could suggest that itd suggested 
Mrs C should stay in because her pain hadnt subsided. It didnt mention an ovarian cyst, 
which Mrs C had known about since May 2018. The report didnt make any further 
recommendations for Mrs Cs care. When UKI had spoken to Mrs C later on, she said she 
wasnt feeling too bad, but was still quite poorly. Shed been told to monitor herself and go 
back to hospital if she needed to. There was no suggestion she needed to go back to 
hospital. Mr C had refused to send it another copy of the hospital letter, because he said he 
was on holiday. He hadnt suggested he was confined to the room with his wife or children.
Mr and Mrs C said if UKI had translated the medical report sooner, they wouldve borrowed 
money from friends or family so they could go back to the hospital. They would also have 
been in a position to get a second opinion on what was causing Mrs Cs pain and she 
couldve undergone further tests and investigations. Mr C had told UKI he was on holiday, 
but that was a figure of speech and it was because he hadnt had any help from it previously 
during multiple calls. He and his children hadnt had any holiday  they hadnt been able to 
use any of the resorts facilities, and Mr C had had to care for his children. They felt UKI 
should pay them compensation as it had caused additional stress for the family. Mr and Mrs 
C also wanted interest paid on any settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think the fair outcome is for UKI to reconsider a claim for Mrs Cs 
effective curtailment and Ill explain why.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont dispute that Mrs C wasnt admitted to 
hospital and that she didnt return to the UK early. So on a strict interpretation of the 
insurance contract, UKI was entitled to turn down a curtailment claim.I also accept that the hospital report doesnt provide a final diagnosis, or any further 
recommendations for Mrs Cs treatment. It doesnt seem further testing had been planned at 
that point, or that it planned to carry out surgery; although the hospital did suggest that Mrs 
C ought to stay in hospital because her pain hadnt totally improved. 
But I do think the report makes it clear that Mrs C was in substantial pain, for which shed 
sought medical advice and received pain relief treatment. Shed also been told to self-
monitor. UKI accepts Mrs C told it that she was still poorly and that while she had felt a bit 
better, she was having a bad day. So Im satisfied she hadnt quickly recovered and was still 
in pain. The fact she sought emergency medical treatment promptly when she returned to 
the UK with similar symptoms of pain would suggest that the problem had been ongoing for 
the duration of the trip, even if she didnt return to the hospital abroad. This is supported by 
the UK hospitals report which states Mrs C had told it shed been suffering from pain for the 
past seven days while on holiday. This makes me think Mrs C had likely been confined to 
her room and was feeling unwell during the trip.
So even though Mrs C wasnt admitted to hospital and was self-monitoring, Im still 
persuaded that her holiday was effectively curtailed at the point she sought treatment abroad 
until she was able to return home.
Ive then re-looked at whether UKI should also reconsider a curtailment claim for Mr C and 
the children. Ive thought about what Mr C said and his explanation for his comments to UKI 
about being on holiday. As I explained, I dont doubt that it mustve been a very worrying 
week for Mr C and his children, given Mrs Cs illness. And I appreciate that they didnt have 
the holiday they planned. But I still think Mr C couldve made use of at least some of the 
resorts facilities and I havent seen enough to persuade me it was most likely Mr C and the 
children were also confined to their room for the duration of the holiday. Ive also borne in 
mind that he didnt want to engage further with UKI. I dont think I can fairly hold UKI 
responsible for his decision. The policy simply doesnt cover loss of enjoyment.
Overall, Im still persuaded the fair outcome is for UKI to reconsider a claim for Mrs Cs 
curtailment claim only. Its important I make clear that Im not telling UKI to pay Mrs Cs 
curtailment claim, simply to look at it again as if the claim did fall within the scope of 
curtailment cover. Thats why I havent included an award for interest in the settlement I 
proposed  as Im not directing UKI to pay an amount of money. If Mr and Mrs C are 
unhappy with the outcome of the claim once UKI has reconsidered it, theyll need to make a 
new complaint to UKI before we can potentially help with it.
Mr and Mrs C feel they should be paid compensation on top of the amount they were paid 
for their previous complaint. Ive thought about this. But because I dont think Mrs Cs claim 
is strictly covered by the policy terms, I dont think it would be reasonable to direct UKI to pay 
any additional compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partly uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
I direct U K Insurance Limited to reconsider Mrs Cs curtailment claim in line with the
policy terms and conditions, from the date she sought treatment until the date she returned
to the UK.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman