DRN-4032927
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained about QIC Europe Ltds decision to reject a claim they made 
for storm damage to their roof under their home buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K made a claim to QIC for damage to their roof following a named storm. QIC 
accept that storm conditions occurred when the damage occurred. But it says the storm 
highlighted pre-existing issues with the roof and declined the claim. It said the damage had 
been caused by wear and tear. 
Mr and Mrs K asked us to look at their complaint. Our Investigators issued three views. Their 
initial recommendation was to uphold the complaint, but on further information from QIC they 
thought it shouldnt be. On further evidence from Mr and Mrs K, the Investigator 
recommended the complaint should be upheld. As Mr and Mrs K had paid for the repairs, 
they recommended QIC meet the costs of the repairs. 
QIC didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties are aware, we ask three questions when we look at storm damage claim 
complaints to help decide whether an insurer has acted reasonably - and in line with the 
policy. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then we think the claim is likely to succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
All parties accept that storm conditions occurred, so the answer to the first question is yes. 
Roof tiles have come away and so the answer to the second question is yes as this is 
consistent with damage a storm typically causes. 
The remaining question is whether storm conditions were the main cause of the damage and 
this is in dispute. 
QIC provided a report from a Surveyor it appointed to validate the claim. The Surveyor 
reported that mortar on the roof had deteriorated. The Surveyor concluded that storm wasnt 
the cause of damage, but had highlighted pre-existing issues with the roof. 
Ive looked at the photos provided by both QIC and Mr and Mrs K. Any sign of mortar 
deterioration is limited to the roof ridges and not in the area where the roof tiles have 
become dislodged. 
QIC said that the main cause of the slate tiles slipping from the roof was caused by nail 
sickness or deterioration of the nails that held the tiles in place, causing the tiles to slip.
This isnt mentioned in the Surveyors report as a cause of damage. And in response, Mr 
and Mrs K provided a report from an independent roofer. The roofer said that 
The main roof on the property is weathered with natural 20x10 slates.
Under the slates there is a felt lining (1F felt/slaters felt) which means that the roof 
has been re-roofed since the 1960's.
I removed a slate to check for nail sickness/fatigue.
The nails which hold the slates in place are copper nails and are in good condition.
Copper nails do not suffer from nail fatigue and will last the lifetime of the roof.
The slates feel firmly fixed.
It is my professional opinion that the slates were removed from the roof due to the
'suction' effect of the storm.
In response, QIC said it accepts copper nails may last the lifetime of a roof, but that the roof 
was at the end of its lifetime. It said photos show the tiles as brittle and that tiles had 
previously slipped.
QIC says it agrees with the Investigators second view where they explained that slate tiles 
are built to be highly weather resistant and should resist strong winds if maintained properly, 
but if they do lift due to strong gusts, theres usually signs of breakage left behind.
In this case, the tiles all slipped downwards with no sign of breakage as though the nail has 
deteriorated.
QIC says the only breakage in the tile being situated away from the nail, rather than broken 
around it. If wind had caused this damage it would expect any breakages to be around the 
nail instead through the force caused by wind.
However, while there is evidence that the roof has weathered, I dont think QIC has 
reasonably shown that the cause of damage was wear and tear. Photos of the condition of 
the nails on the roof provided by the independent roofer show good condition. I think strong 
wind gusts of 73 mph can reasonably support the roofers opinion that storm damage was 
the main cause of damage in this case. And as Ive previously said, any reference to nail 
fatigue or the way in which the tiles dislodged (the damage being claimed for) isnt 
mentioned by the Surveyor appointed by QIC to identify the cause of damage in their report. 
The cause of damage was reported as due to wear and tear caused by mortar deterioration. 
My final decision
My final decision is along the same lines as the Investigators first view. I uphold this 
complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to do the following:
Pay the claim for storm damage by reimbursing Mr and Mrs K for what they paid 
for repairs - subject to reasonable proof and in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
Pay interest on the settlement amount at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from 
the date Mr and Mrs K paid to the date of reimbursement. 
Pay Mr and Mrs K £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman