DRN-3865942
The complaint
Mr J complains about the no claims discount (NCD) MCE Insurance Limited sent him after 
his motorbike insurer went into administration. 
What happened
Mr J bought insurance with an insurer through MCE, who are the broker for his policy. The 
insurer then went into administration and cancelled Mr Js policy. When the policy was 
cancelled MCE were told by the insurer Mr J had 9 years NCD, so MCE wrote to Mr J to 
confirm this. They also let Mr J know that in certain circumstances they had made an 
arrangement with a new insurer who would honour the lost NCD due to the previous insurer 
going into administration.
Mr J didnt think this was fair and complained. He said when hed bought his policy, hed told 
MCE that he had 12 years NCD and therefore thats what his insurer should have been 
provided. He also said as hed paid his premium up front, he should have gained another 
years NCD and thought that MCEs offer to try and honour the lost NCD was them 
blackmailing him into buying another policy through them. As Mr J didnt get a response, he 
referred his complaint here. He said MCE should have told his insurer he had 12 years NCD 
when he bought the policy through them and that therefore when they confirmed his NCD 
after his insurer cancelled the policy that it should have a minimum of 12 years NCD.  
MCE said they werent responsible for the amount of NCD as that was decided by the 
insurer. Because of this MCE didnt think the complaint should be against them. Our 
investigator explained that due to Mr J complaining about the NCD hed disclosed when 
buying the policy and the letter issued confirming it, the complaint would need to be against 
the broker, MCE. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld it. She found that 
there wasnt evidence Mr J had submitted 12 years NCD through the application process. 
She also thought that as Mr J had 12 years NCD confirmation from his previous insurer that 
would still be valid and Mr J could provide that along with the NCD from MCE to any new 
insurer so they could take it into account. Because of this she didnt recommend MCE do 
anything else. She also didnt think MCE had done anything wrong by explaining the 
arrangement for the additional years NCD if Mr J re-insured through them. 
Mr J disagreed, he said hed lost out on NCD and that every year mattered. Because of this 
he said he should be compensated as MCE had made a mistake when he bought the policy. 
As Mr J didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has said when he bought the policy, he let MCE know he had 12 years NCD. He 
therefore feels hes lost out on 3 years NCD as MCE have only issued confirmation of 9 
years NCD when his insurer cancelled his policy. 
When a policy is sold a broker needs to ensure they are passing accurate information onto 
the insurer. And if they dont do so and make an error, Id look at the impact this error has 
had. 
In this case MCE havent provided the information to show what was inputted by Mr J when 
he took out his policy. However, they have provided confirmation from Mr Js insurer which 
shows they thought he only had 9 years NCD. As his insurer is no longer trading its not 
possible for me to check whether they would have accepted 12 years NCD. Im aware that 
different insurers have different maximum NCD allowances. And without knowing what Mr 
Js insurers maximum was and whether there was a difference in premium between 9 or 12 
years NCD, Im unable to say he hes suffered a loss. 
I understand Mr J says he has suffered a loss as his most recent NCD says he has 9 years 
NCD. However, hes also provided his previous NCD which shows 12 years NCD. Hes 
therefore able to provide both of these letters to any new insurer and if they accept over 9 
years NCD they can decide if they wish to allow it. So while I understand Mr Js frustration at 
receiving a letter from MCE showing less NCD then when he bought the policy, Im not 
satisfied its caused him a loss. Im therefore not going to tell MCE to do anything else. 
Ive also considered Mr Js complaint about whether MCE were trying to blackmail Mr J into 
buying another policy through them. I feel it would help to confirm that its not my role to say 
if someone is being blackmailed, as that is a matter for the courts. Ive reviewed the e-mail 
MCE sent though and Im not persuaded theyve did anything wrong in sending it. I say that 
because MCE has written to Mr J to let him know of an agreement its reached with a new 
insurer to try and help support its customers. The agreement explains there is a criteria 
where the new insurer will honour a full years NCD even though the previous policy hadnt 
run for the full term. One of the criteria is how long Mr J had his policy before the insurer 
went into administration. The letter is explaining the agreement reached for MCEs 
customers and while Mr J may not have appreciated it. I dont think MCE did anything wrong 
by letting him know about the agreement.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman