DRN-1239096
The complaint
Mrs S complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) didnt award 
the correct amount of reward points she was told she would receive. 
What happened
Mrs S held a Starwood Preferred Guest (SPG) branded Amex credit card. The standard 
terms of this card offered three reward points per every £1 spent on qualifying transactions. 
During a telephone conversation in December 2018, Mrs S says Amex offered her an 
enhanced deal for three months  six points for every £1 spent on qualifying transactions 
(i.e. double points). 
As a result, Mrs S says she made more transactions on her card than usual in order to 
benefit from the additional points. But when she received her statements, she found she 
hadnt been awarded double points.    
Amex hasnt disputed that, at the end of the telephone conversation, Mrs S was left with the 
impression she would earn double points. But it says the information provided was wrong. It 
explained that its representatives confusion had come about because it had previously 
offered double points in certain circumstances  such as, in order to retain business. But it 
says it wasnt obliged to make such offers and this offer wasnt available in December 2018. 
It explained that the promotion Mrs S was eligible for on this occasion was an extra one point 
for every £1 spent  four points per £1 spent. And it confirmed that this is what Mrs S has 
received. In addition, it awarded 30,000 extra points in recognition that the information 
provided in the call wasnt as clear as it should have been.
Mrs S didnt agree and so she referred the complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into things. But he thought Amex had dealt with Mrs S complaint fairly and didnt ask 
it to do anything else. 
Mrs S didnt accept this. In summary she said: it is irrelevant that Amex made a mistake - it 
offered her double-points and this is what she accepted; she had no reason to doubt it was a 
valid offer as she had benefitted from a similar offer before. She added that the 30,000 
additional points awarded was not fair.
So, Mrs S complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, this decision solely relates to the allocation of reward points following Mrs S 
telephone conversation with Amex in December 2018. I make no finding on any previous 
promotional offers relating to reward points or Amexs subsequent decision to close Mrs S 
account. If Mrs S has concerns about the closure of her account, she will need to address 
those concerns with Amex in the first instance.
Mrs S has provided detailed responses to both Amex and our investigator. And its clear how 
strongly she feels about this matter. So, I trust Mrs S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive 
condensed her complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution 
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although 
Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it to reach the right outcome. 
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mrs S credit card account in relation to the 
reward points system. These say that the account holder will receive three points for every 
£1 spent. And its not in dispute that Mrs S received these points  rather, she says that 
Amex offered her an incentive of double points for a period of three months in order to retain 
her continued business. And this is something it has offered previously and honoured. But 
on this occasion Amex credited her account with only one additional reward point.      
   
I can understand why Mrs S is upset. She had a conversation with Amex and was left with 
the expectation that she would receive double points on her qualifying spend. And, as she 
had benefitted from such offers in the past, I accept she had no reason to doubt the 
information she had been given.
But Amex has explained that the information provided in the telephone conversation was 
wrong. It has acknowledged that it previously offered double points to some account holders 
in order to retain business  including Mrs S. But it says this offer wasnt available in 
December 2018. And Ive not seen anything that would make me think that a double-points 
offer was part of the contractual agreement Mrs S entered into with Amex. As mentioned 
above, the agreement was for three points for every £1 spent. I appreciate that from time to 
time Amex agreed to increase the points reward, but Im satisfied it did this to retain 
business and that it wasnt obliged to make such offers.
Amex has explained that its representatives confusion came about because around the time 
of this call, SPG was merging with another hotel group and the rewards points incentive was 
changing to a different scheme. Overall, while I acknowledge that Mrs S was given wrong 
information, Im persuaded that the double points offer wasnt available when Mrs S called 
Amex in December 2018. 
Mrs S says that its irrelevant if Amex made a mistake. It offered her double points and thats 
what she accepted. And, as a result, she says she has lost out financially. But our services 
approach to complaints in which incorrect information is given is that we aim to put the 
consumer back into the financial position they would have been in had the correct 
information been given  not the position they would have been in had the incorrect 
information been true. The correct position in this case is that Mrs S should receive the offer 
she was eligible for. Amex says this is one additional point for every £1 spent i.e. four points 
per £1. And Amex has confirmed that this is what Mrs S received and she hasnt disputed 
this. So, I dont think Mrs S has made a financial loss.
I note Mrs S has said that she made purchases on her Amex card rather than paying by any 
other means as she thought shed earn more points. But I havent seen anything that would make me think Mrs S has lost out financially as a result of paying for transactions using this 
card as opposed to using any other payment method.
Ive thought about how Amex dealt with Mrs S complaint and whether the settlement was 
reasonable. Amex upheld Mrs S complaint and awarded an additional 30,000 reward points 
in recognition of the mis-information she was given. I know Mrs S wanted the reward points 
she discussed during her call with Amex, but as Ive said above, I dont think a double-points 
offer was available at the time of her call. 
Whilst I accept Amex did give Mrs S wrong information, Im satisfied it has apologised and 
awarded 30,000 reward points to recognise its error. I think that fairly reflects the impact of 
Amexs error on Mrs S, so Im not going to tell it to increase the settlement or take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I'm satisfied it was reasonable for                         
American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to resolve the matter in the way it did.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman