DRN-3936065
The complaint
Miss M complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase (HP) agreement from 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
In June 2021 Miss M applied to SMFL through a credit broker I shall call G for finance to 
get a used car. The car was over five years old at the time of acquisition and had a reading 
of 65,630 miles on the odometer. SMFL approved the application and Miss M was provided 
a HP agreement for £5,495. 
Miss M says that within the first week of her having the car, there was a water leak. Miss M 
says the garage where she acquired the car wouldnt help, so she called G. However, G 
didnt reply so Miss M ended up getting the repairs done herself. In June 2022, there was an 
issue with the clutch. It was concluded the clutch was failing and therefore it was replaced. 
Given Miss Ms previous experience, she also had this repaired herself. 
Then in December 2022, Miss M started to feel the car lose power. The following day when 
she tried to drive the car, it had lost power completely. This time Miss M says she did contact 
G again and was told to get an independent inspection carried out. Miss M arranged this, 
and an inspection was carried out. 
After a delay, Miss M was advised that the inspection report concluded the current issues 
with the car wouldnt have been present or developing at the point of supply. Miss M says 
that G therefore advised it couldnt do anything more and explained she should contact 
SMFL. A complaint was logged with SMFL, and it provided its final response in January 
2023.
In this SMFL said Miss Ms short term right to rejection had passed. It also said there was no 
evidence the supplying dealer had carried out any repairs. On this basis evidence was 
requested to show the fault being experienced was either present/developing at the point of 
supply or related to a previous repair. The inspection report concluded that the issue was not 
present/developing at the point of supply and didnt relate to a previous repair. Therefore, 
SMFL said there was no evidence to suggest the car was of unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied to Miss M. 
Miss M referred her complaint to our service as she remained unhappy. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and concluded the car supplied to Miss M wasnt of 
unsatisfactory quality. Miss M didnt agree and said the finance was five years and she 
shouldnt have to keep fixing a car that doesnt belong to her. 
As Miss M doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, any regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (if 
appropriate) what I consider good industry practice at the time. SMFL supplied the car to 
Miss M under a HP agreement. So, its therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality 
of the car. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says, amongst other 
things, that the car shouldve been of satisfactory quality when supplied. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
that would include things like age and mileage at the time of supply. 
Miss M was supplied with a car that was over five years old and according to the invoice, 
had travelled 65,630 miles. It cost less than it would have brand new and so I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect the same standard as they would from a brand-new car. Id 
expect to see signs of wear and tear on a car of that age and mileage. And I think that any 
reasonable person would expect some components to need replacing much sooner than 
would be the case with a new car that had a lower mileage. 
In this case Miss M appears to have raised three main faults that occurred with her car. 
These are the water leak, clutch issue, and loss of power. 
Water leak 
Miss M has explained that she raised an issue with the car leaking water within a week of it 
being supplied to her. Unfortunately, Miss M doesnt have any supporting information to 
evidence what the issue was or whether it was an inherent fault with the car. Given the lack 
of evidence regarding the water leak issue, I cant say there are sufficient grounds the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality. 
Clutch issue
Miss M has provided evidence that she replaced the clutch in the car after it failed. The 
invoice for the clutch replacement is dated 21 June 2022 and gives Miss Ms car mileage at 
the time as 74,835. 
As Ive said, I would expect a car of the age and mileage that Miss M acquired to have 
components start to experience wear and tear issues and need replacing. In this case Miss 
M was able to travel approximately 9,200 miles across one year, before the clutch ultimately 
failed and needed replacing. I dont think that wouldve been possible had the issue been 
present or developing at the point of supple. I believe had the issue with the clutch been 
present when Miss M acquired the car, this wouldve been highlighted and required replacing 
sooner than one year and over 9,000 miles after supply. Therefore, given the evidence 
regarding the clutch fault, I dont agree it means the car SMFL supplied to Miss M was of 
unsatisfactory quality. I find the fault with the clutch was likely due to wear and tear and 
therefore not SMFLs responsibility. 
Loss of power
Lastly, Ive looked at the loss of power issue Miss M is experiencing. Its clear this fault is 
present on the car. 
The independent ACE report by a qualified engineer concludes that given the mileage 
covered by Miss M, the loss of power issues wouldnt have been present or developing at 
the point of supply. By the time of the ACE report Miss M had been in possession of the car 
for around 18 months and covered just under 14,000 miles. The engineer doesnt specifically 
provide any opinion on the water leak or clutch issue. This is as I would expect given Miss M 
had explained those issues had been resolved previously. The engineer does however 
conclude that the loss of power issues isnt because of any failed previous repairs.  Given this, I cant say that the loss of power fault means the car supplied to Miss M was of 
unsatisfactory quality. 
I do note there is a discrepancy in the mileage provided in the inspection report. This gives 
the mileage at the time of supply as 71,685, rather than the 65,630 given on the invoice. I 
can see that the investigator had provided details of the mileage given at different MOTs. 
Given the mileage detailed in these MOTs, the invoice and clutch repair invoice, Im 
satisfied the correct mileage at the point of supply was more likely 65,630. 
This would mean Miss M covered even more miles than the engineer believed. I dont 
therefore believe the discrepancy with the mileage on the report has any bearing on the 
conclusions reached by the engineer. 
I dont think theres any dispute that Miss M has experienced some issues with the car  that 
has been evidenced by both her testimony and the documentation shes sent us. But that
doesnt mean that the issues are necessarily something that I think SMFL ought to be
responsible for.
I say this because I dont think its unreasonable to expect issues to arise through normal 
wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage. Miss M was able to cover a considerable 
number of miles before issues with the clutch and loss of power occurred. The independent 
inspection carried out concludes that the engineer doesnt believe that the car couldve 
completed the miles it did after supply, had the loss of power issue been present at the point 
of supply. 
There isnt any requirement for the car to be working for the term of the HP agreement. The 
car just has to be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss M. But given the evidence, the additional miles Miss M was able to 
cover and the age/mileage of the car, I find it more likely than not she purchased a car that 
was of satisfactory quality. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint against Specialist Motor Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman