DRN-3327109
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Specialist Motor Finance are charging him a shortfall after terminating a 
hire purchase agreement he had with them. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr L was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
SMF. The agreement was for £12,740 over 60 months, with 59 monthly payments of 
£384.72, and a final payment of £394.72.
Mr Ls income was affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and SMF granted him a 
six-month payment deferral. When this ended, Mr Ls income was still affected, and he 
asked to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement. SMF didnt agree to this, and Mr L 
complained about their decision.
SMF didnt think theyd done anything wrong, so Mr L brought his complaint to us for 
investigation. While we were considering the complaint, SMF repossessed the car and 
theyre now asking Mr L to pay the outstanding balance on the agreement.
Our investigator said that, under the terms of the agreement Mr L signed, he needed to pay 
£11,546.60 (50% of the amount payable under the agreement) to be able to VT. And, 
because hed only paid £5,770.80 at the time he asked to VT, then SMF had acted 
reasonably by not allowing this.
The investigator also thought that SMF had treated Mr L reasonably by providing him with a 
six-month payment deferral. And she also thought theyd acted reasonably by repossessing 
the car when Mr L wasnt able to resume payments and repay his arrears and the deferred 
payments. And she said SMF were entitled to ask Mr L to pay the difference between the 
amount owing on the agreement and the amount the car was sold for. So, she didnt think 
SMF needed to do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree. He said that, although SMF were entitled to 50% of the total amount 
payable when the agreement was VTd, there was nothing to say that he needed to pay that 
amount before VT was accepted. And, given that the sale value of the car has now reduced 
the amount owing below 50% of the original total amount payable; because hed asked to VT 
in October 2020, then there should be nothing further to pay.
Mr L has also said that he shouldve been allowed to repay any VT shortfall in monthly 
instalments, as a lump sum payment was unaffordable at the time.
Because Mr L didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr L was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr L signed on 17 October 2018. Under the heading 
Termination: Your Rights the agreement says You have a right to end this agreement  
we shall be entitled to the return of the goods and to half the total amount payable under this 
agreement, which is £11,546.60. If you have already paid at least this amount plus any 
overdue instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to pay 
any more. 
The agreement Mr L signed was regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. And, under 
Section 100(1), this act says where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale 
agreement is terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the agreement 
provides for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any payment, to pay the creditor the 
amount (if any) by which one-half of the total process exceeds the aggregate of the sums 
paid and the sums due in respect of the total price immediately before the termination.
Based on the above, its clear that, to be able to VT the agreement, Mr L mustve paid at 
least £11,546.60, plus any outstanding payments (which would include the six-months 
payments that had been deferred), immediately before the agreement ended. And this 
means that any proceeds from the sale of the car wont count towards the £11,546.60, as 
the sale of the car would happen after the agreement ended, and not before.
As such, I dont agree that Mr L no longer has anything to pay, even though the total of the 
amount hes already paid and the sale proceeds of the car exceed £11,546.60.
At the time he asked to VT, Mr L had only paid £5,770.80. So, to be able to VT, SMF were 
entitled to ask him for the £5,778.80 needed to have paid 50% of the agreement. However, 
Ive also considered whether it was reasonable for SMF to expect him to make this payment 
as a lump sum, instead of offering him a payment plan.
SMFs system notes show that Mr L wanted to settle the agreement in February 2019, but 
this wasnt something he could afford to do at the time. And in July 2019 he told SMF that he 
was struggling to afford the payments. In February 2020, Mr L explained that he was unable 
to afford the payment due to other expenses he had to pay. 
Mr L was in arrears with the agreement at the time the payment deferral was agreed and an 
income and expenditure review that took place in August 2020 indicated that Mr L couldnt 
afford the full monthly payments. And the reduced payments he agreed only added to the 
arrears. In addition to this, further unexpected expenditure meant that, before he asked 
about to VT, Mr L couldnt make full payments or pay anything towards the arrears.Because of Mr Ls payment history, and that hed been struggling to maintain payments for 
some time, I dont think that SMF acted unreasonably by not offering him the option to pay 
any VT shortfall in monthly instalments  from the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that its 
unlikely Mr L wouldve been able to afford to repay this amount within a reasonable period of 
time, say 12 to 24 months. 
So, the most suitable option for Mr L at the time was likely to be voluntary surrender (VS), 
which SMF offered. Under VS, the car would be returned and sold, and Mr L would be liable 
for any difference between what was owed under the agreement and the sale proceeds. 
While Mr L didnt want to accept this option in October 2020, VS took place when the car 
was repossessed, as Mr L was unable to maintain the normal monthly payments and make 
any payments towards the arrears.
Given the above, Im satisfied that SMF acted reasonably, and I wont be asking them to do 
anything more. However, if Mr L is still in financial difficulties, Id expect them to treat him 
with consideration and forbearance when arranging any repayment plan for any balance 
outstanding under the agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Specialist Motor Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman