DRN-3340433
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclaycard Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard provided poor 
telephone customer service.
What happened
In early 2021, Mr B called Barclaycard several times to check transactions on his account 
but experienced problems. Hes explained that he was left waiting for around 25 minutes and 
then the call would either disconnect or he was cut off while speaking to a staff member. He 
also says that on one occasion when he got through to a staff member his query wasnt 
answered sufficiently.
Mr B says this caused him considerable upset and worry as he suffers from anxiety and 
other medical issues. So, he complained to Barclaycard and asked for £50 compensation.
Barclaycard responded to Mr B, but it didnt uphold his complaint and it didnt award any 
compensation. So, Mr B referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into things and asked Barclaycard for more information. In 
response, Barclaycard told us that due the COVID 19 pandemic its overseas call centres 
had been closed. And it had had to implement a new telephony system and enable UK staff 
to work from home. 
It accepted this will have caused all customers  including Mr B, some inconvenience as call 
waiting times were affected. But it said that all calls would have been eventually answered 
had the customer waited long enough, as no calls were disconnected at its end. It also said 
that Mr B could have logged into his account on-line.
Having considered this information and listened to Mr Bs successful call with the 
Barclaycard staff member, our investigator didnt think Barclaycard had done anything wrong 
or treated Mr B unfairly in the circumstances. 
She felt the call waiting times were due to the exceptional wider circumstances at the time, 
rather than an error by Barclaycard. She also noted that the Barclaycard staff member was 
unable to fully answer Mr Bs query as Mr B had been unable to complete the security 
requirements before personal account information could be provided. So, she didnt uphold 
the complaint and she didnt ask Barclaycard to pay compensation.
Mr B didnt accept this. He said he didnt think the investigator had looked into everything he 
told us. He said:
Barclaycard had previously paid him compensation for long call wait times when he 
raised a previous complaint. 
That he made three calls to Barclaycard  waiting over one hour in total for calls to 
be answered but was then cut off.
He had to call Barclays bank as he couldnt ger through to Barclaycard, but his query 
wasnt sufficiently answered.  
Barclaycard didnt address his complaint sufficiently.               
So, the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision.     
      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr B feels strongly that Barclaycard hasnt treated him fairly. He also doesnt think 
our investigator considered every point hed made when raising his complaint. But Ill explain 
at the outset here that my findings supersede those of our investigator. And the question 
really at the heart of everything is whether Barclaycard should pay Mr B compensation for 
what he believes was poor customer service when he contacted it by telephone. 
Consequently, I may not go into the level of detail Mr B would like. But I can assure Mr B that 
I have read and understood everything  this includes listening to the voicemail messages 
he left in response to the investigators findings and the information he provided when he 
first contacted us to set up the complaint. Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, 
I have come to the same outcome as the investigator. I think the crux of Mr Bs complaint 
can be broken down broadly into three concerns, so I will comment on these individually.
Call waiting times 
While I can understand Mr B may have been inconvenienced on the occasions that he tried 
to contact Barclaycard. And that he had to call Barclays Bank when he had problems getting 
through to Barclaycard. But that doesnt necessarily mean a compensation payment is due  
even when compensation has been paid previously for a similar complaint. 
We all have times when we face inconvenience and - given the wider circumstances at the 
time with COVID 19, I think that there was likely to be extra pressure put on many business 
telephony systems as a result. I appreciate Mr B thinks Barclaycard is using the pandemic 
as an excuse for long call waiting times. But, overall, I think the length of time Mr B was on 
hold reflects the fact that Barclaycards ability to provide its normal services was significantly 
impacted by problems outside of its control. I agree it was inconvenient for Mr B, but I think 
that reflects the wider situation as a whole.
Furthermore, telephone wasnt the only way to contact Barclaycard. I can see it has said that 
Mr B could have accessed his account on-line. While this may not have been Mr Bs 
preferred way of contacting Barclaycard, I consider it to be a reasonable alternative.
Poor service during calls
Mr B has said that some calls were disconnected before they were answered. But hes also 
said that when he did get through he was cut off when the staff member had issues with her 
computer and that another staff member failed to answer his account query in detail. 
Barclaycard has provided the recording of the call where Mr B says his query wasnt 
answered. Ive listened to this call  which includes Mr B raising his complaint about poor 
telephone service and call waiting times. And Im satisfied that Mr B was unable to fully 
complete security. Barclaycard needed to send Mr B a one-time passcode, but Mr B didnt 
have his mobile phone with him. But I think the staff member tried to help Mr B as far as he 
could in the circumstances. Im also satisfied that when Mr B said he wanted to complain about the call waiting times and 
being cut off, the staff member apologised for the inconvenience Mr B had experienced and 
took details of what had happened. So, I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong during 
this call. 
Unfortunately, there doesnt appear to be a recording of the first call Mr B has mentioned 
when he says he was cut off. But I dont dispute this happened. However, calls do get cut off 
from time to time and I think its likely this happened as staff were working from home rather 
than in the normal office environment. Overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that 
the staff member cut Mr B off deliberately - although, I do appreciate it would have been 
inconvenient for Mr B as he needed to call again. 
As I have said not all inconvenience demand a compensation payment to put matters right 
and I dont think there is a case for that here. 
Complaint Handling 
Mr B has said that he doesnt think Barclaycard answered his complaint properly. Complaint 
handling is not something this service can generally consider as its not a regulated activity. 
But as mentioned above, Mr B was able to provide his complaint points and his personal 
circumstances in detail. And Barclaycard issued him with a final response letter. 
Barclaycards written response may not have gone into the level of detail Mr B would have 
liked, but it did let him know it wasnt upholding his complaint and it explained that he could 
refer his complaint to us if he remained dissatisfied.
Overall, I know Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, but it follows I wont be asking 
Barclaycard to take any further action in respect of this complaint as I think its apology for 
the poor service is enough in the circumstances of this specific complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman