DRN-2824534
The complaint
Mr C complains that Portafina Investment Management Limited (Portafina) provided a poor 
advisory service when reviewing his pensions. And that they didnt inform him of their 
proposed fees until months into the process. 
What happened
Mr C contacted Portafina in early 2019 to arrange a pension review. He said hed been 
attracted to their proposal. He felt this had said that no fee would be charged for the review 
unless he instructed Portafina to act on their recommendations. 
Mr C had a number of pension arrangements. He returned his letter of authority permitting 
Portafina to request his pension information on 29 April 2019. It took a few months for 
Portafina to collect all of the information they needed to conduct the review. Mr C needed the 
outcome of the review to be available during October 2019. This was the earliest date he 
had the right to access his pensions. He also had a large court debt for an amount that was 
at that point unknown that hed need to pay off before the end of the year. The size of this 
debt became known during November 2019.
The information gathering concluded in September 2019. Mr C was unhappy with how long 
the process had taken. And also by how long it then took for Portafina to produce their 
report. He said Portafina told him on more than one occasion that the report would be ready 
in 2-3 weeks, but that it took 6-7 weeks to reach him.
The report was issued on 21 October 2019 and an appointment was arranged between Mr C 
and Portafina to talk through the recommendations. Portafina had recommended that Mr C 
transferred a defined benefit pension into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with 
another provider.
Mr C complained to Portafina about the funds recommended. He also complained about the 
size of the fee. He said he first learned about the fee when he received the report. It became 
apparent at this point that Portafina had failed to disclose their fee structure earlier in the 
process. Mr C also said that Portafina promised to review the funds theyd recommended.
Mr C did some research and found another SIPP provider whose fees he was comfortable 
with. He told Portafina that he needed them to provide him with confirmation that hed 
received advice, but that he wouldnt require their services for anything else. 
On 15 November 2019, Portafina issued a new report which strongly recommended that Mr 
C didnt proceed with the defined benefit pension transfer theyd previously recommended. 
They said this was because he wanted to use a SIPP provider and investment strategy that 
they didnt recommend. They told Mr C what would happen if he still wanted to go ahead, 
noting that he would be treated as an insistent client. Mr C said he was baffled by the 
report. He couldnt understand why theyd changed their minds. So he added this to his 
complaint. 
Mr C said that he offered to pay Portafinas fees so long as he could go ahead and get the 
confirmation of advice, as he needed the process to complete in time before the court order 
became due. Mr C said that at this point Portafina refused to do any further business with 
him. So he had to restart the review process with another firm. He said he paid a fee of 
around £4,200 for that process. And that he used his defined contribution pensions to meet 
the upcoming court order.
Mr C spoke to Portafina on both 19 November 2019 and 29 November 2019 about his 
complaint.
Portafina acknowledged Mr Cs complaint in writing on 22 November 2019. They covered 
what they understood he was complaining about. And asked him to contact them if he didnt 
agree with their summary of his complaint. 
Portafina issued their final response to Mr Cs complaint on 13 December 2019. They 
acknowledged their failure to disclose the fee structure and offered £250 compensation for 
their mistake. But they didnt uphold the rest of Mr Cs complaint. 
Portafina didnt agree that theyd wasted Mr Cs time. They said theyd requested information 
on 8 pension schemes. And that theyd sent Mr C a summary letter on 5 September 2019 
providing an overview of those schemes. Theyd then held a fact find meeting on 11 
September 2019. Portafina said that because Mr Cs plans totalled in excess of the lifetime 
allowance (LTA) they arranged for an adviser to discuss this in more detail with him on 2 
October 2019. They said their adviser had told Mr C he should try to meet his objectives by 
just transferring all of the defined contribution schemes but that he hadnt agreed. They said 
that Mr C had told their adviser he would prefer that only the defined benefit plan were 
considered when Portafina made their recommendation. So their 21 October 2019 suitability 
report recommended the defined benefit transfer to the SIPP they preferred.  
Portafina also explained why they felt their fee structure was fair. And noted that they 
wouldnt have been able to provide a precise calculation of fees before theyd known which 
pensions Mr C had wanted to be considered for review. 
Portafina acknowledged that Mr C wouldve liked to have been given more investment 
options. They noted he was a more experienced investor than their average client. But that 
they had still classed him as a retail client, rather than a professional client, based on the 
criteria and definition under COBS 3.5.2 of the FCA handbook. They said that the investment 
theyd recommended had been chosen in his best interests and to best match his individual 
circumstances.
Portafina also acknowledged Mr C was unhappy with the service theyd provided and the 
fact that theyd decided not to go ahead with the transaction. They said they werent 
confident that he would follow the advice theyd provided. And that this meant they couldnt 
sign a confirmation of advice form as they didnt know where the transaction was going.
Mr C wasnt happy with this response. He accepted the £250 offered as a gesture of 
goodwill, without prejudice to a further complaint. But he didnt feel that Portafinas response 
had covered all of his complaint. He said that theyd recommended a SIPP which he could 
only access with their ongoing advice, which hed clearly said he didnt need. He disagreed 
that the fee quoted was fair, as he felt the service had been advertised as free of charge. He 
said that the fact that hed only found out about the fee so late in the process had led to 
considerable stress, given the reason hed requested the review in the first place.
Mr C also said that it couldve been possible to withdraw more than 25% tax-free cash from 
one of his pensions. But that no one at Portafina had been able to give him even a vague 
outline of the criteria required to take more than 25%. He also said that he didnt know why Portafina had decided to refuse to do business with him at any price. And that hed been 
forced to start the pension review process with another provider. 
Portafina replied to Mr C on 18 February 2020. They said theyd outlined his concerns in 
their 22 November 2019 acknowledgement letter. And that theyd told him in that letter that 
he should contact them if it hadnt accurately reflected the basis of his complaint. They felt 
that theyd covered his additional points in their final response letter. And that the specific 
points hed raised were all general points that had already been discussed. They confirmed 
that they stood by their £250 offer and that they would honour this once hed returned the 
acceptance form.
Unhappy with their response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked at the following aspects of Mr Cs complaint:
The quality of Portafinas review
The advice and recommendation
The fact that Portafina changed their advice
The fact that Portafina wouldnt confirm their advice
Disclosure of fee structure and cost of fees
The fact that Mr C had to pay a fee to another provider
The time Portafina had taken to carry out the review
He didnt think that any of the aspects of the complaint should be upheld, although he did 
consider that Portafinas offer of £250 for their mistake in not disclosing the fee structure 
earlier was fair and reasonable.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He said Portafina had never told him they would 
charge a fee. And that theyd recommended an approach that required an ongoing service 
even though hed explicitly ruled one out. Mr C said that Portafina had never provided the 
further review theyd promised him. And that their investment recommendation had been 
unsuitable as it had an over-emphasis on small cap securities. Mr C also didnt think it was 
fair that Portafinas £250 compensation offer had constraints. Mr C also said that he 
wouldve expected Portafina to have advised him to use his defined contribution pensions to 
meet his needs.
Our investigator considered Mr Cs new points and issued a second view. He didnt agree 
that Portafina had never told Mr C that they would charge a fee at some point. He felt that it 
was fair and reasonable for Portafina to recommend what they deemed to be suitable for Mr 
C, in-line with his circumstances and objectives, even if that required an ongoing service of 
some sort. And that Portafina couldnt be expected to provide further reviews after the 
relationship had ended. He also didnt feel that there was anything inappropriate about the 
investment recommendation.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He made some further points which I will address in 
my decision. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will disappoint Mr C. Ill explain the 
reasoning behind my decision. 
I consider that Mr Cs complaint can be summarised as follows:
He wouldve liked more options to be included in the recommendation.
He was unhappy with the service. And he felt it was too slow. He was also unhappy 
that Portafina decided not to do business with him.
He was unhappy with the recommendation. 
He was unhappy that he never received the further review hed been offered.
He was unhappy that Portafina had changed their recommendation.
He was unhappy with the proposed initial fee. He didnt expect to have to pay any fee 
for the review service if he didnt use Portafina to enact their own advice. The failure 
to disclose the fee structure in a timely manner had delayed him and caused him 
stress.
Ill look at each part of the complaint separately.
Should more options have been included in the recommendation?
Mr C said he wouldve liked more options to be included in the recommendation. He said 
that Portafinas recommendation: was only for one Final Salary pension scheme and did not 
take account of my numerous Defined Contribution plans, even though you had spent many 
months on gathering information on them. 
But Portafina said their adviser had told Mr C he should try to meet his objectives by just 
transferring all of his defined contribution schemes but that he hadnt agreed. And that Mr C 
had told their adviser he only wanted them to consider his large defined benefit plan. They 
said that they had evidence that during a call with one of their paraplanners on 15 October 
2019, Mr C was asked to clarify which of his plans he wanted Portafina to consider for his 
tax-free cash. And that Mr C had stated, 2 minutes and 16 seconds into the call: No just the 
one thats with [administrator name], the [plan name] one. I Just want to start with that one.
Given Im satisfied that Mr C did say this, Im satisfied that Portafina acted fairly when they 
only considered the defined benefit arrangement as per Mr Cs instructions. I can see that 
they did initially recommend he use his defined contribution funds to meet his needs. So I 
dont consider that Portafina did anything wrong here.
Quality of the service provided
Mr C said that one of his pensions had the possibility that more than 25% of the fund could 
be withdrawn tax free. He said that no one at Portafina: could even give me a vague outline 
of the criteria required to take more than 25%. He also said that Portafinas turnaround 
times were very slow. He also said that Portafina refused to do business with him at any 
price without telling him why theyd made this decision. He questioned how they could 
initially recommend transferring his defined benefit pension but then change that 
recommendation to doing nothing. He said he only needed official confirmation that Portafina had given him advice and that hed chosen to ignore it. But that Portafina refused to confirm 
theyd given him advice. 
I cant find any response from Portafina on the 25% point. But I note that as Mr C had asked 
Portafina to only consider his defined benefit pension in their recommendation, this point had 
become moot. So I dont consider that Portafina did anything wrong when they didnt provide 
an answer.
Regarding turnaround times, Ive reviewed all of the requests for further information 
Portafina made to Mr Cs previous pension providers. I note that there were many requests, 
which I consider were carried out in a timely manner as soon as the letter of authority from 
Mr C had been provided. Having reviewed the entire business file, Ive found no evidence of 
avoidable delays. Ive also noted the calls held between Mr C and Portafina. From what Ive 
seen, these were held in a timely manner. And Ive not found any clear evidence of 
avoidable delays there either. Therefore I dont agree with Mr C that Portafinas turnaround 
times were slow.
Portafina decided to refuse to do business with Mr C. From what Ive seen, they did explain 
why this was the case. They said they werent confident that Mr C would follow the advice 
theyd provided. So they couldnt sign a confirmation of advice form as they didnt know 
where the transaction was going. From what Ive seen, it was reasonable for Portafina to 
take this stance. They werent willing to agree to work with Mr C unless he agreed to take 
the advice theyd originally recommended to him. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
tell them that they had to sign-off on an approach they hadnt recommended. 
Ive also considered the work Portafina did before issuing their report in October 2019. And 
the report itself. I note that they contacted all of Mr Cs pension providers to get information 
about the pensions he held with them. They also  amongst other things - carried out 
viability checks, produced comparative illustrations and calculations and looked at future 
returns and earnings. This sort of work would normally have a fee. But Portafinas business 
model means they dont charge unless theyre instructed to act upon their recommendation. 
From what Ive seen, Portafina carried out all of the necessary research I wouldve expected 
so that a thorough review could be conducted. I also consider that Portafinas October 2019 
report fairly reflected that analysis and research and was of good quality. Based on 
everything Ive seen, Ive been unable to find any fault with the service Portafina provided Mr 
C.
Was the recommendation fair and reasonable?
Mr C was unhappy with Portafinas recommendation. Hed explicitly stated he didnt want an 
ongoing advisory service. But the recommendation involved that requirement. He was also 
unhappy with the investment recommended. He said that when hed researched the funds 
recommended under the investment strategy, hed noticed a heavier than expected 
weighting in smaller capitalised companies. He queried the recommendation and said he 
was told that it would be reviewed and a possible alternative would be sent. But he said that 
no such alternative or detail of further research was ever provided.
Ive heard calls between Mr C and Portafina where theyve explained at length why they 
recommended the fund that appeared to require an ongoing advisory service. They 
explained that their recommendation didnt mean that Mr C would be tied to Portafina for 
ongoing advice. They said that he wouldnt be committed to an ongoing advisory service. 
While on the face of it their recommendation appears to ignore Mr Cs request for no 
ongoing advisory service, I dont agree that they ignored his request. I consider that they 
recommended what theyd found to be most appropriate for Mr C, after a thorough review of 
his pensions had been carried out.I also agree with our investigator that Mr C was entitled to reject the recommendation - which 
he did - without needing to pay a fee. I acknowledge that Mr C has complained that 
Portafinas refusal to sign-off on the advice theyd given him left him short of time. But note 
that Portafina did provide their recommendation in October 2019. Therefore Im satisfied that 
had their recommendation been followed Mr C wouldve been able to meet his commitments 
by the end of 2019. 
Based on the evidence, Ive satisfied that the recommendation was provided in a timely 
manner. And that it was a reasonable recommendation based on a thorough review and 
analysis. So I dont consider that Portafina did anything wrong here.
Should Portafina have provided Mr C with a further review on his DC plans?
Mr C said that he still hasnt received a full report. He said that Portafina have only given a 
recommendation for a single defined benefit scheme. And that although theyd told him that 
the report on the rest of his pensions would be sent soon, he hasnt ever received it.
He said: I still do not know to this day if they ever did a review of the DC schemes and how 
they would have affected the DB scheme but surely a full pension review is exactly that and 
is not a half now / half later review. The value of the DC schemes would surely have a 
bearing on the recommendation for the DB scheme yet they appear to have been completely 
ignored. They had a value equivalent to around 30%-40% of the DB scheme so simply do 
not accept they would have had no bearing on the recommendation. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Portafina did carry out an investigation into all of Mr Cs other 
pensions. But Mr C told them to only focus on the defined benefit pension, as the defined 
contribution pensions wouldnt provide enough cash for his needs. So the report focused on 
the defined benefit pension because Mr C requested that. 
I acknowledge that the October 2019 report does state:
You also have pension plans with [other provider names] that we will be looking at 
separately.
But given the relationship between Mr C and Portafina stopped a short time after this report 
was issued, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Portafina to carry out 
additional work for Mr C when they couldnt expect to be paid for that work. So I dont 
consider that Portafina did anything wrong when they didnt provide an additional report on 
the research theyd already carried out on Mr Cs DC pensions. 
Was it fair and reasonable for Portafina to change their recommendation?
Mr C is unhappy that Portafina wouldnt provide the sign-off he needed after hed decided 
not to follow their recommendations. Hed requested that Portafina sign-off on his defined 
benefit transfer despite them having no input in how the transfer should be invested. It 
appears that Portafina changed their advice based on that request. Their updated 
recommendation was not to progress with the defined benefit transfer. 
Portafina said: The client does not wish to follow our original advice and wishes instead to 
transfer to a [provider name] SIPP and manage his own funds, which he will do using a mix 
of equity, FI [fixed interest] and an undisclosed proportion that he will actively trade with. 
This does not align with our investment philosophy and we know from the data and 
academic research that actively managing/picking funds is high risk.
As I mentioned above, Portafina decided to refuse to do business with Mr C because they werent confident that hed follow the advice theyd provided. So they couldnt sign a 
confirmation of advice form as they didnt know where the transaction was going. Ive 
already stated that I consider it was reasonable for Portafina to take this stance. I also note 
that the October 2019 suitability report explains what Mr C would receive on payment of the 
fee. It states:
The guarantee that your entire fund is protected against our recommendation not 
being in your best interests. Should you ever need it, you have access to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service which has the power to insist we fully compensate 
you.
I consider that this further confirms that Portafina acted fairly when they refused to sign-off 
on an investment approach that they didnt recommend. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to ask Portafina to sign-off on an approach that would leave them open to paying 
compensation at a later date, when they received no fee for the advice in the first place, and 
when they had no control over the investments chosen. 
Fees
Its not disputed that Portafina made an error when they failed to send details of their fee 
structure to Mr C until they sent his report in October 2019. They acknowledged their 
mistake and offered £250 compensation for their error. 
Mr C said that the error had caused him stress due to the impending court debt. And that not 
knowing the fees until October 2019 had wasted his time. He also said that Portafina had 
added conditions onto their compensation offer when theyd refused to pay him £250 unless 
he agreed that the offer was a full and final settlement of the complaint.
Mr C said that Portafina advertise: a complete free of charge, no obligation service up to the 
point of transfer. He said that when hed decided that their fees were too expensive, he 
asked for a letter confirming that hed received advice. But that Portafina refused to 
acknowledge that theyd given advice. He said that this led to him having to pay another 
adviser £4,200 to carry out a further review. Mr C felt that Portafina hadnt treated him fairly 
when they refused to honour the service theyd advertised as free of charge.
Portafina said that they provide their clients with their charging structure clearly outlined in 
their Key Facts and in their Terms and Conditions. They said that these are emailed to 
clients before they receive their Suitability Report. But this hadnt happened for Mr C due to 
an administration error. 
They also said that the free pension review service they offer means that clients are only 
charged a fee if they want to proceed with the recommendation provided. And that 
Portafinas clients are under no obligation to proceed with advice and wont be charged a fee 
for any work completed if they decide to walk away at any point. This is what had happened 
to Mr C. 
Portafina also said that their charges are structured on a sliding scale fee, which they cap 
£19,000. They said they felt: their fee is fair, reasonable and proportionate given the level of 
work involved in reviewing defined benefit pensions and the additional business costs 
involved in securing insurance. 
Ive carefully considered what both Mr C and Portafina have said. I dont consider Portafina 
acted unreasonably when they expected to charge for the work theyd done if Mr C were to 
go ahead with their recommendations. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect an advisory 
firm to carry out a complete pension review service without any fee. And I dont consider their fees to be out of line with the market, when I consider the service that they provide. So I 
dont agree with Mr C that he shouldnt have expected to pay any fee for the review service if 
he wanted Portafina to provide him with a sign-off that theyd given him advice. 
I do agree that some compensation should be paid for Portafinas mistake in not providing 
their fee structure in a timely manner. If this had been provided sooner, Mr C wouldve been 
able to manage his expectations about the fees he would be charged if he followed the 
advice. But I dont consider that Portafinas offer of £250 is unreasonable, either in the 
amount theyve offered or the sign-off from Mr C that they require before theyll pay. I say 
this because I agree with what our investigator said. This service is still able to consider the 
compensation offered in order to determine whether it is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances, even if a business requires a full and final sign-off on their compensation 
offer. I have reviewed the offer and I do consider it fair.
Mr C paid a total of £4,200 to another provider for advice that he acted upon. But it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable to ask Portafina to reimburse him for this advice. This is because, apart 
from their failure to inform Mr C of their fees in a timely manner, I havent found any 
evidence that theyve done anything wrong.
Mr C has told this service that the delayed provision of the fee structure caused him stress. 
Im sorry that it did. But Im satisfied that if Mr C was genuinely concerned about possible 
fees, he couldve asked Portafina to provide the relevant information. Given this, I consider 
that the £250 offered is fair. I understand that Portafina stand by that offer. So I wont be 
asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman