DRN-1963814
The complaint
Mr P's complaint concerns the redress offered in respect of the mis-sale of a whole of life 
policy by a predecessor business of Phoenix Life Limited. He's represented by a claims 
management company (CMC).
What happened
Mr P's CMC complained to Phoenix that he'd been mis-sold the policy in 1991 as a means 
by which to provide financial protection for his family. Phoenix looked into the matter and 
concluded that there was no evidence that a whole of life policy was necessary. Phoenix 
acknowledged that the documentation from the time of the sale suggested that a more 
suitable recommendation for Mr P would have been a term assurance policy. 
It offered to compare the cost of the recommended policy with the cost of a 21-year term 
policy with a sum assured of £57,151 (the level at which the mis-sold whole of life policy had 
started), a term which would've taken Mr P to retirement. Phoenix found that the monthly 
cost of the term assurance would've been on average lower than Mr P had paid for the 
whole of life policy (£15.42 as opposed to £15.00 rising by 10% on the first 5 policy 
anniversaries and becoming £22.50). So, it offered this difference of £4,899.01 to Mr P. The 
CMC didn't accept this as it felt Mr P would only have required cover up to the point his 
youngest child came of age. So, it felt a comparison with a 9-year term assurance would be 
more appropriate. 
The matter was referred to this service, but our investigator concluded that Phoenix's offer 
was fair. He didn't think there was anything to suggest that Mr P would've only wanted cover 
until his youngest child reached a specific age. He felt it was reasonable to base redress on 
the assumption that Mr P would've wanted cover until retirement, so to also provide 
protection for his family against the loss of his earnings. 
The CMC remained of the view that the offer was not fair. It said, in brief;
  Mr Ps wife was also working and with no mortgage in place, there wasnt a need for 
continuing protection beyond their youngest child becoming of age.  
 There was no evidence of asking Mr P how long he wanted a policy in place for and a 21-
year term without any significant financial commitment to protect like a mortgage, is 
unreasonable. 
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter's been referred to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I've come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
As it's been agreed that the whole of life policy sold to Mr P in 1991 wasn't suitable, I'm 
considering only what represents a fair resolution to the complaint. The sale documentation 
supports a requirement for term assurance, so the issue in question is specifically what term 
should be used for a comparison, or should the redress be based on deducting the cost of 
life cover from the premiums paid to the whole of life policy and refunding any difference. 
As there was a clear requirement for term cover I see no reason not to base redress on a 
comparison with a such a policy. A refund of premiums, minus the cost of life cover provided 
by the mis-sold policy, is appropriate where it's difficult to determine with any certainty what 
term would have been used for a suitable term assurance. 
But I don't think that's the case here. It seems reasonable to me that Mr P would've wanted 
cover to retirement, which is a very common option when deciding on a suitable term when 
there's not a specific liability - like a mortgage - involved. 
As noted, the CMC has suggested a term of 9 years, but I don't think it's likely Mr P would've 
wanted cover for that limited period. He maintained the whole of life policy for significantly 
longer than that - to 2019 - and by that point the reviews of the policy had reduced its sum 
assured significantly, to less than £15,000. So, it's quite possible that had the cover 
remained at the original level - as would've been the case with a term assurance policy - he 
might have opted to maintain it for longer. 
Whilst I acknowledge the point raised by the CMC that Mr P had no mortgage in place or 
significant financial commitment his wife would have to meet, the policy would still have 
protected against the loss of his earnings. Which would have had a significant impact on his 
wife. There is no evidence that Mr P wanted cover up until his children were independent. In 
the absence of this, I believe it best to be cautious and ensure the cover is at its most useful 
level. Whilst I agree a policy providing protection until all children are independent is a 
common choice, I would need to be satisfied that was the specific requirement in this case. 
In this case, I am not. I am also satisfied that the redress calculation has been carried out 
correctly. 
So, on balance, I'm satisfied that using a comparison with a 21-year term assurance policy 
to determine the redress is fair.
My final decisionPhoenix has already agreed to pay Mr P £4,899.01 to settle this complaint, and I think this 
offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Phoenix Life 
Limited should pay Mr P £4,899.01, if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman