DRN-1790903
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2010. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ws credit card account when she applied for the card online. The PPI covered Mrs W if 
she couldnt work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that Barclays 
hadnt done enough to bring the pre-existing medical condition terms to Mrs Ws attention. 
And that, if it had done, she wouldnt have taken the policy.
Barclays didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I set out my reasons as follows:
I think Barclays made Mrs W aware that the PPI was optional and a separate product 
from the credit card and that she chose to take it. I say this because, in all likelihood, 
the online application process included equally clear options to accept or decline the 
PPI. Mrs W would have clicked on the "yes" box to confirm that she wanted it and 
then electronically signed the application to confirm what she'd selected was 
accurate. I'm not surprised Mrs W can't remember this as it took place some time 
ago.
Barclays didn't recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didn't have to make sure it was 
suitable for her.
Mrs W says she wouldn't have known what PPI was and it wasn't explained to her. I 
accept it's possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Mrs W chose to take out the policy and so appears 
to have wanted this type of cover.
Mrs W told us shed been diagnosed with a medical condition around 21 years before 
she was sold the policy.
The terms of the policy included an exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions. Mrs 
W couldnt have made a successful sickness or disability claim for any sickness, 
disease, condition or injury which you knew about or which you asked about or 
received advice, treatment or counselling for from any Doctor, during the 12 months 
immediately before the Starting Date.
We asked her a little bit more about her condition. She told us that, although she 
uses medication, she hadn't consulted a doctor or had any treatment in the two years 
leading up to the PPI application and that she'd not had to have any time off work 
because of it. This suggests to me that the condition didn't really impact her day to 
day life and that she wouldn't have expected to take long term sick leave because of 
it. So I think, in all likelihood, Mrs W would not have been put off taking out the policy 
if the pre-existing medical condition clause had been brought to her attention. I think 
she would still have taken out the policy.
Mrs W wasn't affected by any of the other exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs W would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, 
despite what she says now, I think she would still have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Barclays 
didnt tell Mrs W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Neither party provided any additional information or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to depart from my earlier 
conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank PLC does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman