DRN-3701683
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with what happened when he returned a car at the end of a hire agreement 
taken with Hyundai Capital UK Limited.
He says charges for damage should be waived as he used less mileage than his allowance.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr D acquired a new car using a hire agreement taken with Hyundai. The 
agreement was taken over 48 months and had an annual mileage allowance of 15,000  a 
total of 60,000 miles over the term.
Mr D returned the car and it was inspected in March 2022. The mileage was recorded as 
22,190 miles. Mr D was then charged for the following damage:
Rear door left scratched £175
C post left scratched £175
Rear bumper dent £95
Rear door right chips £100
Sill extension right £100
Front door right chips £100
Mr D was unhappy with this and complained to Hyundai. Hyundai said all the damage fell 
outside of fair wear and tear.
Mr D referred his complaint to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
The BVRLA gave its opinion that all of the damage fell outside of fair wear and tear and so 
Hyundai could charge Mr D for it.
Mr D then referred the complaint to our service. He disputed the charges and said Hyundai 
should waive them as a gesture of good will due to the car being returned with less mileage. 
And he said the contract terms were unfair, as a term shouldve been included to make sure 
he didnt lose out if the car was returned with a lower mileage than the allowance. 
Our investigator issued an opinion and didnt uphold the complaint. She said, in summary, 
that the damage fell outside of fair wear and tear. And she said the contract didnt include a 
provision for what happened if the car was returned with less miles than the allowance.
Mr D remained unhappy. He said, in summary, that Hyundai hadnt acted fairly and the 
contract was loaded in favour of Hyundai. . He said the complaint wasnt about whether 
Hyundai was entitled to charge for wear and tear, but rather whether it was fair for it to do so. 
He reiterated he thought there should be a term in the contract to make sure he wouldnt be 
worse off when returning the car with lower mileage and said Hyundai should waive the 
balance as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator explained this didnt change her opinion, so the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D complains about a hire agreement. Entering into regulated consumer credit contracts 
such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ds complaint against 
Hyundai.
I think the crux of the complaint here is whether it was fair and reasonable for Hyundai to 
charge Mr D for damage to the car, given it was returned with a lower mileage than the total 
allowance.
In terms of the damage itself, there is very little I can add to what the BVRLA and our 
investigator have said here. Mr D also doesnt seem to be disputing the damage itself in his 
later contact with us. 
So, Ill only very briefly comment here that Im satisfied its set out in Mr Ds hire agreement, 
which he signed, that he agreed to be held responsible for damage outside of fair wear and 
tear. Ive reviewed the photos from the inspection and compared these to the returned 
conditions schedule and the BVRLAs guide to fair wear and tear. Having done so, Im 
satisfied all the damage fell outside of fair wear and tear.
Ive very carefully considered what Mr D said about the contract. What I need to consider is if 
Mr D was misled or given incorrect information about what would happen when he returned 
the car, or if Hyundai have acted unfairly.
The contract sets out a maximum mileage the car could cover without further charge. I know 
Mr D feels another term shouldve been added into the contract for his benefit. But it isnt my 
place to tell Hyundai what it should or shouldnt include in its terms and conditions. I need to 
consider if its acted fairly and reasonably, given the terms Mr D agreed to.
The contract doesnt include a term that Mr D would get anything back if the car was 
returned with a lower mileage. And it doesnt include a term that specifically says Mr D 
wouldnt be responsible for any damage if the mileage was lower than the maximum 
allowed. 
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr D was misled, or that the terms of the agreement were 
misdescribed to him. So, thinking about everything here, I dont think Hyundai have acted 
unfairly by charging Mr D for the damage, even though he couldve covered more miles in 
the car without being charged.
I appreciate Mr Ds point that Hyundai could choose to waive the charges as a gesture of 
goodwill. And hes right in saying that it could do so. But, in this case, it hasnt. Considering 
everything, I dont think this means it hasnt acted fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman