DRN-3967998
The complaint
Mr A complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) unfairly 
cancelled his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A took out a car insurance policy with AAUICL. When he took out the policy, he also 
added his brother as a named driver. AAUICL then asked to do verification checks to ensure 
the information it had was accurate. When doing these checks AAUICL noticed that Mr As 
brother had an undisclosed driving conviction. Because of this AAUICL cancelled Mr As 
policy as he hadnt told AAUICL of the named drivers SP30 offence when taking out the 
policy. Mr A didnt think this was fair and complained. 
AAUICL initially lost the complaint and then when it did respond it said that as Mr A had 
given incorrect information about the named driver when taking out the policy, it was entitled 
to cancel the policy in line with the terms and conditions. It also said Mr A had been flagged 
due to him submitting different information about his No Claims Discount (NCD) when 
getting a quote. Mr A didnt think this was fair and complained. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that Mr 
A had provided correct information about his NCD when the policy was taken out. She also 
found that while Mr A agreed hed not disclosed the named drivers SP30, this was because 
he hadnt been told about it as the named driver thought they didnt need to declare it after 
three years. She explained that while AAUICL had chosen to cancel the policy, it hadnt 
shown what it would have done differently if the SP30 had been declared. 
Our Investigator also explained that if AAUICL wouldnt have covered the named driver, our 
approach to misrepresentation complaints is to remove the named driver from the policy. 
Because of this she, didnt think AAUICL had acted fairly and reasonably by cancelling Mr 
As policy as it put him in a worse position then he would have been in under The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). She therefore 
recommended AAUICL remove the cancellation marker, provide Mr A with a letter to say it 
had cancelled Mr As policy in error and pay him £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience cause. 
AAUICL didnt agree and maintained its position that the policy terms allowed it to cancel. As 
AAUICL didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AAUICL thinks Mr A failed to give accurate information when he took the policy out by 
declaring the named driver didnt have any driving convictions or offences. AAUICL hasnt 
provided the question Mr A was given asked when he input his details online. Ive therefore 
looked at the policy documents and within the section which has the declarations about the 
drivers it says:
Have you or any person who will drive ever been convicted (or have 
any pending prosecutions) for motoring offences or received any 
endorsable fixed penalty notices - in the last 5 years?
Next to the details for Mr A and the named driver its marked No. AAUICL has said the 
named driver had an undisclosed SP30. Mr A doesnt dispute this but has said because it 
was more than three years ago the named driver had thought he didnt need to tell him. From 
looking at this question Im satisfied its clear and that Mr A failed to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation because it was his responsibility to check the information. 
However, for AAUICL to take any action at all it needs to show what it would have done 
differently. 
AAUICL hasnt shown what it would have done if Mr A had declared the named driver had an 
SP30 when taking out the policy. Im therefore not satisfied its shown this was a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA and therefore has no remedy under CIDRA. Instead 
AAUICL has relied on a term in the policy which says that AAUICL is able to give seven 
days notice of cancellation if Mr A gives any incorrect information to AAUICL. 
The terms allow AAUICL to cancel a policy when incorrect information has been given, 
however I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to do so when that would put Mr A in a 
worse position than the remedies under CIDRA for a qualifying misrepresentation. Although 
CIDRA also doesnt say that an insurer loses its right to cancel. Given the implications of 
having a cancelled policy, I dont think it is fair and reasonable to cancel Mr As policy when 
he didnt knowingly give incorrect information without giving him the option to cancel it first. 
Mr A has told us that he asked his brother about driving offences and said he wasnt told 
about the SP30 as it was more than three years ago and so his brother didnt think he 
needed to declare it. 
As AAUICL no longer wished to continue with cover after discovering the misrepresentation, I 
think it would have been fair and reasonable to let Mr A know this and give him the option to 
cancel first. If AAUICL had done this I think Mr A would have agreed to cancel his policy, 
rather than having AAUICL cancel it, due to the implications involved. 
As AAUICL didnt give Mr A the option to cancel his policy Ive looked at how to put things 
right. AAUICL needs to remove the cancellation marker from any internal and external 
databases, it also needs to provide Mr A with a letter confirming AAUICL cancelled his policy 
in error, so he can provide it to future insurers if needed. AAUICL should also pay Mr A £100 
for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by not giving him the option to 
cancel. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited to:
1. Remove the cancellation from any internal and external databases
2. Provide Mr A with a letter confirming his policy was cancelled in error
3. Pay Mr A £100 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman