DRN-1489119
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the settlement he received from Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV), following his car insurance claim. He's also unhappy with the service provided.
What happened
Mr M's car was damaged in an incident in June 2019. LV deemed the car to be 
uneconomical to repair, and they valued it at £1,120. Mr M didn't think that was enough and 
when discussing the matter with an LV staff member he felt they must be new because they 
couldn't find his car on a car buying website.
Mr M was able to find examples of similar cars for sale for more than LV's valuation.
LV later valued Mr M's car at £1,410. This included a condition adjustment of £280, because 
it had been written off previously. Mr M said he wanted to keep the car so LV also deducted 
an amount of £199 for salvage. Mr M received payment of £1,211, which he still didn't feel 
was enough.
Mr M was provided with a courtesy car during the claim, and says there was mixed 
messaging around when it would be picked up. Mr M said this led to him staying in one 
morning unnecessarily. He also says he was called early in the morning one day and woken 
up. And that a promise of a phone call one day wasn't kept.
An investigator here looked into Mr M's complaint. They checked motor trade guides and felt 
the valuation was fair, including the deductions for condition and salvage. They also felt the 
service provided was ok, noting that LV had system problems when they'd promised a call 
back. And they said LV tried to assist in relation to the car being picked up.
Mr M didn't agree. He asked whether we'd have said the initial valuation was fair, if he'd not 
managed to negotiate an increase himself. He said his car had been fully maintained and 
serviced and that he'd spent over £1,211 on it six months prior to the incident. Mr M said the 
car shouldn't have been written off by LV, and that it could've been repaired for much less 
than LV had suggested.
Mr M felt LV could've contacted him using a different method if its phone system wasn't 
working, such as by mobile or email.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm sorry to disappoint Mr M but I'm not upholding his complaint, I'll explain why.
First of all, regarding the valuation. Our investigator explained that our service looks at trade 
guides to see whether we think a valuation is fair. Having checked those myself, I'm in 
agreement that £1,410 was reasonable in all the circumstances.Trade guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely (but not actual) selling 
prices. They use advertised prices and auction prices to work out what likely selling prices 
wouldve been. We generally expect insurers to use trade guides when valuing a car for 
claims purposes, and based on the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint, I thought it was fair 
that LV did so here. Particularly as Mr M's policy sets out that that's how they value cars.
Mr M has sent in invoices to show money spent maintaining his car, so I agree that would 
help place it towards the higher end of the trade guide valuations, as it did here. But I dont 
think it precludes LV from making an adjustment for the car having been a previous write off, 
even if it was a minor one. It stands to reason that if two otherwise identical cars were looked 
at together the one that had previously been written off would be worth less. And I don't think 
the amount deducted is unreasonable - indeed it isn't much different from the amount Mr M 
said it would cost to have that damage repaired.
I also appreciate Mr M provided examples of similar cars for sale for more. But its worth 
noting they all have a significantly lower mileage than his, and the one with the closest 
mileage was actually on offer for less than LVs valuation.
LV also deducted £199 from the settlement because Mr M chose to keep the car. I don't find 
this to be unreasonable. And from what Mr M has said about the value of spare parts it 
sounds like he might've been able to more than recoup the amount deducted. Overall, I feel 
the settlement amount paid was reasonable.
I would like to add though that if Mr M hadn't negotiated an increase himself it's likely I 
would've required LV to pay more than its original offer. I know that Mr M is also unhappy 
with LV's decision to write off his car. But it's their decision to make and often with older cars, 
Mr M's was from 2005, it's preferable to write them off.
The other issues Mr M has complained about are service related. I've listened to a number 
of calls between him and LV and I believe LV was polite and helpful throughout. That's not to 
say things ran perfectly, I acknowledge an adviser couldn't find Mr M's car on the car buying 
website. But I don't think that had a significant impact given that Mr M was able to do this 
easily himself.
I also note that Mr M didn't receive a call back when promised. Although that's not great 
service, and would no doubt be frustrating, sometimes system problems will prevent things 
happening as they should. I agree with Mr M that it would've been courteous to email him to 
rearrange the call, but I don't think the absence of this is enough to say the complaint ought 
to be upheld.
And I agree that there was a little confusion around when the courtesy car would be picked 
up, but Mr M was reassured before this that he wouldn't be charged. So whilst I appreciate 
he waited in for a morning he said he was off work anyway. So again, while this would've 
been frustrating, I don't think the level of service has been so bad as to warrant me requiring 
LV to pay compensation to Mr M. 
I do understand why Mr M complained and why he was so unhappy with the valuation, 
especially as he spent a lot maintaining his car. And I acknowledge that things didn't run 
perfectly for him on this occasion. But I don't think the level of service was as poor as he felt 
it to be. I think LV's initial offer should've probably been greater, but that it's increased one 
was fair.
My final decision
It's my final decision that I don't uphold Mr M's complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Will Weston
Ombudsman