DRN-2290022
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold her a whole of life insurance policy.
The complaint has been brought by Mrs Cs daughter, Ms K.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
Mrs C set up a whole of life insurance policy in 2002 with a firm Phoenix Life has since 
acquired liability for. The policy provides a sum assured of £3,155 for a monthly premium of 
£30. 
In November 2019 Ms K wrote to Phoenix Life raising concerns about whether the policy 
was suitable for her mother. Ms K said the policy was set up for the purpose of paying 
funeral costs but that the amount of premiums paid so far had exceeded the sum assured. 
And that she didnt think her mother wouldve fully understood the implications of the policy  
those being the requirement to continue paying premiums with there being no regard for 
inflation.
Phoenix Life didnt uphold the complaint. They said the policy is designed to insure 
Mrs Cs life and, providing premiums are paid, pay out a lump sum to her next of kin in the 
event of her passing. They also confirmed that the level of cover and premiums payable 
remain fixed throughout, as well there being no surrender or paid up value. Phoenix Life 
acknowledged Ms Ks frustration with the amount of premiums paid so far but explained that, 
depending on when the policy pays out, it can be more than the sum assured benefit. 
Phoenix Life also added that they didnt provide Mrs C with financial advice when she took 
out the policy but it was offered as part of a marketing campaign. It was therefore Mrs Cs 
decision whether to proceed with the policy. Phoenix said theyd administered the policy 
correctly and were only due to pay out £3,155.
The complaint was brought to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but she 
didnt think Phoenix Life had to do anything further. She explained that as advice wasnt 
provided, it was up to Mrs C to read the product literature to ensure the policy was suitable 
for her needs. And our investigator thought the policy terms made it clear how it worked  
including that the sum assured was payable upon death with no surrender value being 
available.
Ms K disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Ks dissatisfaction with the situation as her mother has paid more in 
premiums than the policy will pay out. But what I must consider here is whether Phoenix Life 
has acted fairly and in line with the terms of policy. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Ms K but, for the reasons Ill explain, I think they have.
Mrs Cs policy was sold by Phoenix Life by way of a marketing campaign. As financial advice 
wasnt provided to Mrs C, it was her responsibility to ensure the policy was suitable for her 
needs. Mrs C couldve sought financial advice at the time if she wished but I cant see that 
she did so. 
Phoenix Life were required however to provide Mrs C with information to be able to make an 
informed decision  thereby allowing her to understand the policy and how it worked. And, 
the policy booklet says:
9 Other restrictions

If you stop paying premiums, your policy will end and we will not pay 
any benefit (see condition 7)
We use your premiums to provide your benefits. You can never cash in 
your policy. Depending on how long your policy is in force you may pay 
more in total premiums than your estate would receive when you die.
I appreciate Mrs C may not have fully understood the risk that she could end up paying more 
in premiums than the benefit payable. But Im satisfied Phoenix Life made this clear to her 
and that there was no cash in value if premiums stopped being paid. And so, although I 
appreciate Ms Ks frustration with the situation, I dont think Phoenix Life has acted unfairly 
or outside the terms of the policy. 
At this point, I think it would be helpful for me to explain that the nature of these type of 
policies means that how long the policyholder lives for, will determine whether they receive 
more or less than the premiums theyve paid. This is a common principle with insurance as it 
only pays out when an insured event takes place. And so, in the early years of a policy being 
set up the premiums paid would be less than the sum assured. But, in Mrs Cs case, the 
premiums shes paid exceed the sum assured as she has fortunately lived for a longer 
period of time. She has however benefitted from the cover being in place while shes paid 
(and continues to pay) the premiums.
Furthermore, I understand Ms K says that her mothers intention wouldve been for the policy 
to have covered her funeral costs and that £3,155 isnt likely to be enough for this now. 
While I dont doubt this was Mrs Cs intention for the funds upon her passing, I dont think I 
can hold Phoenix Life responsible for that. As Ive said, it was Mrs Cs responsibility to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her needs and Im satisfied Phoenix Life made it clear in 
the product literature that the level of cover would not change. 
I know this isnt the outcome Ms K is hoping for but, for the above reasons, I dont think 
Phoenix Life has to do anything further.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman