DRN-3879577
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Yorkshire Building Society has added a marker about her to CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
Mrs L says that she came to this country in October 2021 as a student. She says she was 
told that she needed name and address identification to open an account. And she was told 
by someone that if she paid them £300 she could be added to a bill at the address where 
she was living. She provided this Council Tax document as proof of address to YBS. Her 
account was opened but then closed without explanation from YBS. And she later found out 
that a marker had been added at CIFAS because she had provided a false document. She 
says she didnt know that at the time and believed this to be the way things worked.
YBS said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that when Mrs L had made an application for an 
account on 11 October 2021 shed agreed to its terms and conditions. And so that necessary 
checks would be made about her identity and to verify the information provided. The proof of 
address wasnt a genuine document and so the account was closed, and the marker added. 
The reason was for false documentation. It said it understood Mrs L had moved to this 
country and this would be stressful and require adjustment. But that paying a 3rd party a 
large sum through an unofficial channel to provide a Government letter was unlikely to be 
authentic or at least shouldve been checked further by contacting the council.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the marker removed. The 
document was fake but he didnt think YBS had done enough to show that Mrs L purposely 
acted fraudulently. Mrs L had said she didnt know the bill was fake and it wasnt uncommon 
that people coming to live in this country are offered help from support groups. Mrs L 
believed that because she was contributing to bills at the address she was staying that she 
was added to this bill. He didnt think that she had been dishonest. And this marker meant 
that she was being penalised for the actions of the person providing the document.
YBS didnt agree. It said that its investigation hadnt highlighted any vulnerabilities for Mrs L 
which resulted in her providing a false document. Shed stated in a letter that shed arrived in 
the country on 3 October 2021 and said shed gone to the address in question. While shed 
said she asked questions before on a social media group she also indicated shed been told 
by someone at the address that she wouldnt be able to get a bank account without a proof 
of address. She paid a fee for her name to be added onto a document for a service she 
hadnt had or paid for. Within a week of arriving here shed a document dated 7 September 
2021 in her name only for Council Tax for 2021 to 2022. The bill confirmed a payment of 
£479.05 which shed not made. It considered she was aware that this was a false document. 
The standard requirement to provide genuine identification was also present in the country 
shed come from.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 1 December 2022 saying that I wasnt intending to uphold 
the complaint and allowing time for any further comments or evidence. I set out what I said.
I needed to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, YBS needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
It's not in dispute now that this Council Tax document wasnt genuine and was used by    
Mrs L for verification of her address to open an account. On the face of it thats sufficient for 
YBS to consider grounds for registering a marker at CIFAS for a fraudulent application using 
a false document.
Having said that it didnt ask Mrs L for her explanation at the time, and it has since been able 
to consider this and the surrounding circumstances. 
In my view Mrs L did bear a responsibility for her application. Based on her explanation she 
knew she needed to be able to verify an address. There is no evidence to support that she 
was at the address she says. But on what she says shed been there for a matter of days  
and I noted her leave to enter card for the United Kingdom had a date of 7 October 2021. 
Shed clearly been through an official process to apply for a visa and provided the necessary 
documentation for that.
I didnt think its reasonable for her not to look at the document she was presenting. As YBS 
says it was dated about a month before shed arrived in the country. It showed that shed 
paid an amount that she hadnt done. And that she alone was responsible for Council Tax 
from 2021 to 2022 on what seemed for her to be temporary accommodation. She knew that 
she needed to show that she lived there and that this was the purpose of the document. 
Shed paid money to a third party rather than to the Council. Frankly I was struggling to see 
how Mrs L could reasonably think that this was a genuine document. At best I thought she 
knew that this had been created to provide something she had to have to open an account. 
And while she may have been told that this was acceptable this seemed to come from an 
individual she didnt know well and didnt for example seem connected to any group that 
could provide legitimate advice.
Mrs L was a student, and I understood her desire to get an account. I accepted that she says 
this was a mistake on her part which she now regrets. And thats especially because she 
thinks that this is stopping her opening an account elsewhere. But I couldnt see that YBS 
has made a mistake in adding the marker as I thought its followed guidance from CIFAS. 
And that assessment hasnt changed in light of all the explanation now from Mrs L. While I 
knew our investigator had asked it if it will take a view based on the impact of the marker for 
Mrs L, its declined to do so as a gesture of goodwill. 
YBS says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mrs L used a fraudulent document to 
make an application. So, Id looked at whether YBS was fair to apply the marker, based on 
the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business 
must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. 
This essentially means that YBS needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mrs Ls account of events and the evidence YBS has provided, I was 
satisfied that YBS had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded for the 
reasons Id given. And so, I didnt have a basis to find it made a mistake or acted 
unreasonably.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
YBS didnt make any further comments.
Mrs L told our investigator how disappointed she was at my provisional decision. And that 
shed paid money towards a bill and not for the document. She said that anyone can pay a 
bill for someone else in her home country. He set out for her the stage wed reached in our 
process and that she could send in any more evidence before I made a final decision.
Mrs L sent two visa pages from passports relating to her, and I understand her husband, and 
which appear to refer to some currency amounts dated 30 September 2021. And also, some 
examples of the group chat shed referred to. She said she wasnt able to show a specific 
contact that had been involved here.
Ive considered carefully what Mrs L has said. The group chat she refers to has entries 
around accommodation and I understand exchanging money and seems to in the main 
relate to September 2022. 
I dont have anything specific as to what she may have been told in and around October 
2021, and that she did pay money towards a bill at an address she was living at. In any 
event the Council Tax document clearly didnt tie up to what she says was the position for 
the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. And it was her responsibility in using this in 
support of her application for an account.
Im afraid I dont find a basis to change my initial findings. This was a clearly fraudulent 
document and I think Mrs L reasonably knew it didnt reflect the true position. I set out the 
test for a CIFAS marker and I think YBS had grounds to apply it. So, I still dont have a 
reasonable basis to require YBS to remove it. I understand what Mrs L says about the 
consequences of the marker for her. If she doesnt accept my decision she remains free to 
pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman