DRN-1382766
 
The complaint
Miss M says Stagemount Limited (trading as QuidMarket) gave her an unaffordable loan. 
What happened 
This complaint is about a three-month instalment loan of £200 that QuidMarket provided to 
Miss M in December 2015. Miss M had problems meeting the planned repayment schedule 
and QuidMarket agreed a payment plan to assist Miss M spread the cost. The loan was 
repaid in full around seven months or so after the original due date.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint and thought the loan was correctly lent. 
Miss M disagreed so the complaint was passed to me. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
QuidMarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. 
Before lending to Miss M, QuidMarket asked Miss M for information on her financial 
situation, such as her monthly income and her outgoings  split into various categories. 
From what I can see, Miss M declared her income as £1250 and after paying her declared 
outgoings it looks as though she had a disposable income of around £470 per month. 
Miss M was due to repay the loan in three instalments and the highest repayment was 
around £107. This was the first loan Miss M had taken with QuidMarket and the checks 
QuidMarket says it carried out didnt suggest Miss M couldnt afford to repay the loan. Based 
on all the information it seems Miss M told QuidMarket and the information it recorded on her 
application, it wouldve looked like Miss M had sufficient money left after paying her other 
monthly outgoings to sustainably repay the loan. So I dont think QuidMarket was wrong to 
lend this loan. I've taken into account that Miss Ms payslip for the next month showed her actual monthly 
income could just be around £1145. And her mortgage costs were around £50 more than 
QuidMarket allowed for when assessing what she could afford. But even taking these figures 
into account, the loan still shouldve been comfortably affordable for her.
Miss M says QuidMarket shouldve known she was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to 
her, due to the other high cost loans she had outstanding. And I can see that the credit 
information shes sent us shows she had at least three other outstanding high cost loans 
when she applied for this loan from QuidMarket. 
Its unclear whether QuidMarket would've seen this information. I say this because when a 
lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesnt usually provide the same 
level of detail that a persons own credit search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that 
can depend on when other creditors have reported information and when its been recorded 
by the credit reference agency. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some information might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday 
and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, the information 
thats shown on Miss Ms own credit check, including other short term loans, may not have 
been identified by a credit check done by QuidMarket when she applied for this loan.
QuidMarket no longer has the actual credit check it did at the time. Thats unsurprising after 
so long and it isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. But I can also see that Miss M 
declared her outgoing monthly credit commitments as £100 per month. And QuidMarket took 
this into account when it made its lending decision. 
So whilst I appreciate she had other debts elsewhere, I dont think it was wrong for 
QuidMarket to rely on the information Miss M provided in relation to how much she paid on a 
monthly basis towards those debts.
Im sorry that Miss M had a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments shed 
signed up to was difficult for her. I accept that in reality Miss Ms actual circumstances 
possibly werent fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the other information 
QuidMarket obtained. But at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate 
checks wouldve required QuidMarket to ask Miss M to prove what she was declaring or 
check other information sources to verify what she had told them (or omitted to say) about 
her financial circumstances. So unless Miss M mentioned her concerns about being able to 
afford this extra borrowing alongside her other lending when she applied to QuidMarket for 
this loan, I wouldnt reasonably expect QuidMarket to have enquired about all the information 
thats shown on the credit report Miss M has sent us.  
Although she had a problem making the repayments on this loan, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for QuidMarket to lend without making any more detailed enquiries into her 
circumstances as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Miss M 
wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Miss M has said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I agree that there isnt 
any reason why QuidMarket would (or should) have known about unreported information 
held by any other lender  it isn't connected with any other lender. And I don't feel theres 
anything further I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has said already in response to 
Miss M. 
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Miss M and Im sorry. 
But I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive reached these conclusions. My final decision 
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint or make any award against 
Stagemount Limited (trading as QuidMarket). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman