DRN-3395576
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) handling of 
their claim on their landlords insurance policy. 
Where I refer to RSA, this includes their agents and claims handlers. For ease of reading 
and as hes done most of the correspondence on this complaint, Ill mostly only refer to Mr P, 
where I mean both him and Mrs P. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr P is the landlord of a property that hed 
rented out. 
In December 2019 he sought to make a claim on his landlords insurance policy which was 
provided by RSA. In summary his tenants had failed to pay their rent and ultimately removed 
all their personal possessions and left the country. Mr P wanted to obtain legal possession of 
the property so it could be rented out again. 
The claim was accepted and later, a court made an order in December 2020 in Mr Ps 
favour. In 2021, Mr P complained to RSA. He was unhappy with the overall time taken for his 
claim and the lack of updates. He believes if things had been handled better he would have 
regained possession of the property sooner. 
RSA considered the complaint and agreed there had been some delays, they initially offered 
£150 compensation but later increased this to £250. The complaint was referred to our 
service and one of our Investigators didnt think RSA needed to do more. In broad summary 
he thought the compensation offered was fair. Mr P disagrees, he believes that he has 
suffered a financial loss as a result of the delays. He asked for an Ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for essentially the 
same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr P, so Ill explain why. Our Investigator 
has already set the timeline of events out in some detail, so I wont repeat that here and will 
keep my findings to the crux of the complaint. 
In the context of the UK being placed into lockdown in March 2020 (along with the impact 
this had on the courts and their handling of cases such as Mr Ps), Im not persuaded that 
the delays RSA have accepted they caused have made a difference to when Mr P achieved 
possession of his property again. 
The section 8 notice had only expired around a week before the lockdown commenced. And 
I dont think there were unreasonable delays caused by RSA prior to that point. As our 
Investigator has explained, any claim must be assessed to ensure it meets the policy terms 
before it can be accepted. And in the case of any type of legal expenses insurance, this will 
commonly then involve a legal assessment by a law firm or solicitors. This is common 
industry practice for claims of this nature. 
I dont agree with Mr P that RSA ought to have conducted such an assessment themselves. 
RSA are an insurer, and not legal experts. So I think its fair that they rely on legal opinions 
when making decisions about a claim. Indeed, they risk not treating their customers fairly if 
they dont seek legal advice when its appropriate for them to do so. Similarly, Ive noted 
Mr Ps comments about other potential avenues he could have pursued that he says would 
have resulted in a speedier resolution. But RSA arent responsible for the day to day running 
of the underlying legal claim. That would be the responsibility of the legal professionals 
involved. Any concerns about the advice or the legal work provided simply isnt something I 
can hold RSA responsible for. RSA generally promptly communicated with the legal firms 
involved. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont have to decide if anything went wrong, RSA 
accepts it did. So all that remains is to consider whether the £250 compensation is sufficient 
to put things right. I think it is. Ive covered above why I dont believe RSAs delays impacted 
on how quickly Mr P would have been able to get his property back on the market. And 
dealing with any legal dispute (particularly involving a property and during a pandemic) is 
always going to be a difficult and stressful time. But Im satisfied that the £250 RSA have 
offered is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience their delays and service 
caused. It wouldnt be fair for me to hold them liable for the entire amount of stress Mr P no 
doubt suffered during this entire episode. If that amount hasnt already been paid, Mr P 
should contact RSA to arrange this. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman