DRN-1436823
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance) has handled his account and the information it has recorded on his credit 
file.
I will refer to Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) as 
BPF throughout this decision for ease.
What happened
Mr C took an unsecured loan from BPF in April 2012. Mr C says he experienced financial 
difficulties a few years later when he was out of work. And he says BPF put a freeze on 
payments until his was in employment again.
On 3 August 2016 BPF sent Mr C a default notice. That notice explained that he had until 23 
August 2016 to clear the arrears or BPF intended to register a default with the credit 
reference agencies. Mr C did not repay the arrears but BPF didnt register a default against 
the account at that time. Mr C continued to make his monthly payments to the account.
In 2018, Mr C missed further payments and in June 2018 a default was registered against 
the account. BPF backdated this default to September 2016  when it says it should have 
registered the default in the first place. Mr C has continued to make his contractual monthly 
repayments to the account and BPF has continued to record that the account has defaulted.
Mr C later called BPF to clear the arrears on his account and explained that he wanted to do 
this over two payments. He made the first payment but when he attempted to make the 
second repayment, he was told that the account had been passed to a debt collection 
agency and he would need to contact it to make repayments. After being passed between 
BPF and the debt collection agency, BPF decided to handle Mr Cs account itself.
In 2019 Mr C raised a complaint to BPF. As a result, BPF refunded charges that had been 
added to the account while it was in arrears. This refund repaid the arrears on the account 
so Mr C says his account should now show as up to date on his credit file. BPF said it would 
arrange for his credit file to be updated. But Mr C says this wasnt done.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that BPF was recording 
the information on Mr Cs credit file correctly so there was nothing for it to update. Mr C 
didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same reasons.
There have been several issues throughout the handling of this account but in this decision, 
Ill be addressing what I consider to be the issues central to this complaint.credit file
Mr C is aware that BPF backdated a default it registered against his account in 2018 to 2016 
 when BPF says the default should have been registered. Mr C has explained this isnt his 
concern  rather he is concerned with the way BPF is now registering information on his 
credit file.
But I have considered whether BPF made a mistake in registering the default. I can see it 
sent the correct notice in 2016 and explained what Mr C needed to do in order to prevent the 
default  repay the outstanding arrears. As Mr C didnt do that, BPF was entitled to register 
the default at that time. When Mr C missed further payments in 2018, BPF could have 
issued a new default notice but had Mr C not repaid the arrears at that time, the default 
would have lasted six years from 2018, rather than six years from 2016. So I dont think BPF 
made a mistake in choosing to backdate the default.
Mr C is unhappy that BPF is currently registering that the account is in arrears, despite the 
fact the arrears are now repaid. But Ive reviewed his credit file and the account is not 
showing as being in arrears  it is showing that the account is in default, which is correct. 
Once a default has been registered with the credit reference agencies, the default will 
remain on his credit file for six years regardless of any further payments to the account  and 
thats what appears to be happening in this instance. The account will not stop being in 
default once the arrears are repaid  it will continue to be marked as a default each month 
until six years has passed, or the debt is repaid. But I can see Mr Cs balance is updating as 
he is making his monthly repayments to the account  and thats what I would expect from 
BPF. So I dont think BPF is making a mistake in the information it is registering on Mr Cs 
credit file.
debt collectors
I realise it was inconvenient for Mr C that BPF passed his account to Moorcroft. But 
BPF was entitled to do that and it is common for this to happen when an account is 
defaulted. BPF has explained that Moorcroft didnt have all the details of Mr Cs account as it 
had been instructed to seek repayment for the entire balance, rather than the arrears. So 
while I realise this was inconvenient, I cant say BPF made a mistake in passing Mr Cs 
account to Moorcroft.
customer service
As our investigator has explained, we cant consider how BPF handled the complaint as that 
isnt covered by our rules. But I have considered the customer service Mr C was given in 
relation to this account. I can see that Mr C was given incorrect information by some of the 
agents he spoke to at BPF and I think the information it gave about Mr Cs account and the 
default could have been clearer. But I can see BPF have refunded charges of around £275 
and reversed the arrears of around £75, which is more than I would have asked it to do to 
resolve this complaint. So while I dont think Mr C received the level of service I would have 
expected, I think BPF has done enough to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Sara FalzonOmbudsman