DRN-3320022
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (MHCC) hasnt administered his hire 
agreement fairly. 
What happened
Mr D acquired a car under a two-year hire agreement with MHCC in July 2018. The 
agreement was to be paid with rentals of around £300 per month. And he paid around £90 
per month for a service and maintenance package, also under the agreement. Mr D used the 
car for driving instruction, and it had a total allowed mileage limit of 66,000. Mr D decided to 
extend the hire agreement by six months due to the uncertainty of Covid-19. And he then 
made the decision to purchase the car. 
It looks like the purchase was arranged through a third-party company that MHCC 
nominated. From what I can see, Mr D paid the third party around £5,500 in March 2021 and 
he took ownership of the car. Mr D says the purchase price was based on its mileage at the 
time of around 48,500. He says the mileage wasnt as high as it would have been had it not 
been for the impact of Covid-19 on his ability to work. 
Mr D contacted MHCC and asked for a goodwill reimbursement of £500. He thought the car 
should have been valued as if it had covered the mileage hed paid for i.e., around 80,000, 
(after taking into account the length of time he had the car). Alternatively, he requested a 
part-refund of the mileage allowance charges. He said he didnt cover as many miles as hed 
paid for. And he also highlighted he didnt have full use of the maintenance and service 
charge package for the same reason. Mr D ultimately says MHCC has unfairly benefited 
from something that was out of his control, that is, the impact of Covid-19. 
MHCC didnt agree. It said when the cars are sold the value is based on several factors 
including the mileage. And it said it was unable to refund for the unused mileage as the 
mileage of the contract is agreed up front. 
Mr D brought the complaint to our service to consider. One of our investigators looked into 
things but didnt make any recommendations. He said he couldnt look at the fairness of the 
purchase price as this didnt flow from the hire agreement. And he said the hire agreement 
clearly set out the mileage allowance. So he didnt think MHCC acted unfairly by not offering 
a refund for the unused mileage or in relation to the maintenance agreement. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said the reason he couldnt cover the mileage was because of 
exceptional circumstances. And that MHCC has unfairly gained. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say that Im sorry to hear Mr D has been impacted by Covid-19. It cant have 
been easy. And I thank him for taking the time and effort to bring his complaint. 
Mr D acquired the car under a regulated hire agreement and our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
To my mind, Mr D is essentially seeking redress in two different ways. Firstly, through a 
request for a part refund of the price he paid for the car. 
Theres nothing in the hire agreement that sets out terms for the sale of the car. The very 
nature of a hire agreement doesnt provide for the goods to be bought at the end of the term. 
Or it would likely be a hire purchase agreement. And like our investigator pointed out, it looks 
like Mr D agreed a price to buy the car via a third party that MHCC had nominated. It wasnt 
carried out under terms of the hire agreement. So I dont find I can fairly direct MHCC to 
reimburse Mr D from the sale price that was arranged, and indeed paid, through a third 
party. 
So Ive next thought about Mr Ds request for reimbursement as a result of not using his 
mileage allowance, or by making full use of his service and maintenance package. I can 
understand why Mr D feels hes overpaid for something he wasnt able to fully use. And of 
course, I can understand that his use was no doubt impacted by something out of his control 
 Covid-19. And this was exacerbated with Mr D being a driving instructor. But I have to bear 
in mind that Mr D agreed the mileage limit with MHCC when he entered into the hire 
agreement. 
Ive looked at the terms of the hire agreement and I cant see anything that says MHCC is 
required to reimburse Mr D if he didnt cover the total mileage allowance. And this is the 
same for the service and maintenance package. So, from looking at the agreement, I dont 
find there are grounds for me to direct MHCC to reimburse Mr D part of the rentals hed paid.
Finally, Ive also thought about whether theres any other reason MHCC should have done 
more seeing as though Mr D says the circumstances of Covid-19 were exceptional. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued Covid-19 guidance for car finance firms. And it set 
out the FCAs expectations for car finance firms dealing with customers whose finances 
were impacted by Covid-19. I should, however, point out that the guidance was not intended 
for agreements taken out for business purposes. But I think its important to note that, unless 
of course the agreement allowed it, the guidance doesnt say that firms must offer to reduce 
or refund rentals or payments for customers who dont utilise their full mileage allowance as 
a result of Covid-19. So even had Mr D not taken out the agreement for his business 
purposes, there would be nothing in the regulators guidance (specific for those 
circumstances that Mr D refers to) that would give me the proper grounds to direct MHCC to 
refund him some of what hes paid. 
Therefore, all things considered, while I sympathise with Mr Ds situation, Im not going to 
direct MHCC to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Simon WingfieldOmbudsman