DRN-1349358
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mrs R says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Halifax had to make it clear to Mrs R that she had a choice about it. 
But Mrs R says she wasnt given an option about PPI and didnt know it had been added to 
her card.
Halifax has sent us a copy of Mrs Rs application form for the credit card. This included a box 
to show whether Mrs R wanted to take out PPI, and there is a pre-printed cross in the box.
While the cross in pre-printed, Mrs Rs name, address, date of birth and occupation are also 
pre-printed. So I think its likely there was some conversation between Mrs R and Halifax 
before the form was printed. And, based on what I understand about Halifaxs sales 
processes at the time, I think its likely it was made clear in this conversation that Mrs R had 
a choice about the PPI.
So I think its likely Halifax did make it clear to Mrs R that she had a choice about the PPI. 
And that Mrs R chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs R, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve 
been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on her family or 
any savings she had if she wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for her, Halifax had to give Mrs R clear information about the 
PPI policy. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But, 
for the same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the PPI would have been useful 
for Mrs R if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs R off taking it out.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman