DRN-2943812
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how Santander UK Plc administered her credit card.
What happened
In January 2021, Mrs B asked Santander to change the statement date for her credit card 
account to the 1st of each month. She did so by using Santanders online chat function.
 
Despite her request, Mrs B didnt receive a credit card statement on 1 February or 
1 March. Mrs B was concerned that, because she hadnt received her statements, she might 
have missed repayments and her credit file would be affected. So, on 4 March, she 
contacted Santander to complain.
 
Mrs B spoke with an advisor, again using the online chat function. She questioned where her 
statements were, and why they hadnt been produced as shed requested. Mrs B also asked 
to speak with a manager about the situation, but one wasnt available to call her. Unhappy 
with how Santander had dealt with the issue, Mrs B raised a formal complaint during the 
conversation.
 
Santander issued its final response on the same day. In summary, it acknowledged that 
January 2021 was the last statement it had produced Mrs B  which shed paid. It confirmed 
no further billing statements had been produced, so Mrs B hadnt failed to make any 
payments because none had been requested. Santander reassured Mrs B that no 
detrimental information had been reported which would affect her credit file; that her 
payments were up to date, and that she wasnt in any arrears. Lastly, it provided her with her 
next billing date.
  
Mrs B remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to our service. She said she was 
very concerned about what had been reported on her credit file, and that she was unhappy 
Santander had said shed asked to change her statement date twice  when shed only 
asked once.
 
An investigator here looked at what had happened, but she didnt think Santander needed to 
take any further action. She said, in summary, that she understood Mrs Bs frustration at not 
receiving statements when she expected  and she acknowledged Santander hadnt 
provided a specific reason why things had gone wrong. But, that said, the investigator 
concluded Mrs B hadnt suffered a financial loss as a result  and that the issue hadnt had 
any impact on her credit file.
 
Mrs B remained unhappy. She said the whole episode had been stressful and unnecessary, 
so she asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
As an agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mrs B feels very strongly about what happened. Ive summarised the complaint in 
far less detail, but I dont intend any discourtesy by this. Rather, it reflects the informal nature 
of this service.
 
Ill begin by explaining that  as part of its submission to this service  Santander has said 
amendments were made to Mrs Bs billing cycle in February and March. It cant explain why 
this happened, but it has acknowledged the amendments werent done because Mrs B 
asked for them. She did, indeed, only ask once in January. In any event, it seems its 
because of those unexplained amendments that no bill was produced  and no statement 
was sent to Mrs B asking her to pay. 
With that in mind, I dont think I need to make a finding on whether something went wrong  
ultimately, Mrs B didnt receive her statements when she requested them  and further 
amendments were made to her billing cycle without her request. So, in this decision, Ive 
considered the impact Santanders actions had.
 
The main concern for Mrs B was around potential harm to her credit file. I can understand 
why this would worry her, and I appreciate shes keen to ensure shes not penalised unfairly 
by not making repayments for which she didnt receive a billing statement.
  
Both Mrs B and Santander have provided evidence which allows me to review whats been 
reported and  from what Ive seen  no missed or late payments have been recorded. Nor 
is there anything to suggest Santander consider Mrs B to be in arrears. So, with all of that in 
mind, Im satisfied no adverse information has been applied to Mrs Bs credit file unfairly; as 
a result of Santander not producing a billing statement in February or March.
 
I know Mrs Bs other key concern is that she had to spend time contacting Santander again 
when she realised something was wrong. And I can understand this wouldve been 
frustrating given she was quite clear with her initial request to change the statement date. 
That said, having read a transcript of the web chat from 4 March, I think the problem was 
acknowledged and investigated quickly. The transcript shows me that the first Santander 
representative tried to identify the issue  and they helped Mrs B raise a formal complaint on 
the same day. They offered alternatives when Mrs B couldnt speak to a manager 
immediately and apologised several times for the inconvenience.
 
Further, once through to Santanders complaints team, the web chat transcript shows me 
Mrs Bs complaint was investigated immediately. The advisor provided an explanation as to 
what had happened  setting out that Santander hadnt produced billing statements since 
January asking her to pay. So, essentially, there were no expected payments for her to miss 
 and they also reassured Mrs B she wasnt in arrears. Lastly, the advisor confirmed nothing 
detrimental had been reported to her credit file.
 
So, while I dont doubt Mrs B wouldve found it frustrating having to contact Santander again, 
I think both conversations  with the initial advisor and the complaints team  were handled 
reasonably and fairly in the circumstances.
 
In discussion with our investigator, Mrs B has said this is more of an administrative service 
issue than a financial one. As Ive said above, its clear to me that things couldve gone 
better. 
But its important to keep in mind that our service isnt a regulator, and our role isnt to punish 
a business for its mistakes. Santander apologised several times throughout the web chat 
conversations with Mrs B. And given what Ive set out above, Im satisfied it investigated 
quickly when Mrs B reported the problem in March; has provided an explanation for what happened and hasnt unfairly impacted Mrs Bs credit file.
 
Overall, I know this isnt the answer Mrs B was hoping for. But, for all the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont require Santander to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman