DRN-3236096
The complaint
Mr H, through his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from Everyday Lending, here is a brief table of loans approved for Mr H. 
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentLoan Status
Loan one June 2016 £6,000 36 months £290.96 Settled using 
funds from 
Loan 2
Loan two January 2018 £10,100 36 months £397.39 Settled March 
2019
Gap in lending 
Loan three July 2021 £3,700 48 months £180.79 Outstanding
After Mr H had complained, Everyday Lending issued its final response letter (FRL) dated 
4 August 2021 in which it explained all the checks it had carried out, and the information it 
had gathered from Mr H as well. It looked in detail at his bank statements and concluded that 
it had lent responsibly.
After he had referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service one of our 
adjudicators looked at the complaint. Her first view was that Everyday had done the right 
checks and had carried out the appropriate searches for loans 1 and 2. But by loan three, 
she felt that Everyday should not have lent to Mr H and needed to put things right for him. 
At that stage, our adjudicator had been informed that loan 2 closed a relatively short time 
before loan 3 was approved. However, Everyday Lending corrected that detail and explained 
that loan 2 was repaid early and sent a statement of that account. It showed Mr H paid off a 
£7,000 lump sum for loan 2 in March 2019. Everyday also made the point that Mr H had 
never indicated he had had any difficulty paying off loan 2. 
That led our adjudicator to review the complaint as with a significant gap in lending between 
loan 2 and loan 3, her view altered. She felt that loan 3 was to be treated as if it was a new 
chain of lending and having reviewed all the information she did not think that Everyday 
Lending had lent irresponsibly.
Mr H disagreed but gave no reasons as to why and wanted the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two questions that I need to 
answer to decide Mr Hs complaint fairly and reasonably. These are:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr H would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.Mr Hs complaint form says that he is complaining about home credit loans and the narrative 
in that complaint form does read more like a narrative for a multiple home credit loans. 
Whereas Mr H was approved for three loans with Everyday Lending which are of a different 
nature to home credit. And so the complaint Mr H has made does not seem to give any 
background reason for complaining about these loans. 
And I notice that Mr H instructed his claims management company (CMC) to represent him 
about the irresponsible lending complaint around May 2021. And yet loan 3 was applied for 
by Mr H around 20 July 2021. Then a week after taking the loan he complained to Everyday 
Lending. I find that an odd sequence of events and I have looked at that carefully. 
Everyday Lending carried out some checks before it lent to Mr H. This included asking for 
details of his income and expenditure, carrying out a credit check, requesting a payslip and 
bank statements. It calculated Mr Hs regular living expenses using statistical data and 
assessed his monthly credit commitments. Ive seen a summary of the information gathered 
by Everyday Lending, including the credit report and bank statements provided to it at the 
time. From what Ive seen, I think the checks that it carried out before lending to Mr H were 
reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
For Loan 1 I think that the checks carried out and the information it obtained about Mr H 
were detailed and showed that Mr H was able to afford this loan. The reason for taking the 
loan was to pay of his home credit loan of around £5,000 which was costing him £400 a 
month. And by doing that it seems that Mr Hs repayment of this loan at just under £291 a 
month meant that he had a slightly better cash flow albeit he still had a debt to pay off with 
Everyday Lending.
Loan 2 was for a much larger sum. And because of that I have looked at all the details I have 
about Mr Hs finances carefully. And I can see from the loan 2 agreements and memoranda 
that Mr H paid off around £4,000 on loan 1, he received around £6,000 in cash and hed told 
Everyday Lending that he wanted to buy a car. And I can see from the bank statements that 
Everyday Lending had received from Mr H that a £200 payment was made to car sales place 
just before he applied for the loan in January 2018. So that may well have been the deposit 
for the car. Even if I am wrong on that, not a lot turns on it  its another piece of detail which 
seems to fit with Mr Hs reason for the loan.
For Loan 2, Everyday Lending had information and had seen Mr Hs bank statements and 
payslips to show that he earned around £1,496 (rounded sum) after tax from his job, and 
around £1,065 (rounded sum and a monthly figure) from his pension. These added up to 
around £2,561 a month total income, and his mortgage was relatively low having lived in the 
property for many years. It was around £454 a month. He had the Everyday Lending loan 1 
outstanding which was going to be absorbed into loan 2, and he had taken another credit 
commitment with a retailer costing him around £74 a month. So Everyday Lending used a 
formula to cover his usual expenses, plus it calculated that Mr H had about £1,137 left and 
then deducted the £397.39 a month to cover the new loan 2. Everyday Lending thought that 
Mr H would have had around £739 a month left. So, it concluded he could afford loan 2.
I note that Mr Hs bank statements do reveal gambling transactions, a subscription to a 
racing TV channel and a weekly lottery cost all of which came to not insignificant sums over 
the month from 20 November 2017 to 19 December 2017  just before he applied for loan 2. 
And I have seen an account note that Everyday Lending had noted these transactions but 
must have decided it was not enough to be of concern. I have thought about this carefully, 
and it is not for us to decide whether this spending on betting and gaming sites and TV 
channels and lotteries was controlled spending by Mr H or an issue for him. He has never 
raised it and as Everyday had noted it and chosen to lend regardless it knew the whole picture. Mr Hs overall debt situation was not bad and his bank balances rarely showed he 
was in the red. Mr Hs spending appears to have been controlled. 
The gap before loan 3, does break the lending chain and the fact Mr H had already decided 
to instruct his CMC before applying for it is a feature I have considered carefully. It does not 
seem to have been a logical sequence of events. 
Added to which, Mr Hs reason or the loan  solicitors fees  was documented. These details 
were provided to Everyday Lending and they have been sent to us. I have read that the 
litigation and/or sale of an asset (whatever his solicitor was doing for him) did include an 
opportunity in the future to either recoup the fees from the other party in a costs order and/or 
that the fees could be covered by the equity. 
And there was a record that Mr H had explained the situation to Everyday  New loan to pay 
final solicitors bill ahead of sale of Matrimonial property in [town] which should complete with 
a month. His share of the sale proceeds will be approx £250k.
This explanation plus the correspondence between Mr H and his solicitor do show that the 
loan was likely to be for a short term cash flow reason and not because of any other reason. 
Considering Mr Hs explanations to Everyday Lending above I really cannot see how this 
approval for loan 3 could be viewed as an irresponsible decision and I reject Mr Hs 
complaint for loan 3. 
But over and above that  I have reviewed what Everyday carried out as proportionate 
checks, calculating his income, expenditure and reviewing his banks statements in 2021. His 
total income appeared to have increased to around £3,265. Mr Hs expenditure on mortgage, 
living expenses and creditors came to around £1,550.78. The new loan 3 was to be a 
payment of just under £181, and so that left a disposable income of around £509.  
I noticed that Mr H seems to have taken out a new mortgage which fits with the narrative that 
the other matrimonial home was being sold. And I can see he had more loans than when he 
was applying in January 2018 for loan 2. But Everyday was aware of these and calculated 
them into its affordability assessment. 
Mr Hs bank statements for 15 May to 14 June 2021 show that his bank balance never 
dropped much below £300 to £400 and often was much higher than that. This demonstrates 
that Mr H had disposable income. 
Ive also thought about whether Everyday Lending acted unfairly in some other way and 
I havent seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman