DRN-2353985
The complaint
Ms F complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has not fairly compensated her for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms F complained to Aviva about a PPI policy sold to her with a shopping account.
Aviva upheld the complaint and offered Ms F total compensation of £1,657.56. However this 
was not paid until several weeks later. 
Aviva later apologised for the late payment and paid a further £17.39 interest due to the late 
payment of the compensation.
Ms F remains unhappy with Avivas compensation payment. She says the PPI caused her to 
fall into financial difficulties which led to the shopping account being sold to third party debt 
collectors. Ms F says this caused her health to suffer. Ms F has also questioned why she 
wasnt told to make a claim on the PPI when she fell into financial difficulties. She has also 
raised questions about the level of commission received by Aviva when it sold her the PPI.
An adjudicator from this service thought the  compensation paid by Aviva was fair. Ms F 
disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont look 
into how the PPI policy came to be sold to Ms F. In this decision I am looking at whether the 
compensation paid by Aviva is fair and has been calculated in the way Id expect.
Where a PPI is found to have been mis-sold this service would expect the business to return 
the consumer to the financial position they would be in if the PPI had not been sold. That 
generally involves the business refunding all the PPI premiums paid together with any 
interest or charges caused by the PPI. Id also expect the business to pay compensatory 
interest calculated at 8% simple for the time the consumer has been out of pocket.
Ive looked at the way Aviva calculated the compensation it set out in its offer letter.
I can see Aviva refunded all the PPI premiums totalling £482.95. Aviva also refunded the 
interest charged because of the PPI premiums, this amounted to £312.26. It also refunded a 
£20 charge incurred because of the PPI.
I can also see Aviva has added compensatory interest for the time Ms F was out of pocket. 
This totalled £842.35 (net of 20% tax). 
So the total offer was £1,657.56. Because Aviva took some three months to pay the 
compensation it added a further £17.39 in compensatory interest.
Looking at the way Aviva calculated the compensation, it has done so fairly and in a way Id 
normally expect a business to do in a case like Ms Fs.
commission
I note Ms Fs representative has raised the question of commission received by the seller of 
the policy. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has issued rules and guidance regarding 
complaints about undisclosed commission on PPI sales. However this affects PPI policies 
where the PPI was found not to have been mis-sold for any reason other than the 
commission not being disclosed. The usual redress in cases affected by this is for the 
business to refund that part of the premium where the commission exceeded 50% of the 
premium.
But in Ms Fs case Aviva has fully upheld the complaint and has refunded all the PPI 
premiums to Ms F . So Ms F has already received back 100% of the premiums including any 
portion of the premiums that was used for commission purposes. So Ms Fs complaint would 
not be affected by the FCAs ruling on commission and she is not due any further 
compensation for this.  
other consequential losses
Ms F believes she should receive further compensation for consequential losses she 
suffered due to the sale of the policy. 
Ms F says the sale of the PPI and the premiums she paid caused her to fall into arrears with 
the shopping account and ultimately suffer financial difficulties. Ive thought about this but in 
order to uphold this part of the complaint Id need to be satisfied that the PPI was the major 
cause of Ms F getting into difficulties with the account.
I can see that in total Ms F was charged £482.95 in PPI premiums over the lifetime of the 
policy. But I can see that when the account was passed to third party debt collector the 
arrears on the account were £1,167.68. So it seems likely to me that even if the PPI had not 
been sold, Ms F would still have encountered similar financial difficulties with the account 
ultimately being passed to a third party.
Ms F has told us she didnt make a claim on the PPI policy when she got into financial 
difficulties because she was unaware the PPI existed. Ms F says Aviva should have told her 
about the policy. 
The events happened many years ago so I cant know what was said to Ms F at the time. 
But I note the PPI policy was sold to Ms F twice , once in 1996 (it was cancelled in 1998) 
and then again in 2001. And the PPI premiums were charged to the account as purchases, 
so it is likely they would have appeared on Ms Fs statements. So I think it is most likely 
Aviva made Ms F aware of the policys existence, at least at the time it was sold and via her 
statements.
I also note there is a record on Ms Fs statement records for May 2003  that the Citizens 
Advice Bureau (CAB) had written to Aviva on Ms Fs behalf. And it seems to me likely that 
CAB would have checked to see if Ms F was able to make a valid claim on any insurance. 
It could be that Ms F didnt claim on the PPI because she was unable to due to her 
circumstances and the policy terms and conditions. This is the reason why some PPI were mis-sold. And Aviva has already calculated compensation for the mis-sale of the policy. In 
any event I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Aviva responsible for Ms F not making a 
claim on the insurance.
Ms F has also complained about the way Aviva treated her when she encountered financial 
difficulties. In this decision Ive looked at the PPI- related issues, Ive looked at whether the 
PPI was the cause of the financial difficulties and Ive found it wasnt. Ive not looked at how 
Aviva treated Ms F when she fell into arrears and her account was passed to a third-party 
debt collector. If Ms F feels Aviva treated her unfairly she should contact Aviva about this in 
the first instance.
Finally I note Ms F first complained to Aviva in July 2019. Aviva made an offer in December 
2019 which it paid in February 2020. Whilst there were some delays in dealing with Ms Fs 
complaint I dont think the delays were unreasonable given the volume of PPI complaints 
Aviva and other businesses were dealing with at the time.
In summary , I think the compensation paid by Aviva has been calculated the way Id expect 
it to have been carried out. And I think its fair compensation for the mis-sold PPI. I dont 
think the PPI caused Ms F to encounter financial difficulties so I dont make any further 
award against Aviva for any consequential losses.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, Aviva Insurance Limited has paid fair 
compensation to Ms F and I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman