DRN-4291086
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money she lost as part of 
a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only refer to some key 
events here.
In August 2021 Mrs A was contacted by someone purporting to be from a legitimate crypto 
exchange platform offering to help her recover funds shed lost previously as part of a crypto 
investment scam. This unfortunately also turned out to be a scam.
The following payments were made to a crypto exchange (Kraken) and my understanding is 
that the funds were then transferred on to the scammer that I will call B.
Transaction 
Number Date Amount Merchant Running Total
1 17/08/2021 £1,455 Payward £1,455
2 18/08/2021 £4,098 Payward £5,553
3 19/08/2021 £4,680 Payward £10,233
4 19/08/2021 £4,640 Payward £14,873
5 20/08/2021 £4,600 Payward £19,473
6 20/08/2021 £4,589 Payward £24,062
7 27/08/2021 £19.99 Amazon £24,082
Mrs A made a complaint via a representative to Monzo and requested that the above 
transactions be refunded. Monzo declined to do this.
One of investigators looked into this matter he initially did not uphold this complaint. But after 
more information was provided by both parties, he decided that Monzo should have 
intervened at transaction 4 and had it done so Mrs A would have explained that she was 
making a payment to B to help her recover funds she had previously lost as part of a scam. 
She therefore recommended that transaction 4,5,6 should be refunded. He did not think that 
transaction 7 was likely part of the scam.
Monzo said in summary, the payments were not out of character as Mrs A had a short 
history of trading in cryptocurrency over a few weeks and it does not believe that Mrs A 
would have been forthcoming about how the account was opened and exactly who made the 
transactions. 
So, this complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, from what I can see I dont think payment 7 was likely part of a scam as it seems to 
have been a Mastercard payment to Amazon. So, I am not going to recommend that this 
payment be refunded,
There is some debate over whether Mrs A authorised the other payments in question, but 
given the information provided by both parties I think on balance that she probably did make 
the payments, but it was done using the instructions of B telling her what to do.
At the time Mrs A made her payments, banks were expected to process payments a 
customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should 
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
There is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and 
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every 
transaction.
This was a very sophisticated scam and Mrs A had been introduced to what appeared to be 
a way for her to recover funds she had previously lost as part of a scam. The documents she 
was sent looked professional. 
All of the payments in dispute (bar 7 which I am not satisfied was part of the scam) were 
Faster Payments sent to a well-known crypto exchange. So, its reasonable for me to 
conclude that Monzo ought to have known that Mrs A was likely purchasing crypto at the 
time she sent these payments. Ive also thought about whether there was anything else 
about the payments which ought to have concerned Monzo. 
The first three payments
I agree with our investigator, and I dont think I can fairly say that the first three payments 
were off a sufficient size for Monzo to have intervened. Also the account was a new account 
so Monzo could not compare these transaction with Mrs As usual spending habits.  
Payment four
I do however think payment four, when taken cumulatively with payment three ought to have 
warranted an intervention from Monzo. Payment four represented a total of £9,320 on the 
same day to a relatively new payee for Mrs A. 
Monzo has said Mrs A would have seen a new payee warning when she sent her first Faster 
Payment. Ive read the contents of the warning Mrs A would have seen and I dont think it 
was relevant to the investment scam shed fallen victim to.Monzo confirmed it didnt intervene and I think it was a missed opportunity to do so. If Monzo 
had intervened (as I think it ought reasonably to), Id have expected it to query with Mrs A 
what the purpose of the payment was. I think shed have likely explained she was 
purchasing crypto in order to recover funds that she lost due to a scam. Id also have 
expected Monzo to query whether she was doing this upon the advice of a third party. I think 
this would have prompted Monzo to highlight that it was likely that she was being scammed 
as I am unaware of any situation whereby a consumer has to send crypto to a third party to 
recover funds from a previous scam.
So, before payment four was actually processed, Mrs A would probably have stopped in her 
tracks. But for Monzos failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mrs 
A would probably have not lost this and the subsequent payments.
Ive also thought about whether Mrs As actions contributed to her losses. Despite regulatory 
safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take responsibility for their 
decisions.
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mrs A should share blame for what happened. As I explained, this was a sophisticated scam 
and I think Mrs A believed it was legitimate. The documents provided by B looked real and 
their communication was convincing. So, I dont think that Mrs A should share blame for 
what happened.
Ive considered whether Monzo could have recovered any of Mrs As payments. But given 
that the payments were sent to a crypto exchange and were then forwarded on to B I dont 
think that any recovery could have been made or that the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
applies in this instance.
Putting things right
1) Refund transactions 4,5,6 
2) Add 8% simple interest, per year, on this amount, from the date of the payments, to 
the date of settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax)
My final decision
Monzo Bank Ltd should refund payments 4,5,6 It should also pay 8% simple interest, per 
year, on this amount, from the date of the payment, to the date of settlement (less any 
lawfully deductible tax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman