DRN-3089147
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about the overall service she received from AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) following her car being damaged as a result of a non-
fault accident.
What happened
Mrs Ls car was damaged while parked and unattended. She contacted AAUICL on 4 March 
2021 to notify it of the claim and go through the available options. 
When Mrs L spoke to the AAUICL representative she was told that her car was likely to be 
considered a write off and that as the accident was likely to be recorded as a non-fault 
accident, she was also offered an additional free of charge policy with AAUICL called an 
after the event insurance. This policy would protect Mrs Ls excess and provide her with a 
like for like replacement vehicle.
Mrs L accepted the policy offered by the representative, but she has told us she was 
concerned over the decision to write off her car.
Once Mrs Ls car was delivered to the salvage agent it was assessed and considered 
economical to repair on 10 March 2021. However, Mrs Ls car was not sent to the repairing 
garage until 16 March 2021.
A replacement car was provided to Mrs L throughout the claim process, but she is unhappy 
about the advice she was given during her first call with AAUICL, the service she received, 
and the delays caused. 
Our Investigator agreed that Mrs L was given misleading information when she first 
contacted AAUICL. He also thought AAUICL had caused unnecessary delays and that the 
service was below what Mrs L should have expected. Although AAUICL had offered Mrs L 
£30 compensation our Investigator didnt think this offer represented the overall trouble and 
upset AAUICL had caused Mrs L. He suggested AAUICL should pay Mrs L a further £70 
compensation.
AAUICL disagreed with our Investigator. It didnt think we could consider the actions of AA 
Accident Assist under this complaint. It also thought the £30 compensation offered was 
reasonable.
As neither side could agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to confirm that our Investigator is correct. I am able to consider the 
actions of AA Accident Assist against AAUICL. AAUICL were the underwriters of both Mrs 
Ls motor insurance policy and the free of charge policy she was offered when she made her 
claim. AAUICL chose to appoint AA Accident Assist to act on its behalf and therefore take 
responsibility for its actions. Mrs L did not have a separate contract with AA Accident assist. 
Throughout the remainder of this decision I will refer to AAUICL when I am talking about 
AAUICL, or any of its agents.
Mrs L called her insurer AAUICL following damage being caused to her car by a third party. 
Mrs L explained that a third party had hit her car while parked. I think its fair that AAUICL 
advised Mrs L that it was likely the claim would be a non-fault claim and discussed her claim 
options.
When Mrs L described the damage to her car it consisted of a damaged headlight, dents, 
scratches and a damaged grill. The advisor explained several times that even on the most 
conservative assessment, according to the simulation software Mrs Ls car would likely be 
written off.
Im not convinced that the information the advisor gave Mrs L was a fair assessment of the 
damage she had described. AAUICL also appear to agree that this is the case. In AAUICLs 
response to Mrs Ls complaint it accepted that although the software stated the car would 
likely be a write off, that its advisor should have used more common sense and even asked 
Mrs L for photographs of the damage that she had told him were available. 
Considering Mrs Ls car had been recently damaged and that any claim will cause a certain 
amount of stress I think it is likely that when Mrs L was told her car would likely be written off 
it caused her further unnecessary worry.
AAUICL has also confirmed that there was a delay following Mrs Ls car being assessed as 
economical to repair and that it should have been taken to the repairing garage sooner. I can 
see that Mrs L made several calls to chase information. I am not surprised Mrs L found it 
necessary to make these calls considering she had been told her car would likely be written 
off from the outset of her claim.
It appears Mrs Ls car was at the salvage yard between 8 March 2021 and 16 March 2021 
when it was taken to the repairing garage.
It is clear that the overall service Mrs L received, and the delays, would have caused Mrs L 
unnecessary trouble and upset that AAUICL could have avoided. I dont think the offer of 
£30 to compensate Mrs L for the actions of AAUICL fairly compensates her for the service 
she received, and I think AAUICL should have to do more to put things right.
Putting things right
I agree with our Investigator and I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to 
put things write by increasing its overall offer of compensation from £30 to £100.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2021.
 
Terry WoodhamOmbudsman