DRN-3814254
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Allianz Insurance Plcs handling of a claim made under his Landlord 
Insurance policy.
All references to Allianz include its appointed agents.
What happened
What follows is a summary of the key points relevant to this complaint: 
Mr A owns and rents a number of properties. In around 2018, Mr A made a claim for 
an escape of water to one of his properties, which was unoccupied at the time.
Allianz rejected the claim as it said certain policy conditions hasnt been met. The 
matter was referred to a third party whod arranged the policy for Mr A. Another 
ombudsman subsequently upheld Mr As complaint against the third-party. They 
directed that a loss adjuster be jointly appointed to decide what Allianz wouldve paid 
had the claim not been rejected.
The ombudsman didnt consider Mr As loss of rent because they didnt have the 
information to do so in the circumstances; for example, the extent of the repair works 
or how long these would likely take. So, they said Mr A should raise this for 
consideration once the works were completed.
Sometime later, Mr A approached Allianz to claim for loss of rent. Allianz said that 
whilst loss of rent wasnt strictly covered by the policy (due to it being unoccupied at 
the time of the loss), it was willing to consider making a payment in the 
circumstances.
Allianz asked Mr A for further information to support his loss of rent claim including:
oWhat date the repairs were completed.
oWho completed the repairs, and evidence of a final invoice from the builder.
oThe earliest date a new tenant occupied the property following the 
unoccupancy. Plus, proof of payment of their first months rent and their 
tenancy agreement.
oThree months proof of payments prior to the unoccupancy.
oAdditional evidence such as tax returns or a letter from an accountant to show 
Mr A received no funds for the period the property was unoccupied.
Mr A didnt provide the information Allianz asked for and referred the matter to our 
service. He said Allianzs request was unreasonable in the circumstances. And he 
wanted Allianz to settle his loss of rent claim in full.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
They concluded Allianz had acted reasonably when requesting evidence of the loss 
of rent Mr A had incurred. They acknowledged that it might not be possible for Mr A 
to provide all the information requested, however, as much information as possible 
should be given, and they werent satisfied that had been done.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He asked what evidence 
he needed to provide for the claim to succeed. And he strongly feels that the delay in 
the settling of the escape of water claim directly impacted the time the property was 
unoccupied.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I consider the merits of the complaint, I think it would be helpful to reiterate the role of 
our service in circumstances such as this.
Our service is informal and impartial. And were here to resolve individual disputes between 
parties. 
Much of Mr As evidence concerns matters that have previously been considered and 
decided by our service. So, I wont be revisiting those here. 
I also wont comment on what evidence Mr A needs to provide for his loss of rent claim to 
succeed. Our service isnt set up to act in a claims handling capacity, so this falls outside of 
my role and remit. Instead, Ill focus on whether Allianzs request for evidence is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr As policy states We will indemnify You for 1. Rent (including ground rent and 
management charges) You have to pay or should have received but are unable to recover.
As I read it, this means Mr A is entitled to any loss of rent that he should have received. So, 
if the property was unoccupied at the time of the loss, this means he wasnt receiving rent.
However, Allianz has agreed to look at a potential loss of rent payment if Mr A can evidence 
his losses. And based on everything Ive seen; Im persuaded that the overall circumstances 
of the claim do lend weight towards Allianz considering this. I say this because it has been 
acknowledged that there were delays in settling the claim which may have contributed 
towards Mr A being unable to rent out his property.
Ive considered the extensive evidence Mr As provided our service about his circumstances. 
This includes his recordings1 of phone calls with Allianzs staff.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same conclusions as our investigator here. Im 
persuaded that Mr A has shown when the previous tenants left the property. And I agree that 
Mr A was most likely delayed from completing repairs to the property because of the delay in 
receiving the cash settlement.
1 Usually, I would dismiss such evidence without proof that consent had been provided by the party 
being recorded (in line with GDPR). In the interest of fairness, I asked Allianz if I could consider the 
calls in order to take Mr As concerns into account. Allianz gave me consent to do so.But from the notes and call recordings, I can see Allianz has made reasonable attempts to 
get the remaining information set out above, both in writing and over the phone. I think 
questions, such as the date the repairs were completed are within the scope of 
reasonableness for this claim and shouldnt be too onerous for Mr A to evidence. And Im not 
persuaded that hes shown either Allianz or our service why he cant provide this information.
Allianz has confirmed that the key sticking points here are when the repairs were completed 
 as the property couldnt be occupied in any event whilst they took place  some further 
clarity around the start and end dates of each tenant, and evidence to show Mr A didnt 
receive any payments whilst the property was unoccupied  to ensure that Mr A doesnt 
benefit twice. I find this approach reasonable in the circumstances because this information 
will impact any potential payment Allianz chooses to make.
It therefore follows that I dont find Allianzs actions to be unreasonable, nor do I require it to 
do anything further as a result of my decision. I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman