DRN-2008785
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that information TSB Bank Plc gave them in June 2019 about fees 
for an account was wrong.
I wrote a provisional decision earlier this week for this case, asking both sides to come back 
to me with any comments or further details by 12 August. Mr and Mrs D and TSB have 
replied saying they accept the outcome I provisionally decided on last time. So Ive decided 
to make my final decision now, rather than waiting until 12 August as previously planned. 
Im not going to repeat everything that was in my provisional decision, just the bits that are 
needed to understand the complaint and my reasoning about it. 
What happened
TSB sent a letter in June 2019 that said the monthly fee for Mr and Mrs Ds account would 
increase to £15. Mr and Mrs D hadnt previously had to pay this fee, so Mrs D went to her 
branch to ask what this meant for her. She was told shed have to start paying £15 per 
month for the account. Mr and Mrs D decided the account wasnt worth paying that much for, 
so they closed it. 
But TSB confirm that Mr and Mrs Ds account would have continued to be free under the 
terms previously agreed.
The matter has come to us because TSB wont reopen the account. Theyve suggested 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused instead, starting at £100, but rising during 
our investigation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it highly likely that Mrs D asked whether her existing agreement, giving her the 
account for free, would be affected by the letter Ive seen was sent to her, which said the 
cost of the account was going up. Mrs D went on to close the account, which I accept was 
because TSB told her  incorrectly  that shed have to pay £15 per month for it.
The question for me is how we can put this right fairly for Mr and Mrs D, and for TSB.
Putting things right
TSBs incorrect information led to Mr and Mrs D closing the account. Had the information 
been accurate, I think it likely the account wouldnt have been closed. So the simplest 
solution would be to reopen the account.
TSB have said this cant be done. The next best option would be to replace the account that 
was closed with an identical one. But TSB dont offer the account to new customers any 
more, which they say means they cant give Mr and Mrs D a new one.
So Ive decided TSB should pay what I think Mr and Mrs D will need to replace the benefits 
that were lost. I can see the Co-operative Bank offer an Everyday Extra Current Account for 
£15 per month. This offers travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance 
much like Mr and Mrs Ds old account with TSB did. 
Taking this as a typical cost per month for this sort of account  its notably what TSB said 
theyd charge for the account when they wrote to Mr and Mrs D  Ive then decided how long 
that sort of cost will need to be paid for.
Mr and Mrs Ds benefits from their TSB account would have reduced as they get older. Ive 
decided to factor this in by saying TSB should pay the equivalent of £15 per month for four 
years - £720. After four years, Mr D will have reached an age where his benefits from the 
travel insurance part of the account would have been reduced. I think theres a good chance 
that Mr and Mrs D would have looked at changing their account with TSB at that point, had 
there been no error in 2019.
To keep things neat and simple, Ive decided this should be paid as a single payment to Mr 
and Mrs D. Theyll have enough money to replace the benefits they lost with a very similar 
account, but itll be for them to decide how best to do that, given their circumstances. 
I take on board the point that the zero-fee offer Mr and Mrs D had with TSB could have been 
withdrawn with two months notice. If that happened, a single payment for four years of a 
similar account improves Mr and Mrs Ds position. Equally, these sorts of accounts may 
become more expensive in the future, meaning a single payment based on the current cost 
falls short of covering the four years I want it to.
The impact on Mr and Mrs D of these uncertainties, together with what changes recent 
global events may bring, broadly balance out in my view. I cant see anything obvious to say 
the future will work itself out one way over the other. So Im satisfied that the simplicity of a 
single payment from TSB is a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
In addition, TSB initially offered £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs D for the trouble and 
upset caused. I think thats the right amount. It recognises that Mr and Mrs D havent 
suffered life changing impacts due to the error made. But it still acknowledges the feeling of 
disappointment about TSB giving them incorrect information, which led to a change being 
made that they wouldnt have otherwise made.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about TSB Bank Plc. To put this right, TSB should make 
a single payment to Mr and Mrs D of £820. 
.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman