DRN-3540299
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about action Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has taken in 
respect of their mortgage following repossession of their property. They complain that the 
property was sold for less than it was worth, leaving them with a substantial shortfall.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had a mortgage with Halifax on a rural property. They struggled to keep up 
with the payments and a suspended possession order was issued. This was followed by a 
warrant for eviction in 2016. 
Following the issue of the warrant, Halifax realised that there were a number of problems 
which might affect the sale of the property. As well as its rural nature  meaning that, for 
example, there were issues with water and drainage  there were problems with rights of 
access to the property over land also owned by Mr and Mrs R, but on a separate title and not 
subject to the banks mortgage. And Mr and Mrs R had also extended the property so that 
the footprint of the building also extended into the neighbouring land.
As a result, Halifax agreed not to take possession of the property to allow Mr and Mrs R to 
rectify the issues and sell the property themselves. It was agreed that if Mr and Mrs R had 
not sold the property by July 2019, Halifax would take possession and sell it itself.
Mr and Mrs R put the property on the market for £495,000 but were unable to find a buyer. 
Eventually, in February 2020 Halifax took possession and put the property up for auction.
It was put into two auctions, in March and April 2020, but failed to sell. Halifax later accepted 
an offer of £337,000 in May 2020 and the property sold. The sale price led to a substantial 
shortfall of around £280,000.
Represented by their solicitors, Mr and Mrs R complained. They said that Halifax had failed 
to achieve the best price for the property. They said that Halifax should have marketed the 
property conventionally before putting it into auction. They said that the auction Halifax used 
was inappropriate, being a long distance from the property and aimed at an urban rather 
than rural market. They said that by marketing the property in spring 2020, during the time of 
coronavirus pandemic restrictions on the property market, Halifax failed to achieve the best 
price, since at that time no one could visit the property and all sales and viewings were done 
remotely, and at a time where there was considerable uncertainty in the housing market.
Mr and Mrs R said that they had been advised by a local estate agent that a price of 
£450,000 was realistic  and had Halifax not sold during the restrictions, and not placed the 
property straight into auction, it ought to have achieved that price. And in any case, 
Mr and Mrs R said any shortfall was limited by agreement to £133,000, so Halifax should not 
try to collect more than that.
Halifax said that Mr and Mrs R had marketed the property at £495,000 for over a year 
without reducing the asking price, and it had not sold at that figure. When it took possession, 
it had the property valued by a surveyor and a local estate agent, as well as an auction 
house. All these valuations were for in the region of £350,000. It put it in for auction with a 
guide price of £340,000 in March 2020, and a guide price of £310,000 in April 2020. It failed 
to sell on both occasions. Halifax received and accepted an offer of £337,000, and the sale 
completed in May 2020.
Halifax said that it had complied with the requirement to get independent valuations, and to 
sell the property within a reasonable time at the best achievable price. It was unfortunate 
there was a shortfall, but Mr and Mrs R were liable to pay it and needed to come to some 
arrangement with its debt collectors.
Halifax also said that at the time of the sale, the mortgage balance was around £610,000 
and after expenses the sale raised £329,000  leaving a shortfall of around £280,000. 
However, it said it had agreed that Mr and Mrs Rs liability would be capped at £470,000, 
and so it had instructed its debt collectors to only recover £140,000.
Our investigator said that Halifax had acted fairly in selling the property when it did, and that 
it had achieved a sale price in line with the valuations.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs R say the property was sold for too little. In support of that, theyve provided a 
letter from the estate agent who was marketing the property on their behalf. The agent said 
that they had marketed the property at £495,000 for two months (having taken over from 
another agent who had failed to sell at that price). They had two viewings during that time. 
The agent says that £495,000 was at the optimistic end of the range, but that comparable 
properties had sold in the area for over £400,000 and that he considers £337,000 too low. 
And he says that selling the property via auction during lockdown when viewings were not 
allowed reduced the chances of getting a good price.
Mr and Mrs R also say that Halifax evicted them in 2016  had they lived in the property 
thereafter, they would have been able to maintain it and it would have been in better 
condition at the time of sale. 
And Mr and Mrs R say that because the banks reports differed  with one recommending 
traditional marketing and the others recommending auction  it should have tried to sell the 
property via an estate agent first. Had it done so, it would have achieved a higher price. And 
in any case, the property should not have been marketed at all during the lockdown of March 
to May 2020. While at that time it wasnt known how long the pandemic would have affected 
the property market, a pause of a few months to take stock would have been reasonable 
given the time the property had already been on the market.
As no agreement could be reached, the case comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not dealing in this complaint with the history of the mortgage, or Halifaxs decision to take 
legal action when Mr and Mrs R werent able to maintain the payments. Mr and Mrs R have 
previously complained to Halifax about those issues, receiving responses in 2016 and 2017, 
and so those matters are out of time. In this decision, Ill confine myself to the current 
complaint  about whether Halifax achieved a fair price and whether its fair to expect 
Mr and Mrs R to pay the shortfall that resulted.When the suspended possession order was granted, followed by the warrant of eviction in 
2016, Halifax contemplated repossessing and selling the property. However, there were 
problems that meant it couldnt do so. Halifax instructed solicitors and surveyors to clarify 
and try to resolve these issues and added the costs associated to the mortgage balance. 
Again, those matters are not part of this complaint as they were covered by the earlier 
complaints which are now out of time.
However, those events show that there have been longstanding difficulties with this property, 
making a sale more complex than it would otherwise be.
Ive seen the report of an independent surveyor Halifax instructed in 2019, and his report is 
relatively detailed. He said, among other things:
There is no mains sewage or gas, and the property relied on a septic tank which was 
on neighbouring land not within the property title boundary;
There were other issues with the property title, including that an extension to the 
property fell outside the title boundaries  as did outbuildings associated with the 
property;
The condition of the property was v poor, including severe damp on both floors and 
with exposed live electricity cables;
There was no record of planning permission or building control approval for the 
extension. 
The propertys condition made it difficult to sell. Leaving aside the general condition, the key 
sticking point was the confusion between this propertys title  over which Halifax had its 
mortgage  and the title of neighbouring land.
The propertys septic tank and outbuildings, and part of the property itself (the extension) 
were on the neighbouring land not on the land subject to Halifaxs mortgage. That would 
make it virtually impossible for Halifax to sell the property. Halifax was aware of all this, and 
it explains why it didnt enforce the warrant in 2016  on the basis that there was little point 
repossessing the property until these matters were resolved.
As a result, a solution was needed. The neighbouring land was also owned by 
Mr and Mrs R, albeit on a separate title and not subject to Halifaxs mortgage. And so, in 
2018, Halifax and Mr and Mrs R reached an agreement:
Mr and Mrs R would include the relevant parts of the adjoining land within this 
property subject to Halifaxs mortgage; 
Mr and Mrs R would put the property on the market and keep Halifax updated with 
the progress of the marketing and sale;
Halifax would accept £470,000 in full and final settlement of the mortgage;
But should the property sell for less than £470,000, Mr and Mrs R would be liable for 
the full shortfall up to that amount  and should it sell for more, the additional amount 
would be split 50/50 between Halifax and Mr and Mrs R;
If the property failed to sell within 12 months, Halifax would review its position and 
would be entitled to take possession.I think that was a fair agreement. It recognised that Mr and Mrs R could no longer sustain the 
mortgage and that  in the ordinary course of things  Halifax would be entitled to 
possession. 
But it also recognised that, in this particular case, Halifax couldnt practically take possession 
of the property and sell it without resolving the title issues. And so in return for Mr and Mrs R 
including more of their land within the property to be sold and making it subject to Halifaxs 
mortgage, Halifax would agree to limit the amount it would collect under the mortgage. In 
effect, Mr and Mrs R gave up part of their other land in return for a reduction in their 
mortgage debt.
Mr and Mrs R then marketed the property at £495,000 for a year, but without success. Under 
the terms of the agreement, Halifax then became entitled to take possession and did so in 
February 2020.
When a lender takes possession of a property, the mortgage continues to be outstanding 
and monthly interest continues to accrue  increasing the balance  until the property is sold. 
Its therefore important that the lender sells the property as quickly as possible. However, its 
also important that the lender achieves the best price it can. Theres therefore a balance to 
be struck  a lender should act promptly, it shouldnt hold out indefinitely for a high price, but 
it also shouldnt sell the property too quickly and cheaply. 
To guide the sale and marketing of a property in possession, a lender should get at least two 
independent valuations  one from a qualified surveyor, and one from a selling agent familiar 
with the market. 
Halifax had already instructed a surveyor, in 2019. He said that given the condition of the 
property, the lack of consents and the problems with the title the prospects of selling it were 
low. While other broadly similar properties in the area had sold for between £400,000 and 
£650,000, they were in much better condition and didnt have the problems identified. The 
surveyor advised that in all the circumstances it was better sold at auction than by standard 
marketing, and gave a market value of £340,000.
An auction appraisal also described the property as run down and recommended a sale 
with a guide price of £350,000 and a reserve of £365,000, with a view to achieving between 
£365,000 and £375,000. 
And a second auction appraisal described the property as tired and suffering with damp 
will require some immediate repairs / improvements. It said it was of limited appeal and 
while in good condition could be worth £450,000 to £475,000, at the moment it was only 
worth £350,000. It too recommended auction rather than standard marketing due to its 
limited appeal.
An estate agents appraisal said the propertys condition was poor, with evidence of rising 
damp, requires repair and refurbishment, decoration, fittings / floor coverings, external 
repairs / maintenance. It said the septic tank and heating oil storage were not to standard. 
It said the property could be marketed at £350,000 with a view to a sale price of £325,000. 
And the surveyor who had reported in 2019 provided an updated report in February 2020 
confirming that he remained of the view that the property was still worth £340,000.
All these valuations were given before the imposition of coronavirus lockdown restrictions on 
23 March 2020, and all valued the property as being worth between £325,000 and £375,000 
 with limited appeal given its condition and other problems.The only evidence to set against that is that Mr and Mrs R marketed the property, advised by 
two successive estate agents, at £495,000. And the letter from the second estate agent 
saying that the sale price was too low because similar properties had sold for more than 
£400,000.
However, Im not persuaded by this evidence. Its clear that the property wasnt worth 
£495,000 since it didnt sell at that price despite being marketed for over a year. And while 
the estate agent refers to the sale of similar properties in the local area, all the other reports 
explain that those sales are of limited comparative value given the poor condition and other 
problems with this property.
On balance, and having considered the various reports carefully, I prefer the consensus of 
the banks surveyor, estate agent and auction agents that the property was worth around 
£350,000 (give or take £25,000 in either direction) rather than Mr and Mrs Rs estate agent 
estimate of over £400,000.
I also think it was reasonable for the bank to accept the advice of the surveyor that sale by 
auction was more appropriate. While the banks estate agent said marketing for private sale 
could be tried, it had been tried and had failed for over a year (albeit at an optimistic price  
and the banks agent was also clear that there was a limited market for the property in its 
current state. 
While  as a general rule, and all other things being equal  property sold at auction might 
fetch a lower price than property sold by private sale, all other things werent equal in this 
case. This was a property in a rural location, in poor condition and with significant problems 
requiring immediate attention  meaning there was a limited market for it. It was reasonable, 
in my view, for Halifax to decide that it was more likely to find a buyer in a reasonable time 
via auction than via estate agent marketing.
As it was, Halifax did manage to find a buyer, in May 2020. The offer, which it accepted, was 
for £337,000  squarely within the range of the reports it had received and almost identical to 
the opinion of the surveyor. 
Its unfortunate that the property was repossessed shortly before, and sold during, the 
coronavirus restrictions on the property market that were in place between March and May 
2020.
However, Im not persuaded that this meant the only fair course was for Halifax to delay the 
marketing and sale of the property. I dont think in fact that the pandemic had an effect on 
the sale price  since the price achieved was in line with the valuations Halifax had obtained, 
all of which were completed before the pandemic restrictions. To my mind, that doesnt show 
that the pandemic had an impact on the sale price. 
I must also bear in mind that it wasnt known, at that time, how long the restrictions would 
last or when the property market would re-open in full. We now know that happened in May 
2020  but it did so with virtually no notice, and prior to that it was not at all clear how long 
they would be in place. 
Pausing the sale of the property at this time could potentially have involved an indefinite 
delay  which was to be avoided. And the restrictions didnt shut down the property market 
altogether. They prevented valuers visiting occupied property  but the property had already 
been valued before the restrictions. They also prevented physical viewings. But they did not 
prevent sales  as evidenced by the two auctions that went ahead (at which the property 
didnt sell). Generally, the longer a lender takes to sell a property, the worse the position this leaves the 
buyer in  since the mortgage balance increases in the meantime. That wasnt the case 
here, because of the agreement limiting Mr and Mrs Rs liability to £470,000. But that meant 
that, instead, the longer the sale took the greater the amount above £470,000 Halifax would 
have to write off. 
In that context, Im not persuaded that it was unfair for Halifax to go ahead despite the 
covid-19 restrictions  sales could continue, any delay could be long-term or indefinite, and 
in the meantime Halifaxs potential losses would increase. 
And even if Im wrong about that and going ahead was the wrong thing to do, I dont think it 
made any difference. Thats because the property actually did sell for an amount consistent 
with the pre-pandemic valuations. And so theres no evidence that selling during the 
restrictions depressed the price or caused Mr and Mrs R further loss.
Mr and Mrs R also say that the property price was lower because theyd been evicted in 
2016 but the property didnt sell until 2020  meaning it wasnt maintained in the meantime, 
its condition worsened, and the price fell.
Im not persuaded by this. Mr and Mrs R might have moved out in 2016, but they werent 
evicted then. Halifax didnt take possession until 2020. Up until then, the property was still in 
Mr and Mrs Rs possession  they were, for example, marketing it themselves for over a 
year between 2018 and 2020. 
Until 2020, when Halifax took the property into possession, it was up to Mr and Mrs R to 
maintain it and keep it in good repair. It seems to me that the reason that didnt happen is 
more likely to be related to the financial problems which meant Mr and Mrs R couldnt pay 
their mortgage  not because Halifax failed in an obligation to upkeep the property. It didnt 
have such an obligation. Any failure to maintain the property between 2016 and 2020 falls to 
Mr and Mrs R, not Halifax.
Taking everything into account, then, Im satisfied that Halifax has acted fairly and 
reasonably. It reached an agreement with Mr and Mrs R that would allow the property to be 
sold. It capped their liability and agreed to absorb further losses itself. It gave them time to 
sell the property themselves. And when they werent able to do so, it sold the property itself 
and achieved a sale in a reasonable time at a price in line with the independent valuations.
It follows that Mr and Mrs R are liable for the shortfall that resulted. Under the agreement, 
Halifax has capped their liability at £470,000 overall  which means that, after deduction of 
the sale price and associated costs, there is a shortfall of around £140,000. It's unfortunate 
that Halifaxs debt collectors originally quoted the full shortfall on the mortgage balance of 
£280,000 rather than the capped amount of £140,000 (I have rounded all figures for ease). 
But Halifax has now confirmed that it is only expecting Mr and Mrs R to pay the capped 
shortfall of around £140,000. I think thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Via 
its debt collectors, Halifax will need to treat Mr and Mrs R fairly in how it recovers this debt 
and give fair consideration to any proposals they might make.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman