DRN-3642852
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that they were mis-sold a motor warranty by Future 45 Limited.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L bought a motor warranty online.
When they needed to make a claim, the underwriter of the policy declined it because it 
thought the part had failed due to wear and tear.
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with this because the thought theyd selected an additional level 
of cover to include wear and tear. They complained to Future 45, the busines responsible for 
selling them the policy. They said during the sale, a box popped up which led them to 
believe they had this optional level of cover.
Future 45 didnt agree. It said the box that popped up needed to be selected, and Mr and 
Mrs L didnt select this cover. It also said it was clear on the information sent after the sale 
that no optional extra cover was selected.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree and brought their complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt 
recommend it be upheld. They didnt think the sales process on the whole was unclear, and 
thought the evidence showed Mr and Mrs L didnt select the optional wear and tear cover.
 But Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
During the online sales journey a box pops up after selecting the level of cover. This 
pop-up box says Thank you for choosing our (level of cover) Your premium will 
update to include any selected optional cover The box goes on to show one option 
(The optional wear and tear cover) and the price it will cost. It has a + to the left of 
the option and a continue button below it. Theres also an x in the top right-hand 
corner to exit the box.
Mr and Mrs L say by selecting continue, they thought they were choosing to add the 
cover. Theyve said to not add the cover theyd have clicked the x in the top right of 
the pop-up box.
But Mr and Mrs L didnt select this extra cover. The plus sign indicates it needed to 
be clicked on to be added  which wasnt done. I dont find pressing continue to be 
selecting an additional extra, it merely is continuing the application.
Following the purchase of the policy a further screen comes up listing, amongst other 
things, the cost of any optional additional cover  and this is listed as £0 on Mr and 
Mrs Ls policy. So, if Mr and Mrs L thought theyd selected the optional cover, this 
would have showed they hadnt and given them opportunity to correct.
On the whole Im satisfied the sales process is clear and that Mr and Mrs L didnt 
select the additional cover for wear and tear. So, it follows that I dont find this policy 
was mis-sold and Future 45 need take no further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman