DRN-3187261
The complaint
Mrs B complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont accept her home insurance claim 
for damage caused by a leaking roof.
What happened
Mrs B registered a claim with UKI in September 2018 for damage caused to the upstairs of 
her property by a leaking roof. UKI asked Mrs B to obtain a roofers report which she did and 
which confirmed the damage was being caused by water accessing the property as a result 
of the poor condition of her neighbours chimney. Because the damage wasnt caused by an 
insured event that was covered by the policy, UKI declined the claim. As Mrs B didnt have 
additional accidental damage cover on her policy it was unable to consider the internal 
damage. UKI referred Mrs B to the legal protection cover on her policy. 
Mrs B contacted UKI again in April 2019 because she was having trouble getting her 
neighbour to accept liability for the damage. UKI said that unfortunately this wasnt 
something it was able to assist with as it was a civil matter between Mrs B and her 
neighbour. 
In January 2020 Mrs B registered a claim with UKI for internal damage to her property. She 
said that shed had the roof repaired but it was still leaking. UKI declined the claim again 
because it said the damage was the result of poor workmanship, or wear and tear, was 
excluded from cover under the policy and/or because the source of the damage was the 
same as in 2018; namely Mrs Bs neighbours roof. Mrs B had recently added additional 
accidental damage cover to her policy but as the damage predated it coming into force, UKI 
said it was unable to consider the claim under that section. 
Mrs B raised a complaint with UKI in September 2020. She said she was looking to UKI to 
rectify the issues caused by the water damage to her home. UKI issued its final response to 
Mrs Bs complaint in mid-September 2020. It said her policy provided cover for damage 
caused by one-off events but it had been unable to identify that the damage had been so 
caused. It said the damage was caused by an ongoing problem with her neighbours 
property but her policy didnt cover her for ongoing damage or wear and tear. It said that 
whilst shed recently added accidental damage cover to her policy, the damage shed 
reported pre-dated the cover so it was unable to assist. UKI said it was unable to uphold 
Mrs Bs complaint because it remained of the view that itd made the correct decision about 
its liability for her claim. 
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to UKI, Mrs B complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She 
didnt think UKI had unfairly declined Mrs Bs claim because it wasnt covered by the policy 
terms.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators findings. She said most of the damage to her 
bedroom occurred in April 2019 which was after shed added accidental damage cover to 
her policy. And she said that not all the damage she was claiming for was ongoing. Mrs B 
also said that shed always had accidental damage cover with her policy so she had no idea 
when itd been removed. She also said that shed replaced a flat roof on her property 
because UKIs loss adjuster had suggested that this might be the source of the water ingress 
which she now thinks wasnt something that was necessary. 
Our investigator looked at what Mrs B had said but said that the information provided from 
both her contractor reports indicated that the damage was ongoing from at least 2018 which 
was before she had accidental damage cover. She also said that Mrs B would have to raise 
the issue of her accidental damage cover being removed from her policy with her broker and 
that she couldnt look at that within the confines of this complaint. 
Mrs B said she would raise a complaint with her broker about her cover. She also provided 
some additional comments from her one of her contractors which said that there were two 
separate areas of damage in the bedroom and the area by the door occurred in April 2019 
and was unrelated to the damage from the neighbours chimney. Our investigator forwarded 
the contractors comments to UKI to review. It responded to say that if there had been two 
separate incidents of damage it still didnt alter its view about the claim because neither was 
caused by an insured event. Our investigator said to Mrs B that unfortunately her 
contractors comments didnt indicate the cause of the separate damage and it was unclear 
what part of the policy the damage would fall under. 
Mrs B asked for her complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage 
caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy  fire, theft, storm etc.  is covered. It 
is generally the responsibility of the policyholder to show that the damage they are claiming 
for has been caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy. Providing they are able 
to do so, then the insurer must pay the claim unless it is able to rely on one of the policy 
exclusions to defeat it. If it cant be shown that the damage has been caused by one of the 
insured events listed in the policy then the insurer doesnt have to meet the claim. 
I dont doubt that Mrs Bs home has suffered damage. Ive seen the photographs and read 
the reports and its clear that it has. But for me to make UKI pay to repair that damage it has 
to be shown that the damage is the result of one of the insured events listed under the policy 
and Im afraid that there is no evidence Ive seen that would indicate that it was. All the 
evidence indicates that water was causing internal damage to Mrs Bs property as a result of 
the poor condition of her neighbours chimney. Thats not damage thats covered by any of 
the insured events listed in Mrs Bs policy. 
And whilst Mrs B may not have had additional accidental damage cover when the damage 
was discovered, its not given that, even if she had, the damage shed reported wouldve 
been covered under that part of her policy. She wouldve needed to have shown that the 
damage met the policy criteria for accidental damage  namely that it was sudden, 
unintentional and unexpected  in order for it to be covered. As UKI said in 2018, it was 
simply unable to consider a claim under the additional accidental damage peril because 
Mrs B didnt have it. Ive seen no suggestion that if she had had such cover then the claim 
could, and would, automatically have been accepted by UKI.
But I think the evidence indicates that the damage pre-dated Mrs Bs accidental damage 
cover in any event. And, whilst I note that she and her contractor have latterly referred to a 
separate area of damage, Ive seen no evidence to suggest this area was caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy terms. But, if Mrs B thinks it was so caused, she 
should raise that with UKI in the first instance.  
Whilst I note that Mrs B has said she once had additional accidental damage cover under 
her policy and has no idea how it came to be removed, that is a matter she must first raise 
with her broker. UKI isnt responsible for the sale of her policy or for arranging her cover so I 
cant look at that complaint for her here. 
Whilst I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, I cant fairly or 
reasonably uphold her complaint against UKI. I dont think UKI unfairly declined Mrs Bs 
claim for the damage to her home because, unfortunately for Mrs B, it wasnt covered by her 
policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman