DRN-3521170
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Santander UK Plc incorrectly told him that a credit account transaction 
would incur interest, leading him to make a payment towards the credit account at a time 
when he didnt need to.
What happened
Mr R contacted Santander via their live chat facility after making a transaction on his credit 
card account which had a value of about £195 but which was completed in an overseas 
currency. During the live chat, Mr R was incorrectly advised by Santanders agent that the 
transaction would incur interest. Mr R then made a payment to his Santander credit account 
of £200 to clear the transaction balance as he wanted to avoid the accrual of interest on his 
account. 
Mr R later learned that the transaction wouldnt have incurred interest, meaning that he didnt 
need to have made the payment at the time that he did in order to avoid the accrual of 
interest. Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Rs complaint. They acknowledged that Mr R had been given 
incorrect information by their agent in the first instance and they apologised to Mr R for this. 
But Santander didnt feel that Mr R being compelled to make the £200 payment to the 
account that he had done merited anything beyond an apology, and they didnt offer any 
form of compensation to Mr R as Mr R would have liked.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the apology that 
Santander had issued to Mr R already represented a fair and reasonably resolution to what 
had happened, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander have acknowledged that the initial online chat agent that Mr R spoke with 
incorrectly told Mr R that his recent transaction would incur interest. Mr R has explained that 
because he wanted to avoid the accrual of interest on his account, he immediately made a 
payment to the credit account to cover the recently transacted outstanding balance.
Mr R is upset that he was compelled to make such a payment when in fact the transaction 
wouldnt have incurred any interest meaning that he could have made a payment to clear the 
transacted balance at a later, more convenient time.
I can appreciate Mr Rs position. But I feel that Santanders apology to Mr R already 
represents a fair and reasonable resolution here. And I dont feel that the fact that Mr R was 
compelled to make the £200 payment to the credit account that he did should reasonably 
result in Santander making any form of compensation payment to him.
There are several reasons for my position here. These include that Mr R had sufficient funds 
available to him to make the payment, meaning that he wasnt left in a financially 
disadvantageous position by doing so, as well as the fact that all credit transactions are 
required to be repaid at some point. 
Mr R may have made the payment to clear the transacted amount earlier then he otherwise 
might have done, and I accept that this may have caused Mr R some slight inconvenience. 
But as explained, I feel that the apology that Santander have already made to Mr R provides 
a fair resolution for the level of inconvenience that Mr R may have incurred here. And I dont 
feel that Mr R making the payment to the credit account earlier than he otherwise might have 
done should fairly or reasonably merit anything beyond the apology that Santander have 
already issued.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr R was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. I trust that Mr R will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman