DRN-4192079
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage and linked mortgage current account (MCA) that Mr S 
holds with Barclays Bank UK PLC. The mortgage was due for repayment in February 2027, 
but changes to the monthly direct debit Mr S made, based on information and guidance from 
Barclays, resulted in the mortgage account balance being fully repaid in February 2022. This 
meant that, under the terms and conditions of the mortgage contract, the overdraft facility on 
the MCA became repayable immediately instead of continuing to be available for Mr S to use 
for another five years. 
What happened
Mr S blames wrong information from Barclays for his mortgage account being repaid early. 
He says it resulted in adverse information being added to his credit file, which in turn 
prevented him from accessing credit from other sources. He also complains that he was 
racially insulted by someone he spoke to about the issues. 
Barclays admitted having given Mr S misleading information and advice in October 2021 that 
resulted in the mortgage being repaid early, the MCA being called in, and adverse 
information being recorded on his credit file. It apologised and offered him £800 
compensation. Mr S wasnt happy; he told the bank he was seeking £500,000. Meanwhile, 
the adverse marker, placed in October 2021, was removed from Mr S credit file in mid-2022.
When the case came to us, our investigator recommended Barclays allow Mr S to continue 
using the overdraft facility on the MCA by reinstating the mortgage account (or some other 
means it might suggest). She also thought that the £800 Barclays had offered was fair 
compensation for the impact on Mr S of the mistakes Barclays had made.
Barclays accepted the investigators recommendation for settling the complaint. Mr S did not; 
he says hes suffered further consequential loss as a result of the adverse markers on his 
credit file hindering his attempts to get credit elsewhere. 
What Ive decided  and why
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr S and Barclays. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr S being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. Its for me to decide what the material issues are 
that will affect the eventual outcome. Its also my judgement on what evidence I need to see 
and consider, in order to reach a fair decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
This isnt a complaint where I have to decide fault; Barclays admits it made mistakes and 
has apologised and offered compensation. All that leaves for me to decide is whether 
Barclays response provides a fair settlement or not. 
Barclays mistake was not to alert Mr S that setting his direct debit at the level he was 
proposing would clear the outstanding balance on the mortgage account five years early. If it 
had advised and guided him appropriately, Im satisfied that wouldnt have happened, and 
Mr S would not then have faced a demand to repay the overdraft on the MCA. 
So its entirely fair and reasonable that Barclays should undo what happened by reinstating 
the main mortgage account, restoring the balance to where it was in October 2021, and Im 
glad it has agreed to do this. The precise mechanics for how that should happen are for 
Barclays to work out and agree with Mr S after he has accepted my final decision, always 
assuming that he does so. At this stage, it is the broad principle of the settlement that I am 
ordering.
As to the level of compensation Mr S should receive, there are two broad areas to consider; 
redress for financial loss, and then for his time, trouble and upset. The former is generally 
easier to assess, as it is a case of viewing the evidence of loss, assessing the extent to 
which that loss flows from the business action, and making the appropriate award. Here, 
having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, Im not persuaded 
Mr S has demonstrated that he has suffered, directly as a consequence of what Barclays 
did, a financial loss warranting a separate award.
As to the non-financial aspect, theres no doubt in my mind that Mr S has experienced a 
great deal of distress and inconvenience as a result of Barclays calling in his MCA overdraft 
in the wake of the mortgage account being mistakenly paid down. Aside from anything else, 
he spent a lot of time exploring ways of re-financing the debt, which wasnt made any easier 
by the presence of the adverse credit marker, at least until June 2022. 
The proposal from our investigator to restore access to the MCA, which I am intending to 
order Barclays to carry out, at least takes away that imperative, but it will no doubt have 
caused Mr S a lot of unnecessary worry and activity. Then theres the issue of the remark 
made by a member of Barclays staff which Mr S found racially insulting.
This is always a difficult area to deal with, as these are such subjective matters. One 
persons seemingly innocent remark is anothers insult, and everyone perceives things 
differently. Then theres the question of intent. I wont reveal the nature of the comment Mr S 
is objecting to here, out of respect for his feelings, but on balance I think it unlikely that any 
malice was intended by the remark.
Putting everything together and taking into account all of the circumstances, Barclays offer 
of £800 is higher than I would have awarded if no offer had been made. It follows therefore that I dont find that Barclays needs to do more to settle this complaint than it has already 
agreed to do.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see how strongly Mr S feels.  
Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. Its also natural to 
emphasise individual statements or comments that appear to support a particular viewpoint, 
whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the opposite viewpoint. 
But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or anomalies in what both 
sides have said and done from time to time. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively, sometimes taking a step back from the minutiae, focussing on the broader 
picture. Thats what Ive done. 
I will however make a further observation. Theres more (and sometimes less) to complaint 
resolution than simply deciding whos right or whos wrong. Its not just about winning the 
argument; sometimes its about compromising to reach a fair conclusion that both parties 
can live with. Im satisfied the decision Ive reached here achieves that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to reinstate Mr S mortgage account 
and reconstruct it from October 2021 up to the eventual date of settlement, on the basis that 
it and the MCA should run to February 2027 as planned. As already stated, the exact 
mechanics of that reinstatement are for the parties to agree between them, if Mr S accepts 
my final decision. I also order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr S £800 compensation. I 
make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman