DRN-3772872
The complaint
P, a limited company complains about the poor service it received from a relationship 
manager (RM) at HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
P says that it suffered financial loss, upset and inconvenience.
P is represented in its complaint by a director, Miss S.
What happened
In summary, Miss S is very unhappy with the service she received from Ps RM at HSBC. 
She says he failed to reply to requests for a business loan and repayment holidays. And that 
this meant payments debited Ps account leaving it over limit which impacted its credit file.
Before this service became involved, HSBC offered P £500 to apologise for any 
inconvenience caused by its failings in service. 
Miss S didnt accept HSBCs offer. She told this service that the offer was to compensate P 
for the time it took to honour a loan repayment holiday. Miss S says shes unhappy with the 
abuse she received from the RM. Miss S says that HSBC stopped a cheque which led to 
embarrassment. It meant she was unable to pay a supplier causing reputational damage. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Ps complaint be upheld. In summary he explained 
that a limited company cant suffer distress or upset. The investigator thought that HSBCs 
offer of £500 adequately reflected the inconvenience suffered due to the poor service P 
received from the RM.
The investigator thought that P had the benefit of any monies loaned by HSBC so there 
wasnt any reason to ask HSBC to write off debts.
Miss S disagrees with the investigation outcome. She doesnt think that weve dealt with all 
the issues she raised with HSBC. Miss S is unhappy with HSBCs delay when releasing the 
security from a property she owns personally. Miss S says that if her personal and Ps 
business account arent linked, then the issue is that the RM had control of both accounts, 
leaving her with no way of moving forward.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
Im sorry to hear about the distress Miss S has felt but as the investigator explained, P is a 
limited company and so its own legal entity. This means I cant consider the upset Miss S 
has felt personally. I can only consider whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably towards 
P. 
Miss S has also raised concerns that HSBC delayed the release of security over a property 
she owned personally. Miss S had hoped to re-mortgage her personal property to help P. As 
Ive only considered Ps complaint about the service it received, I cant comment on any 
problems that relate to Miss Ss personal accounts with HSBC. Ive asked the investigator to 
contact Miss S about taking this aspect of her complaint further if she wants. 
Like the investigator, I think that the service P received from HSBC was less than stellar. 
There is evidence of the RM failing to follow up on action points despite him saying he 
would. Miss S on behalf of P had to contact HSBC on multiple occasions and HSBC failed to 
act after it said it would. 
As I agree that HSBC made mistakes, Ive considered whether its offer to pay £500 
adequately reflects the inconvenience to P. The compensation of £500 is in the middle of the 
range of award this service might make where the mistake has caused significant 
inconvenience and the impact has lasted over weeks or months. Taking account of Ps 
repeated attempts to sort out the loan payment holiday, the lack of action by the RM and the 
general handling of Ps account, I consider £500 is an appropriate amount of compensation.
Although Miss S says that P missed out on financial products because of the RMs lack of 
response, I cant be sure that P wouldve been accepted for a particular financial product. 
So, I dont have enough evidence to suggest that P lost out financially because of the 
mistakes made by the RM. Again, I want to make it clear that in reaching this decision, Ive 
not looked at the alleged delay by HSBC when releasing the security over Miss Ss property 
- that is a separate issue  albeit involving the same RM.
For all the reasons Ive outlined above, I consider HSBCs offer of compensation was fair so 
I dont require HSBC to pay or do more to put things right for P.
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC has already made an offer which I think is fair. So, my final 
decision is that if it hasnt already done so, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay P £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman