DRN-3838801
The complaint
Mr B complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in August 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in 
the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr B is represented in this complaint by a law firm (Representative). 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
The details of Mr Bs safeguarded benefits in the BSPS were as follows:
He had accrued 20 years and 1 month qualifying service between April 1996 and 
May 2016;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, qualifying service and 
benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in May 2016 his annual 
scheme pension was £17,506. This would be revalued by a prescribed amount over 
the term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, once in payment, would 
also escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
Payment of benefits before age 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction 
on a sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60; and
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £401,667.22. 
Mr B was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. He was introduced to IFM by another business (Firm A). 
He met one of IFMs advisers in August 2017. A fact find document and attitude to risk 
questionnaire were completed which recorded the following information about Mr B:
He was aged 55 and his wife aged 52. He was in good health. They had two adult 
children who were financially independent;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£37,000. His wife was a housewife;
Their assets comprised the marital home valued at £90,000. It was recorded that 
they didnt have any other savings or investments (the Representative provided 
evidence to this Service that Mr B had about £14,000 in cash savings at time of the 
advice but this hadnt been recorded by IFM);
They didnt have any debts or liabilities; 
After paying for bills and essentials, they had surplus disposable income of about 
£100 available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the full state pension at age 67 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since June 2016. The total annual 
contribution into his DC plan was 12% of his gross annual salary. The value of his 
DC plan wasnt recorded but, by that point, total contributions of about £4,000 had 
been invested in it;
He was an inexperienced investor. On a scale of 1 to 5 where 1 (Cautious risk) was 
lowest risk and 5 (Adventurous risk) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined 
to be 2 or Low risk. This was defined as, I am a conservative investor who requires 
limited exposure to the equity market. I am willing to accept growth in line with 
inflation.
He wanted to fully retire within the next 12 months and take a tax-free cash (TFC) 
amount of £25,000 to cover the cost of some home improvements and to buy a car. 
And, following that, he wanted to receive annual retirement income of £17,000 until 
age 67 and then, once his state pension started, reduce the income produced by his 
safeguarded benefits down to £10,000. It was recorded that he anticipated fully 
retiring soon and was happy to accept a lower pension income to achieve his 
objective.
Following the fact find meeting, IFM issued its suitability report to Mr B in August 2017. Its 
adviser recommended that he transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to 
a PPP provided by Prudential for the following reasons:
You require the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your circumstances, needs 
and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) income that your 
existing defined benefits pension would provide.
You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the 'new' 
British Steel Pension Scheme.
The pension offered by the scheme is insufficient to allow you to retire early.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.
The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:Initial advice charge 
1.24% (or £5,000)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges
0.65% investment annual management charge deducted from the PPP fund value
0.35% product fee deducted from the PPP fund value
The basis of the recommendation was that following the pension transfer, Firm A, 
who introduced Mr B to IFM, would provide ongoing advice regarding the 
management and investment of the recommended PPP. In connection with this, 
IFMs adviser stated in the suitability report, It is important that your funds and 
financial planning arrangements are reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that they 
remain suitable. I understand this service will provided by [Firm A]. The cost of this 
provision can be paid directly by you or can be taken from your pension fund on an 
ongoing basis. This is something you and [Firm A] will need to discuss and agree 
on. The ongoing cost wasnt stated in the suitability report.
IFM calculated the estimated Mr Bs revalued annual scheme pension at age 65 as £21,915 
on the basis he took a full scheme pension only at that time. It calculated the critical yield to 
match that benefit as 9.7%. The calculation assumed 0% ongoing advice costs. The critical 
yield at a younger age  to align with the age at which Mr B intended with withdraw benefits 
 wasnt calculated.
Mr B accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
IFM recommended that the PPP value be invested in the following funds to align with Mr Bs 
Low risk profile:
Fund Allocation Estimated annual growth 
rate before charges
Prufund Growth 70% 6.20%
Prufund Cautious 30% 5.50%
Weighted estimated annual growth rate before charges was 5.99%
In October 2017, the BSPS communicated with members under the Time to Choose 
communication exercise. This explained that BSPS members had three options regarding 
their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr B to retain guaranteed lifetime income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. 
In April 2019, about 18 months after the pension transfer had been completed, Mr B reduced 
his working hours at Tata Steel following which his gross annual income reduced from about 
£37,000 to about £19,000. He supplemented his reduced employed income by accessing 
and withdrawing TFC of £800 every month from his PPP. So he didnt fully retire but instead 
remained employed and reduced his working hours.This complaint
During 2022, the Representative, on behalf of Mr B, complained to IFM about the suitability 
of its pension transfer advice. In summary, it stated that IFM shouldve advised to Mr B to 
wait until there was more information about the impending changes to the BSPS and, had it 
done so, he shouldve then been advised to transfer to the BSPS2 since the PPP was highly 
unlikely to match the benefits provided by the new scheme. The Representative believed 
that IFMs unsuitable advice had caused Mr B to suffer a financial loss and requested 
compensation to put him into the correct financial position on the basis he had instead 
transferred to the BSPS2. 
IFM didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated Mr B was concerned about the issues 
surrounding Tata Steel and the security of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. It 
considered that these factors and the continuing uncertainty were sufficient reason for Mr B 
to transfer away so that he could obtain control of his safeguarded benefits and benefit from 
the flexibility to withdraw variable amounts of money to suit his needs and leave a lump sum 
to his beneficiaries on his death. It was satisfied that it had adhered to and considered 
relevant FCA rules and guidance including providing Mr B with all the necessary information 
and risk warnings in good time to be able to make an informed decision. In its view, the 
pension transfer to the PPP was in his best interests and so was therefore suitable. 
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because, in her view, IFM failed to demonstrate that transferring to the PPP was clearly in 
Mr Bs best interests at the time. She thought suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to 
the BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator recommended that IFM carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on the basis that Mr B transferred for the 
BSPS2, took benefits at age 65 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In 
addition, she recommended that IFM pay Mr B £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
The Representative, on behalf of Mr B, agreed that this complaint should be upheld. But IFM 
disagreed with our investigators assessment and provided additional comments in 
response. Our investigator considered those additional comments but wasnt persuaded to 
change her view and recommendation that this complaint should be upheld. Since 
agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me to review and 
decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr Bs situation
The situation for Mr B wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options:
1. Transfer to the PPF;2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr B. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr B to retain guaranteed lifetime income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr B 
still had the option to retain guaranteed benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. Based on his 
age, circumstances and uncertainty about when exactly he would retire, its my view that he 
wouldve been better off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF because of the higher level 
of income it would pay. 
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve delayed its advice until more 
information about the BSPS2 became available and, once it did, started by assuming the 
BSPS2 was likely to be the most suitable option for Mr B  and to only recommend a transfer 
to the PPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best interests, as referenced in COBS 
19.1.6G.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this decision isnt to repeat or address every single point 
raised by the parties. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Im satisfied that Ive been provided 
with sufficient evidence to decide this complaint. Having considered the evidence, I agree 
with the investigators view that IFMs pension transfer advice to Mr B was unsuitable for 
largely the same reasons. In summary:
Mr Bs safeguarded benefits, accounting for 20 years and 1 month qualifying service, 
represented the backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. So I think 
its fair to say that when he came to retire he would be heavily reliant on the value of 
his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core retirement income to 
support his standard of living in retirement. IFM recorded that he was an 
inexperienced investor with a Low risk profile. Transferring to the PPP led to the 
investment, inflation and longevity risk being transferred from the scheme to Mr B. 
Taking these factors into account, its my view that there needed to be compelling 
reason why it was suitable for Mr B to transfer to the PPP compared to the alternative 
option of retaining guaranteed lifetime income under the BSPS2;
Mr B was then aged 55. IFM recorded that he wanted to retire within the next 12 
months and take TFC of £25,000 to cover the cost of some home improvements and 
to buy a car. And, following that, he wanted to receive annual retirement income of 
£17,000 until age 67 and then, once his state pension started, reduce the income 
produced by his safeguarded benefits down to £10,000. The Representative provided 
evidence to this Service that Mr B had about £14,000 in cash savings at time of the 
advice. Access to this cash and/or alternative options, such as obtaining and paying 
for a loan with his surplus disposable income, couldve potentially met Mr Bs lump 
sum need without needing to relinquish his safeguarded benefits but there isnt any 
evidence IFM adequately considered alternative options. And so I think it failed to 
demonstrate that transferring to the PPP was clearly in Mr Bs best interests in this 
regard;
IFM stated that Mr B was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund. Im not 
persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced and Low risk investor like  
Mr B to relinquish the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision in 
exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible benefits. Flexibility and 
control might sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr B had any concrete need for it. 
It was recorded that he preferred choice and control over guaranteed lifetime 
income, however Im not sure what this was based on. He had received guaranteed 
income all his working life and he had a Low risk profile. So I think a guaranteed 
income wouldve been valuable for an individual in Mr Bs circumstances and, in any 
event, he wouldve had flexible options available through the TFC available under the 
BSPS2 and Tata Steels DC pension scheme without taking risk on his main pension 
provision;
It was recorded that Mr B anticipated fully retiring soon and was happy to accept a 
lower pension income to achieve his objective. So the basis of the advice wasnt to 
enable Mr B to retire immediately but at some indeterminate point in the future. I think 
this is a key point and proves that there was uncertainty regarding when Mr B would 
retire. He accessed benefits in his PPP in April 2019, about 18 months after the 
pension transfer. Mr B did this after he reduced his working hours at Tata Steel which 
led to his employed income reducing. Its my view that Mr B only had the ability to 
access that money in the PPP due to the unsuitable advice provided by IFM  I dont 
think accessing money in the PPP transforms unsuitable advice into suitable advice. 
Its my view that had Mr B received suitable advice he wouldve retained his 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 and, at the point he wanted to access benefits, 
couldve considered his options at that time including a pension transfer, if then 
deemed suitable;
On this point, I think the suitability report misled Mr B about the ability to take early 
retirement benefits under the PPF and BSPS2 options. It stated, Early retirement is 
unlikely to be an option under the PPFwhilst the terms and conditions of the British 
Steel 2 Pension Scheme are not fully known. The reference to the PPF is incorrect 
since members are entitled to take benefits early from age 55 onwards subject to a 
reduction. The same was also true for the BSPS2. IFM portrayed the reduction as a 
penalty. But it wasnt a penalty. Rather, the reduction was applied to reflect the fact 
that the BSPS2 would have to support the income for longer than anticipated, and to 
protect the interests of scheme members generally. And so, based on what IFM said, 
its likely Mr B incorrectly believed he would be unfairly treated if he took benefits 
early under the BSPS2 when this wasnt actually the case;
IFM portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting 
income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to 
Mr B so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65. So I think he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position in this regard;
IFM calculated the critical yield to match the benefits under the BSPS at age 65 as 
9.7%. This compared with a discount rate of 3.8%, as explained by our investigator. I 
think the critical yield figure of 9.7% was misleading and understated the true, higher 
critical yield. Ill explain why. The basis of the advice was that Firm A would provide 
ongoing advice to Mr B at a cost  but the cost wasnt stated in the suitability report 
or taken into account when calculating the critical yield. Inclusion of the cost of ongoing advice wouldve increased the critical yield figure. And so I think IFM misled 
Mr B in this regard;
Notwithstanding this, the basis of the recommendation was that Mr B was seeking to 
take benefits earlier than age 65. If that was the case then I wouldve expected IFM 
to also calculate the critical yield figure at a younger age, such as 56 or 57, to enable                 
Mr B to make an informed decision. But it inexplicably only calculated and presented 
the figure at age 65 in the suitability report. I think this is a material oversight because 
the figure at younger ages wouldve been higher (compared to at age 65) due to the 
shorter investment timeframe and impact of the initial advice charge on the required 
growth rate. This means that Mr B wasnt provided accurate information about the 
level of investment growth required to match the scheme pension. And so, the true 
critical yield was likely to be well in excess of 10%. Its my view that such a rate of 
required investment growth was incompatible with Mr Bs Low risk profile, discount 
rate and the weighted estimated annual growth rate of 5.99% (before charges) of the 
recommended investment strategy. I think it was clear that Mr B would be worse off 
as a result of the pension transfer;
A change in the format of death benefits was mentioned by IFM as another reason 
for transferring to the PPP. While I understand that death benefits are important to 
consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr B about what was best 
for his own retirement provision. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. Its my view that Mr B had no health issues at the time IFM advised him 
which might reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to 
his own retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his family;
IFM portrayed the PPF as an option to avoid because it would restrict Mr Bs 
retirement. I think this was an unfair representation of the PPF. While I understand 
Mr B was concerned about the security of his safeguarded benefits, I dont consider a 
transfer to the PPF was an outcome for him to avoid. Under the PPF Mr B wouldve 
received a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with the 
recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. 
If Mr B was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF 
which would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why, as 
a Low risk investor, he would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed 
him to unlimited downside risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 
10%. This simply doesnt make sense to me and suggests that he didnt have the 
knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks and benefits of the PPF 
compared to the pension transfer; and
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why 
flexibility and early retirement objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling 
reasons for Mr B to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at that time by transferring 
to a PPP. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me the pension transfer to the 
PPP led to Mr B gaining any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative 
option of transferring to the BSPS2. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr B wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. While some information on the 
benefits of the BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, its my view that by August 2017 the risk of 
the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent following the announcement by 
the PPF in May 2017 that the terms of a RAA had been agreed. So I think IFM shouldve 
considered the BSPS2 as a viable option. So, in addition to the PPF, I think its fair to 
consider the BSPS2 as a potential comparator scheme for redress purposes.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. Im not convinced that it could be reasonably determined in 2017 that the PPF was the 
likely better option for Mr B. And so I think, given the lack of clarity surrounding when Mr B 
would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him based on what was known at the 
time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. As 
such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. For clarity, 
compensation should be based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr B accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr B £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I 
would additionally require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr B any interest 
on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£160,000, I would only require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr B any 
interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B. 
If Mr B accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr B can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.  
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman