DRN-1512815
The complaint
Ms F complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited mis-sold her an 
endowment policy for the repayment of her mortgage. She says she was told the policy 
would cost £30 a month to reach a target amount of £17,400 but if she invested an additional 
£10 a month, she would receive a healthy surplus. This hasn't transpired. 
What happened
Ms F was sold the endowment policy in 1994. The policy was set up to achieve £17,400 on 
maturity. The premium was £40 a month assuming a growth rate of 4.3% and I understand 
was invested into the managed fund. The policy matured in 2019 achieving over £18,500. 
Ms F complained about sale the endowment policy. L&G agreed the policy hadn't been a 
suitable recommendation and carried out a loss calculation. Although she had suffered a 
loss in comparison with a repayment mortgage, the maturity value of the policy was higher 
and so overall she hadn't suffered a financial loss as a result of the advice, and so it didn't 
pay any compensation. 
Our investigator was satisfied the calculation was carried out in-line with the regulator's 
approach to mortgage endowment policy mis-sale's and so Ms F wasn't due any 
compensation. But Ms F remains unhappy as she was led to believe she would get a 
substantial surplus and she could have used the premium to reduce her mortgage instead. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&G has already agreed Ms F shouldn't have been sold an endowment policy for mortgage 
repayment purposes as this wasn't suitable for her. Where a policy has been mis-sold we 
ask a business to put the customer in the position they would have been in, had they been 
given the correct advice - in this case, she should have had a repayment mortgage. 
I'm satisfied the calculation L&G has carried out is in-line with that approach and it has used 
her premium of £40. The reason Ms F hasn't suffered a loss is because the growth in her 
policy, and therefore the maturity value, was higher than the amount she would have needed 
to repay her mortgage had it been on a repayment basis and costs. 
Ms F has argued that she was led to believe she would get a lump sum over and above and 
recalls sums in the region of £21,000. I can see from the illustration Ms F was provided at 
the time that she would indeed receive a surplus of about £21,000 if the policy grew at 10%. 
So in order to achieve a maturity vastly in excess of what was needed for the mortgage, the 
performance of the investment needed to have been really good - 10%.  However, the quote 
also shows Ms F receiving in the region of £18,800 if the policy only grew at 5%. This is 
much closer to the amount she actually received. This means the reasons the policy hasn't 
reached the amount she thought it would is due to the performance of the fund being lower. There is nothing within the quote or point of sale documentation that speaks of an additional 
£10 a month investment. The quote is for the policy achieving £17,400 if the £40 monthly 
premium grows at 4.3%.  This is quite a low assumed rate of growth and most policies were 
set up with higher assumed growth rates, 7.5% not being uncommon. This meant that lower 
premiums would need higher rates of growth to achieve what they needed to on maturity. 
Conversely, Ms F's policy was set up with a lower assumed growth rate, which meant a 
higher premium that didn't need such a high level of return to achieve what it needed to. And 
importantly meant that if the policy performed really well, there would be surplus over and 
above the sum assured. 
It is very possible that Ms F could have had a policy which was set with a premium level of 
£30. But if she had, her policy would have needed to perform much better than it did. And 
because we know her policy performed in the region of 4-5%, she would likely have had a 
shortfall against the sum assured at maturity. By investing what she did, her policy has 
achieved what it needed to and a little more. I appreciate this is not at the levels that Ms F 
was expecting, but this is due to investment returns. And as she is aware, there is no 
guarantee within this policy as to what it would achieve, and I haven't seen any persuasive 
evidence that she had a stand-alone binding guarantee for the policy either. 
Overall, L&G has upheld Ms F's complaint that she was given incorrect advice. But as she 
hasn't suffered a financial loss as a result of that advice, I don't require it to pay her any 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman