DRN-4491362
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service hes received from Openwork Limited trading as The 
Openwork Partnership. He doesnt think his portfolio has been managed correctly which has 
led to unnecessary losses and funds not being transferred to his ISA as he requested. 
What happened
Mr C received investment advice from Newcastle Financial Advisers Limited, an appointed 
representative of Openwork, in 2015 (for ease of reading I will only refer to Openwork). He 
was assessed as having a cautious attitude to risk (ATR) and was advised to transfer his 
existing ISA to the Zurich platform, invest c.£15,000 into the ISA and c.£6,000 into an 
Investment Account (IA). He was also advised to invest £250 per month into the Openwork 
Graphene Cautious Model Portfolio. 
Mr C had a further review in 2017 where he was advised to increase his regular monthly 
payments to £500, and invest a lump sum of c.£7,600 in his ISA and c.£2,600 in his IA. He 
met with an adviser in 2018 and agreed that £7,500 would be transferred to his ISA.  
Mr C complained to Openwork in 2022 and said, in summary, that the 2018 ISA transfer 
hadnt been actioned and he also had concerns that the products hed been advised to 
invest in werent suitable for him. Openwork looked into the concerns that had been raised 
and acknowledged that they hadnt made the transfer. They offered Mr C £200 
compensation and explained that could transfer the outstanding amount to his ISA in the 
next tax year. 
But they didnt think they had given Mr C unsuitable advice or failed to automatically top up 
his ISA from funds held in the IA. They pointed to reviews theyd offered Mr C in 2019, 2020, 
2021 and 2022 which hed declined. They said they were unable to transfer funds between 
his accounts without his consent, so they wouldnt have been able to top up his ISA without 
firstly speaking to him.
Mr C didnt accept their findings and asked for our help. The complaint was considered by 
one of our investigators who didnt think Openwork needed to do anything else to resolve the 
complaint. He thought the recommended investments were suitable for Mr Cs 
circumstances and matched his ATR. He also thought that the compensation theyd offered 
Mr C for the error in not making the transfer in 2018 was fair.
Mr C didnt agree, he thought that hed been paying Openwork £70 per month for managing 
and transferring his funds which hadnt happened. He thought that as the funds hadnt been 
moved his losses had been exacerbated. The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will now explain why. 
From what Ive seen, Mr C met with the adviser in 2015 to discuss his investments as he 
wanted to maximise his ISA allowance and invest £250 per month in tax efficient manner. He 
was interested in looking for potentially higher returns than deposit-based investments in 
order to build up his capital to help combat the effects of inflation over the longer term.
I dont think that his ATR was incorrectly assessed, he was recorded as being a cautious 
investor which was in line with his personal circumstances and investment experience. The 
fund he was recommended to invest in was suitable for a cautious investor. It had an asset 
split of 20% UK equities, 10% US equities, 10% International equities, 35% UK bonds, 15% 
Global bonds and 10% alternatives. 
The portfolio was also rebalanced every six months to ensure that it remained in line with his 
ATR. I appreciate that the portfolio has recently experienced higher losses that what Mr C 
expected but Im satisfied that the recommendation wasnt unsuitable. Taking everything into 
consideration, Im satisfied that Openwork havent given Mr C unsuitable advice and have 
managed his investments in the manner which was agreed.
The other element of Mr Cs complaint is that his funds werent moved to his ISA 
automatically. Ive therefore considered the terms of the arrangement he had with 
Openwork. The ongoing arrangement he had with Openwork, the Monitor and Review 
service, offered a range of services including annual reporting, access to an adviser, an 
invitation to an annual review and Fund administration. 
Having reviewed the terms of the arrangement, I havent seen anything to suggest that the 
service included moving funds from Mr Cs IA to his ISA. As there was no specific agreement 
in place to automatically top up his ISA, any transfers would have to be agreed upon during 
any discussions he had with his adviser. 
Openwork have said that they needed to have a discussion with Mr C in order to determine 
how much of his yearly ISA allowance was available as he had a cash ISA elsewhere. Given 
this, I dont think I can fairly say that Openwork have done anything wrong in not moving 
funds from Mr Cs IA to his ISA automatically. 
I can also see that they tried to contact Mr C every year in order to arrange a review. There 
were a number of occasions where Mr C declined the reviews, but given that the reviews 
were offered, I dont think Openwork havent provided Mr C with the level of service they 
promised him.  
What is clear is that they didnt make the £7,500 transfer that was agreed upon in 2018. Ive 
therefore considered if this has caused Mr C any financial loss. The funds were invested in 
the same portfolio as they would have been, had they been in the ISA. This means that Mr C 
hasnt been financially disadvantaged by Openworks error. 
There could have been a potential loss due to the funds not being in a tax-free wrapper but 
given that Mr C is now able to move the funds to his ISA, he hasnt lost out. He has been 
inconvenienced, but I think the compensation Openwork have offered is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
So, in summary, having reviewed all the available evidence, I dont think Openwork have 
given Mr C unsuitable advice, they have made an error but I think the compensation theyve 
offered is fair and reasonable. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, but I 
hope he understands why I havent upheld his complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman