DRN-3114365
The complaint
Mrs M complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (BG) poor service following a claim 
under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs M reported a leak in her boiler to BG. It sent an initial engineer who didnt fully fix the 
problem. Following this, Mrs M said the BG engineers either failed to show or cancelled 
appointments. This led to Mrs M having to miss five-days work. 
Mrs M complained to BG who said that it would send another engineer. That engineer did 
not attend either. Mrs M complained to BG who then invoked its winter contingency plan and 
advised Mrs M that she could get an independent engineer, to fix her boiler and send the 
invoice to BG to reimburse, which Mrs M did. BG reimbursed the invoice.
Mrs M remained unhappy with the poor service she received from BG, that included missed 
appointments, misinformation she was given and constantly having to chase BG. In its final 
response, BG accepted that there were poor customer service issues and apologised. It 
offered £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused and confirmed that this has 
been paid. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with this outcome as she said that it didnt consider the number of days 
earnings that she lost. So, she referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
considered that the compensation offered of £250 was fair. He said that BG had reimbursed 
the cost of the independent engineer, which meant that the claim was ultimately resolved. 
But he hadnt seen any evidence to support the loss of earnings and he thought it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable to direct BG to pay the loss of earnings, without this further evidence. 
BG accepted the view. Mrs M did not. She said that BG treated its customers badly, with 
their misinformation, five days wasted in waiting for an engineer to attend. She also said that 
she was unable to provide evidence of loss of earnings as this would breach data protection. 
So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and like the investigator who looked at Mrs Ms complaint, Ive decided not 
to uphold it. I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M, but I hope my 
findings explain why. 
First though, its important to say BG accepts that there were a few failed appointments and 
BG accepts this wasnt an acceptable level of service. I agree. BG explained that it was 
affected by industrial action which meant that the availability of its engineers was reduced. 
The knock-on effect was that appointments were either missed or had to be rescheduled, as 
BG had to prioritise customers who had no heating or hot water. Thankfully, Mrs M did have 
heating and hot water.   
Im in no doubt BGs failings meant Mrs M suffered distress and inconvenience as a 
consequence. But what I must decide here, though, is what I think is fair and reasonable to 
direct BG to pay Mrs M to compensate for its failings. 
I take into account that BG reimbursed in full, the costs that Mrs M had to pay for the 
independent engineer she used to complete the repair. I also take into account that BG paid 
£250 compensation for the poor service. I can understand why Mrs M was upset to learn 
what had happened. She said that the £250 for the distress and inconvenience wasnt 
satisfactory, not least as she felt BG had been untruthful. And because of this, she sought 
more compensation. 
I have taken into consideration everything that both sides have said. But I should be clear 
that our role isnt to fine or to punish the businesses we cover. Rather, we look at the effect 
on the customer including their upset. 
Although I accept that Mrs M was frustrated by the poor service she experienced, Im 
satisfied that BGs reasons for not being able to attend as soon as it wouldve liked, are 
reasonable.  As such, I have factored in the inconvenience and frustration that Mrs M 
suffered. I think that the offer of £250 compensation is fair, and in line with what I wouldve 
recommended had BG not already done so.  
As to the loss of earnings, I asked Mrs M to provide evidence of her loss of earnings. She 
said that she wouldnt be able to provide any supporting documentation of her loss of 
earnings, as it would breach data protection rules.  Without any supporting documentation to 
prove the loss of earnings, Mrs M hasnt demonstrated that she had a valid consequential 
loss claim. So, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct BG to make an additional 
payment for the loss of earnings. 
Also, we dont directly compensate customers for lost hours of work. If we did, wed be 
compensating those with higher-paying jobs far more than others, which wouldnt seem fair. 
While I understand Mrs Ms strength of feeling, for the reasons Ive given and taking into 
account all the information I have on this complaint, I dont think that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to ask BG to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I think the payment of £250 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused, is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman