DRN-3199571
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly closed her accounts and caused
her a loss.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 12 November 2021. I was thinking of 
coming to a different outcome to our investigator, so I wanted to give both parties the chance 
to respond with anything else they wanted me to consider before coming to my final 
decision. 
Both parties have now had the opportunity to respond, and so Im now in a position to issue 
my decision on the matter.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
In November 2019, Barclays applied a block to Mrs Ks accounts, which meant she couldnt
use them. Barclays took 12 working days to investigate her accounts and after this took the
decision to close her accounts on 16 December 2019.
Mrs K says that Barclays decision to block and then close her accounts caused her a lot of
distress and inconvenience. Mrs K says that she was abroad from 6 December 2019 to 8
January 2020 and during this time, she had to borrow money from friends and family
because she didnt have access to her money, and she didnt have a different banking
facility she could use.
In addition to this, Mrs K has said that she suffered consequential losses as a result of the
block and closure of her accounts. She says that she received a late payment marker from a
credit card she has with Barclays because her direct debit wasnt collected as a result of the
account closure. She says shes lost out on interest from her savings and money she would
have got from the government in relation to her Help to Buy ISA. Mrs K also says that she
applied for a mortgage during this time, where she paid a £600 fee, but because of the
impact of Barclays placing a marker on her credit file, she was declined for the mortgage and
didnt get a refund of the fee.
Barclays responded to Mrs Ks complaint and said it had incorrectly closed her account. It
agreed that it took too long to investigate the block too. It also said that it could see it had
incorrectly applied a marker to her credit file which would have likely made it difficult for her
to get other credit. To say sorry for the things it had done wrong it offered to pay her £450.
And then later it offered an additional £100 because it incorrectly closed her account a
second time.
Our investigator looked into what had happened, but they didnt think Barclays needed to do
more for Mrs K. They thought the £550 was enough to compensate her for what had gone
wrong.
Mrs K didnt agree. She confirmed that she had lost out a lot financially as a result of what
Barclays had done. And so, she didnt think £550 was enough to resolve the matter.
Because Mrs K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on
the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Barclays has agreed that it shouldnt have closed Mrs Ks account, and it had done this in
error. It also said that it had incorrectly applied a marker to her credit file, which it shouldnt
have. Given that Barclays has agreed that it got things wrong, I dont think I need to make a
finding on these points as both parties agree. But I will look to see if Barclays has done
enough to put things right for Mrs K, and I dont currently think it has.
I have been in contact with both parties since our investigator issued their view. Barclays has
responded to me to say that it would refund the following to Mrs K:
Interest that she lost on her savings account  this totalled £6.15
Refund of the late payment charge she got on her credit card account as a result of 
the direct debit not collecting - £12.
Reimburse Mrs K £1654.03 for potential loss of benefit from her Help to Buy ISA.
I have also asked Mrs K for evidence that she has paid a £600 fee to the mortgage broker
which she has now lost out on, but she hasnt responded to my request for evidence of this.
I agree that Barclays need to reimburse Mrs K with what she has lost out in interest on her
savings account. And I think it was fair of it to refund the late payment fee she was charged
on her credit card account. Mrs K wouldnt have lost out on these amounts had Barclays not
incorrectly closed her accounts.
I have also looked at a copy of Mrs Ks credit file, I can see that her credit file was updated to
show that she didnt make a payment in January 2020. Mrs Ks direct debit didnt collect
because her account had been closed, but she later made a payment to rectify this. Because
of this, it looks like a late payment is likely to have been registered against Mrs K  I think
Barclays needs to rectify this too.
Barclays also agreed to reimburse Mrs K £1654.03. This is what Barclays has calculated
Mrs K could have lost out from the closure of her Help to Buy ISA. Ive thought about this
point very carefully when deciding if this goes far enough to put things right. Help to Buy ISA
accounts are no longer available, so it isnt now possible for Mrs K to open a new Help to
Buy ISA and continue to contribute funds to an account of this nature where she could
receive help from the government. The amount Barclays has offered Mrs K is the amount it
has calculated that she would have lost out on up until the point in which it closed the
account.
But its possible that Mrs K would have continued to contribute to the ISA (had Barclays not
closed her account) and so she had the potential to receive more from the government. Ive
also thought about the fact that Mrs K may not have decided to continue to contribute to the
ISA. Or the fact that she might not have been eligible for the benefit anyway.
So, its difficult to know what the potential losses are, or if there are any at all. And so, I thinkthe £1654.03 has offered is a fair way to settle Mrs Ks complaint in respect of the losses
resulting from the Help to By ISA.
Mrs K says she paid a £600 fee to the broker when she went to apply for a mortgage. I can
see from Mrs Ks credit file that there were a few mortgage applications that were processed,
and Mrs K says that all of these were declined. Barclays has confirmed that it had incorrectly
applied a marker to her credit file, and the marker appears to have been in place when Mrs
K applied for the mortgage. And so, I find it very unlikely that Mrs K would ever have been
accepted for a mortgage with this marker on her credit file. Ive asked Mrs K for evidence
she paid the £600. I havent seen this yet, but if she does provide me with this evidence,
then I think it would be fair of Barclays to refund this too.
Ive then gone on to consider if the £550 Barclays has offered Mrs K is a fair amount. Clearly
having her accounts closed would have been very inconvenient. Mrs K was away at the
time, and so it would have been difficult for her to make arrangements for a new banking
facility while she was away. I can imagine that borrowing money from family and friends
would have been stressful and a big inconvenience too. Ive also thought about the impact
the marker had on her credit file too. Mrs K has been through a mortgage process, applying
for credit which she was always very unlikely to get  given the marker which had been
placed. Mrs K has also lost out on the potential use of a Help to Buy ISA, which I can
understand would be frustrating for her at best. For these reasons, I dont find that the £550
Barclays has offered Mrs K is enough and I think it should increase the compensation to
£750.  
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision, so Ive assumed it has nothing further to 
add.
Mrs K responded with evidence of a £299 fee that was paid to the mortgage broker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, it is still my decision to uphold this complaint  broadly 
for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
Ive looked at the invoice Mrs K has sent this service to show the fee that was paid for the 
mortgage. However, the fee hasnt been paid by Mrs K, it was paid by someone else.  I cant 
ask Barclays to reimburse Mrs K for a loss that wasnt incurred by her. 
I have asked Barclays if it wants to consider reimbursing this cost in the circumstances, but it 
hasnt responded. So, it is up to Barclays to decide if it choses to do this or not. 
Given that neither party has raised any additional points for me to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above, Barclays should do the following to put things right for 
Mrs K (if it hasnt already done this):
Refund the interest she would have earned on her savings from the point it 
blocked/closed the accounts, until she withdrew the money and put it into a different 
banking facility.Refund the late payment fee from her credit card.
Remove the late payment marker on her credit file for the Barclays credit card.
Refund £1654.03 which is what she had potentially lost out from not being able to 
make use of the government benefit from her Help to Buy ISA.
Increase the compensation to a total of £750 (Barclays can deduct any compensation 
it has already paid to Mrs K from this amount).  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Barclays Bank 
UK PLC should put things right for Mrs K by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman