DRN-3322956
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc has charged him more than it should 
have done when he returned a car early under a conditional sale agreement. 
What happened
In September 2017 Mr W took a car from Santander on a four-year conditional sale 
agreement. Under the agreement, he was to make 48 monthly payments of just under £300 
and a final payment of a little over £7,700. The total due under the agreement was 
£25,053.72.
Mr W was entitled to end the agreement early if he wanted to, by giving notice to Santander. 
If he chose to do that, the agreement said that Santander would be entitled to the return of 
the car and half the total amount due  that is, £12,526.86. The agreement also said that, if 
Mr W had already paid that much and had taken care of the car, he would not have to pay 
any more. That was in line with the provisions of sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
The agreement also said that Mr W would be liable for any loss or damage to or 
deterioration of the car except through wear and tear. 
In January 2020 asked about ending the agreement early, as he was having trouble with the 
car. He decided to go ahead, and Santander arranged for the car to be collected. 
After the car had been collected, Santander told Mr W that he still owed more than £5,000 
under the conditional sale agreement. Mr W complained and said that he had been given a 
figure of under £1,200  in line with the early termination provisions of the agreement. 
Santander said that the car had not been returned in good condition, and so it was entitled to 
charge him for that. Specifically, although the engine started, it was not running properly. 
Mr W referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She accepted that the car had not been returned in good condition and did not 
recommend that the complaint be upheld; Santander was entitled to levy the additional 
charge, bringing the amount Mr W would pay under the agreement to more than £12,526.86.  
Mr W did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main reason Santander has cited for levying an additional charge in this case is that the 
car was not, it says, safe to drive. It was collected on a tow truck, although  as Mr W notes 
 it was possible to drive it onto the truck. The engines condition was confirmed by the 
collection agent and by the auction house which sold it for Santander; the car was not sold in 
a driveable or roadworthy condition. 
Santanders notes record that Mr W explained before he decided to end the agreement that 
he was experiencing faults with the car. I am satisfied therefore that the car was not 
driveable or roadworthy. 
That means that the car was not in good condition when it was returned to Santander and 
that Mr W was liable for its condition. He says that it was not his fault that the car had 
developed faults; that may be so  in the sense that he was not to blame  but he was liable 
under the conditional sale agreement and had to return the car in good condition. 
I accept of course that this means Mr W has to pay more than he expected, but I am 
satisfied that Santander explained his options to him and commented that early termination 
of the agreement might not be the most cost-effective of them. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to 
do any more to resolve Mr Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman