DRN-2903117
The complaint
Mr S complains that AJ Bell Management Limited (AJ Bell) had system issues that 
prevented him from trading causing him a financial loss.
Mr S would like to be compensated for the loss that he feels he incurred.
What happened
Mr S holds an execution only share dealing account with AJ Bell and has an ISA and SIPP 
with them.
On 9 November 2020, Mr S says he attempted to trade but was prevented from doing so 
because AJ Bells website was experiencing heavy volumes as a result of market news 
regarding COVID-19 vaccinations.
Mr S says that he wanted to consolidate stocks on the day and had seen opportunities in the 
market. Mr S says he would have sold his SIPP holdings and reinvested into different funds 
which he said would have increased in value by £30,000.
Mr S complained to AJ Bell who replied on 8 December 2020. In their reply, they said that 9 
November 2020 had seen their busiest ever day in terms of website traffic and this led to 
technology issues.
AJ Bell said that they will always try to maintain a full online dealing service but there may be 
times when customers cannot deal online. AJ Bell said that customers who cant deal online 
can use the telephone service instead.
AJ Bell said that Mr S did not say that he had suffered any loss but offered £250 
compensation for the inconvenience. Mr S did not accept this and referred his complaint to 
the service.
One of our investigators looked at his complaint but did not uphold the complaint. Unhappy 
with the investigators view, Mr S has asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
wont be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr S feels strongly about the complaint and I 
will explain why I have reached this decision.
When a business does something wrong that is in their control, the service will ask that they 
put the consumer back in the position that they should have been in had the error not 
occurred.
I will talk later about what the business are not in control of such as market conditions, but I 
will cover off what Mr S says he had hoped to do on 9 November 2020.
Mr S says that he had been looking to sell holdings and reinvest into other stocks but was 
prevented from doing so due to website issues.
In their submission to the service, AJ Bell have provided details of Mr S activity when using 
the website. It shows:
Mr S logged on to the Website ten times between 9.47am to 9.52pm on 9 November 
2020
No attempt was made to deal on his ISA or SIPP accounts  there are no request for 
price quotes 
Mr S says that he had intended to sell investments within his SIPP but there are no attempts 
to deal or requests for quotes for any stocks that he held within his SIPP. 
From the evidence that I have seen, I am not persuaded that Mr S made any attempt to sell 
investments in his accounts online on 9 November 2020.
Mr S has also said in his submission to the investigator that he tried to call AJ Bell 15-30 
times on 9 November 2020. AJ Bell have said that although their lines were exceptional 
busy, they were operational. Mr S has not provided any record of his attempted calls so Im 
unable to comment on this.
Mr S says that he has suffered a financial loss as a result of not being able to trade. AJ Bell 
have provided prices of the stocks that Mr S held in his ISA account. They say that Mr S sold 
these investments later that month but the prices that he achieved were not materially 
different and, in some cases, higher than what they were on 9 November 2020.
Mr S says that he would have sold his SIPP investments, but AJ Bell have said that although 
he was able to log in to his account between 9  11 November 2020, Mr S did not attempt to 
deal or request any quotes for prices.
Based on the information that I have seen, I cant say that Mr S made any attempt to trade 
through his AJ Bell account either online of via telephone. Mr S had negative balances on 
his ISA and SIPP accounts so he would have needed to sell investments before being able 
to purchase different stocks.
I have not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr S has suffered any loss of investment 
opportunity as he was unable to trade through the website.
I have also looked at what AJ Bell say in their terms and conditions about prevailing market 
conditions  it says:
You may experience occasional interruption to the Website as a result of routine or non-
routine maintenance, upgrades of the Website, failure of or disruption to the Internet or in 
extreme market conditions or due to systems malfunction or failure. 
AJ Bell customers saw extreme market conditions on 9 November, and it is likely that there 
was interruption to the Website. I said earlier what the service would expect when a 
business does something wrong that is in their control. I cant say that the market conditions 
experienced on 9 November 2020 was within their control and Im not going to ask them to 
do anything else.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman