DRN-3454944
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains Barclays Bank PLC has withheld payments from its 
merchant services account.
What happened
M entered into a merchant services agreement with Barclays on 10 May 2021. M then took a
number of high value card payments on 21 May 2021, totalling about £190,000. M says 
these payments were from a syndicate who were purchasing a large item. Barclays said it 
had some concerns about these payments, and so would not pay M the money until it was 
certain there was not likely to be a claim for these payments to be returned  for example 
through chargebacks. Barclays also decided to give notice of termination for Ms account. 
Since then Barclays says all the payments have been reclaimed through the card scheme  
Mastercard in this case  via chargeback claims made by the cardholders.
M says that the payments were legitimate, its customers have not received any refund of the 
payments and wants the money paid into Ms account.
Our investigator said Barclays had acted within the terms and conditions of the merchant 
services agreement. He also noted it seemed likely M had been a victim of fraud and the 
payments had not been made by the legitimate card holders.
M did not agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed, so this case has now been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the merchant services agreement M agreed to. 
These state in Section 4 the card issuer is entitled to request reimbursement of a payment 
from Barclays if the cardholder or account holder denies authorising a card-not-present 
transaction  this is a common chargeback reason. And in Section 12 the terms and 
conditions explain payments can be withheld if Barclays reasonably believes that its 
customer (in this case M) may become liable to it due to the type of payment indicating an 
increased risk of chargebacks.
So, in line with the terms and conditions M agreed to, Barclays was entitled to withhold funds 
if it was concerned about the risk of chargebacks and was entitled to reimburse the card 
holder if requested via a chargeback. 
But I also need to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to exercise those 
rights in the circumstances of this complaint. And having thought carefully about everything 
Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays did act fairly and reasonably here.
Ive looked at what Barclays has said about why it initially decided to withhold the payments 
from M. Specifically, Barclays has provided evidence it considered the following:
- The payments were far in excess of what it was expecting Ms average payment 
value to be
- The payments were done as card-not-present transactions which are a higher risk for 
chargebacks
- The payments were all via non-UK credit cards 
- When it spoke to M about the payments it said they were for an item which was 
outside of what M had told Barclays it sold
- M had no online presence or business premises
- The payments were not authorised correctly
I can see from the messages M has shared between it and Barclays the first of these points 
isnt quite right. M told Barclays its average transaction value would be around £100,000 to 
£200,000, but it doesnt seem this was correctly recorded. However, even with this in mind, 
card-not-present transactions present a much higher risk of being fraudulent, and along with 
the other points noted by Barclays, I consider the nature of the transactions was enough for 
Barclays to have reasonable concern they might result in chargebacks. 
M challenged Barclays decision, and provided evidence from its customers to say they had 
authorised the payments. But having seen that evidence I am satisfied it was reasonable for 
Barclays to continue to hold the payments until it was satisfied chargebacks wouldnt be 
requested by the card holders. For example, the evidence M provided included photocopies 
of the credit cards used for the payments  and the passports for each card holder, but there 
are indications these photocopies may not be of legitimate documents. For example, one of 
the passports has an issue date of October 2023. This leads me to consider it was a copy of 
a false document and so casts doubt on all the other documents provided in the same 
submission. And, ultimately, chargebacks were requested by the legitimate card holders, 
which suggests Barclays was right to be concerned about the validity of the payments.
Lastly, I must consider whether it was reasonable for Barclays to reimburse the card holders 
when chargebacks were requested via the card holders. Ive seen the dispute resolution 
forms Mastercard sent to Barclays for each transaction, and Im satisfied it was reasonable 
for Barclays to act on them given the legitimate card holders had challenged the payments 
via their card issuer.  It follows I find it was reasonable for Barclays to reimburse the card 
holders for the payments, via Mastercard.
I also note that Barclays decided to terminate its agreement with M, but again Barclays was 
entitled to do so, in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. And Im satisfied 
with what Ive seen that it was reasonable for Barclays to decide to exercise that right here.
I know this is not the outcome M was looking for, but nonetheless, with everything Ive seen, 
Im satisfied Barclays has treated M fairly and reasonably here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Sophie MitchellOmbudsman