DRN-3547020
The complaint
N  a company  has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling and settlement 
of claim it made for subsidence damage to one of its properties.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022, explaining that I was intending 
to partially uphold it. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
There have been several businesses involved in this complaint who have acted on 
behalf of either N or Aviva. In my provisional decision below, any reference to N or 
Aviva includes actions or arguments taken or put forward by their respective 
agents/representatives. 
N made a claim for cracking damage to one of its properties in 2013. Aviva appointed 
an engineer who confirmed the cause of damage to be tree induced clay shrinkage 
subsidence. The engineer recommended the removal of nearby vegetation followed 
by some structural and decorative repairs. The repairs were to be deferred until the 
following year, to allow the ground to rehydrate following removal of the vegetation. 
The structural works recommended included the fitting of helical reinforcement bars 
to the significant crack on the side elevation of the property. The repair work wasnt 
completed until mid-2015.
N appointed its own contractor to carry out some renovations to the property in 2015, 
with a view to letting the property to a housing association/charity. Ns contractor said 
the quality of the work carried out by Aviva was poor. N complained to Aviva about 
this, but the dispute wasnt resolved. The prospective tenant decided not to rent the 
property.
In 2016, N instructed its contractor to carry out significant renovations, including 
repairing the alleged poor work previously carried out by Aviva. Following this, N 
listed the property for sale and secured a buyer. But in November 2016, the sale fell 
through when the homebuyers survey identified several issues with the property, 
including potential ongoing subsidence.
N reported this to Aviva and, following additional investigations, the claim was 
accepted as a continuation of the 2013 claim. A contractor was appointed to carry out 
the works, but these were delayed due to damp at the property which Aviva said 
wasnt linked to the subsidence, but rather to the repairs N had carried out by its own 
contractor and/or rising damp.
In 2019, with the dispute over the damp still unresolved, squatters gained access to 
the property and caused further damage. Aviva declined to cover this damage 
because the property was vacant when the damage occurred, and malicious damage 
is specifically excluded in these circumstances.
Ns complaint is that all of the damage and issues which occurred after the 2013 
claim are as a result of Avivas poor workmanship. It says no helical bars were ever 
fitted, and some of the vegetation which was supposed to be removed wasnt. Had 
the work been carried out properly, N contends that none of the subsequent damage 
would have happened. N is seeking to be fully reimbursed for the works its contractor 
carried out in 2016 and for Aviva to cover the cost of repairing the damp damage, 
squatter damage and to reimburse it for loss of rent between 2014 and 2019. Or 
alternatively, to compensate it for the lost sale in 2016.
Aviva hasnt disputed that the initial repairs werent carried out in line with the 
recommendations of its engineer. But it disputes that its works were the cause of the 
subsequent damp issues, which delayed the final works. It says these issues have 
been caused by the work of Ns contractor. Aviva also doesnt agree that it should 
cover loss of rent. This is because N didnt have a paying tenant in the property when 
the initial claim commenced and didnt put the property on the rental market after its 
contractor completed the renovations. 
Based on the recommendations of its surveyor, Aviva made an offer of contribution to 
the costs incurred by N. This was to cover 50% of the costs which it agreed could be 
attributed to the subsidence related repairs and internal decoration. To this amount it 
said it would apply 8% interest from the point N was out of pocket to the date of its 
offer. And Aviva also offered to pay £2,000 compensation in recognition of the delays 
and issues it had caused during the claim.
One of our investigators considered Ns complaint and thought it should be partially 
upheld. He said Aviva failed to follow the recommendations of its own engineer when 
carrying out repairs initially and this resulted in a repair which was neither lasting nor 
effective. He also felt the subsequent damp issues were most likely caused by the 
inadequate repairs carried out by Aviva. But our investigator felt that N hadnt 
appropriately quantified its losses and that it hadnt sufficiently mitigated its losses 
either. 
So, our investigator concluded that a fair settlement for the damage would be for 
Aviva to pay 50% of the costs N incurred in redoing the subsidence cracking repairs 
and for it to calculate and pay 50% of the costs N would incur in addressing the 
subsequent damp damage. Our investigator agreed that Aviva didnt need to cover 
loss of rent (or loss of sale opportunity) and that it didnt need to cover the damage 
caused by the squatters either. Finally, our investigator agreed that Aviva hadnt 
handled Ns claim well, but he concluded that the £2,000 compensation it had offered 
was enough to fairly compensate N for the impact of its errors.
N didnt agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider things. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Having done so Im minded to reach a slightly different outcome to that reached by 
our investigator. From what Ive seen, there are five issues which remain in dispute. 
For ease of reference, Ill address them separately.Initial repairs
Avivas appointed engineer confirmed Ns property was affected by tree induced clay 
shrinkage subsidence in 2013. To remedy the issues, he suggested the following:
We recommend the removal of the conifer screen to a length at least 6m 
beyond the rear left hand corner of the building.
We also recommend removal of two of the purple leaved trees located close 
to the left hand flank wall closest to (redacted). 

Externally structural repair of the rendered elevation should be undertaken 
with helical reinforcing bars installed within the underlying external masonry 
wall before locally rerendering (sic). 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Aviva failed to remove all of the vegetation 
which ought to have been removed. Nor does it seem to dispute that the helical bars 
werent fitted when the crack repairs were carried out in 2015 either. What remains in 
dispute is whether Aviva ought to reimburse N, in full, for the costs it incurred in 
redoing the works which Aviva completed in 2015.
Aviva says the scope of works for the initial repairs only included hacking out six 
linear meters of render from the side elevation. So, it doesnt agree that it should 
have to cover Ns costs in stripping and re-rendering the entire side elevation. 
Instead Aviva has offered to contribute 50% of the costs incurred by N for the 
following works:
Scaffolding used to repair side elevation
Hack-off side wall and render
Paint exterior of house
Plastering of entire house
Internal decoration throughout
N says that due to Avivas poor initial works, the side elevation required stripping 
back so that further cracks, caused by further subsidence movement and not 
previously repaired, could be appropriately repaired.
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said and provided here. Its 
difficult to know for certain what works were actually completed initially given that 
Aviva has accepted no helical bars were fitted, despite them being required. But what 
is clear is that Aviva failed to deliver a lasting and effective repair when given the 
opportunity and that this led to further movement and damage. And that Aviva had a 
reasonable opportunity to review and inspect the issues before N went ahead and did 
the works, but it failed to fully engage.
So, based on the above, Im intending to direct Aviva to cover 100% of the costs 
incurred by N for the scaffolding, rendering, external painting and interior plastering. 
This is because, on balance, Im persuaded that it was reasonable for N to conclude 
that these works needed to be completely redone. To this amount, Aviva should add 
interest, in line with the offer it already made. But as Im intending to increase the 
amount due to N here, Aviva should apply interest until the date of settlement, rather 
than to the date of its previous offer.However, I note from correspondence between N and Avivas engineer initially that 
the internal decorations at the property werent intended to be covered from the 
outset, owing to their poor pre-existing condition and various outstanding 
maintenance issues. So, for this particular item, I consider that Avivas offer of a 50% 
contribution is fair and reasonable, subject to the addition of interest. And as Im not 
increasing the offer Aviva already made here, Aviva only needs to pay interest to the 
date of its original offer.
Damp issues
After Ns potential sale fell through, Aviva accepted that the property was still 
suffering from subsidence and agreed to cover the claim as an extension of the initial 
claim. Following a period of unexplained delay, Avivas appointed contractor halted 
the works. They reported the property was suffering from significant damp issues 
which needed to be addressed before repairs could be completed.
N contends that the damp issues have been caused by Avivas poor repairs, either 
by moisture entering through the cracks or because of the proximity of the vegetation 
left in situ. Aviva contends that the damp was caused because of longstanding issues 
with the render and/or the repairs completed by Ns own contractor. And it says the 
damp issue was exacerbated by the fact the property was left empty and unheated 
for a prolonged period. 
Previously, Avivas appointed surveyor had suggested the damp issues could 
potentially have been caused by rising damp. But this was later ruled out after 
dehumidifiers were used and the damp didnt reappear.
N has also argued that its contractors work was only required because Aviva failed 
in its duty during the initial claim. So, even if it accepted its contractors works caused 
or contributed to the damp issues, N feels Aviva is ultimately responsible in any 
event.
Again, Ive thought carefully about the submissions and evidence from both sides 
regarding this issue. Having done so, Im minded to reach a different conclusion to 
our investigator. This is because I dont agree with Ns assertion that its reasonable 
for its contractors responsibilities to deliver suitable repairs to be waived, purely 
because of Avivas prior failure.
As stated in the above section, I agree that Aviva was required to deliver a lasting 
and effective repair and that it failed to do so. So, I agree it is responsible for 
covering the costs of the work required to correct its issues. But I think the chain of 
Avivas responsibility for the quality of the required repairs is broken once Ns own 
contractor carried out works.
From what Ive seen, the potential homebuyers report highlighted issues with the 
external render which it concluded were likely to have caused or contributed to the 
damp issues. It also highlighted an ineffective or breached damp proof course. As I 
understand it, from the contractors own invoice and subsequent communications, it 
was Ns contractor who carried out re-rendering, damp proofing works (through a 
sub-contractor), and internal plastering. Avivas surveyor agreed that some moisture would undoubtedly have got into the 
structure through the cracks present initially. But given the works Ns contractor was 
carrying out, I think it was incumbent upon the contractor to ensure the structure was 
sufficiently dried out prior to completing the works which it did, and that it was 
watertight afterwards. And as it doesnt appear to have done so, I dont agree that it 
would be fair or reasonable to hold Aviva responsible for this.
N has also argued that the damp issues could have been caused by water entering 
the structure due to the proximity of the vegetation roots and further instance of 
subsidence movement. It says the surveyors report completed by Aviva in late 2016 
shows that there was significant structural damage as a result of the further 
subsidence movement. 
Having reviewed this report, I dont agree that the damage it shows was significant, 
or likely to have caused the damp issues. I say this because the report specifically 
categorises the damage present at that time, based on categorisations widely used in 
the construction industry. The damage was categorised as very slight or between 
0.1 to 1mm. So, I dont consider it likely that these cracks would have allowed 
sufficient moisture into the structure to cause the damp issues reported.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im currently minded to conclude that Aviva doesnt 
need to contribute to the cost of repairing the damp issues. 
Loss of rent/sale
N has provided evidence to show that it had a prospective tenant wishing to rent the 
property in 2015. It says the ongoing subsidence issues resulted in the tenant pulling 
out. So, N wants Aviva to cover its loss of rent. And it has argued that this should be 
covered from mid-2014 which is when the initial repairs were supposed to have been 
completed by.
Aviva says that at the point of the initial claim, N didnt have a paying tenant in the 
property, so it doesnt agree loss of rent should be due. Instead an employee of Ns 
lived there rent free, in lieu of managing a nearby commercial building also owned by 
N. And this tenant vacated the property due to ill health, rather than because of the 
subsidence. 
I agree that Aviva doesnt need to cover loss of rent from the point of the initial claim. 
However, I would potentially be inclined to award loss of rent from 2015, if I was 
persuaded that the reason N lost out on the prospective tenant was solely due to the 
subsidence issues.
Ive thought about this. But from what Ive seen, the condition of the property, prior to 
Ns renovation works was poor, as shown by Avivas refusal to cover internal 
decorations. And Ns contractors invoice shows that the property required significant 
works, such as a full rewire and new boiler alongside moving walls, replastering, and 
installing an en-suite. Taking this into account, on balance, Im not persuaded that 
the subsidence damage was the only reason the property couldnt be let in 2015. So, 
Im not intending to award loss of rent here.Following completion of the renovations, N didnt list the property for rent, rather it put 
it up for sale and secured a buyer. The sale fell through when the homebuyers 
survey identified ongoing movement, among other issues. N says that if Aviva 
doesnt cover loss of rent, it should cover Ns losses as a result of the failed sale. It 
wants Aviva to pay either interest on the sale offer less the increase in value, which it 
says amounts to £15,000, or to reimburse N for a lost investment opportunity which it 
says it can evidence amounts to around £750,000.
If I were persuaded that the sole reason for the sale falling through was the ongoing 
subsidence movement, I might be inclined to make an award here. Although I should 
point out that any award, I might be inclined to make, would be subject to our 
services financial limits. 
But having considered the homebuyer survey, Im not intending to direct Aviva to 
cover Ns alleged losses for the sale falling through. This is because the homebuyers 
survey identified numerous other significant issues, in addition to ongoing movement. 
These included the render and damp issues, which Im currently persuaded N is 
responsible for, as well as issues with the roof, rainwater fittings, and fascia. So, 
based on this, I cant reasonably conclude that the sole reason the sale fell through 
was because of the ongoing subsidence issues. 
Squatter damage
In 2019, squatters gained access to Ns property using a key box used by Avivas 
contractors. They caused significant damage which N wants Aviva to cover. 
Aviva says there is no cover under the policy for malicious damage caused while the 
property is vacant. But N says the only reason the property was vacant was because 
of Avivas poor handling of matters up to that point.
Again, I accept that Avivas handling of the initial claim and repairs was poor. But I 
dont agree that it is responsible for the damp issues which manifested following Ns 
renovations. And from what Ive seen it was these damp issues which prevented 
Aviva from completing the repairs required as a result of the further subsidence 
movement. So, as Im minded to conclude that N (by virtue of its contractor) is 
responsible for the damp issues, it follows that I dont think Aviva is responsible for 
the property being vacant at the time the squatters gained access.
Insurers are entitled to set the risks which they are and arent prepared to cover. In 
this case, Aviva specifically set out in the policy wording that it wouldnt cover 
malicious damage where a property was vacant. This is likely because a property is 
at a higher risk of suffering this type of damage when vacant. 
So, as the type of damage reported is specifically excluded, and because I dont think 
Aviva are responsible for the property being vacant, Im not currently intending to 
direct Aviva to deal with the claim for damage caused by the squatters.
Compensation
It isnt in dispute that Aviva hasnt handled Ns claim well. It failed to deliver a lasting 
and effective repair initially. It also doesnt seem to have appropriately engaged with 
Ns complaint about the quality of its initial repairs, when this was first raised  which 
is what resulted in N having the works carried out by its own contractor.
Ive also seen that there were several periods of unexplained or unreasonable 
delays, some of which I think can be solely attributed to Aviva. Aviva has 
acknowledged this and has offered £2,000 compensation.As N is a commercial entity, it cannot experience distress, only inconvenience. I also 
note that there seems to have been a period of delay, early in the claim, which was 
caused by N, rather than Aviva. This is based on a letter which was sent to N in 
November 2014, which stated Aviva had made several attempts to begin repairs but 
received no response. So, I cant fairly conclude that Aviva is solely responsible for 
all of the delays, or the impact they had on N.
Taking everything thats happened into account, I think the £2,000 compensation 
offered is sufficient to compensate N for the inconvenience it has experienced, as a 
result of the issues and delays which Aviva is solely responsible for. So, Im not 
intending to direct Aviva to increase this amount.
I said I was intending to direct Aviva to reimburse N £11,890 for the scaffolding, rendering, 
external painting and interior plastering and £1,207.50 for the interior decorations. To these 
amounts I said I was intending to direct Aviva to add 8% simple interest. I also said I was 
minded to conclude that Avivas offer of £2,000 compensation for the poor handling of the 
claim was fair.
I asked both sides to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider before I reached a final decision.
N provided a detailed response to my provisional decision. In summary, it said:
It accepted my findings, and suggested awards, regarding the reimbursements and 
the compensation for the claim handling.
It didnt accept my conclusions about the damp issues, for the reasons previously 
stated. It maintained that Aviva had failed to adequately investigate the quality of its 
previous works. So, N said it reasonably could have taken no action at all. It said it 
shouldnt be penalised for attempting to take action to mitigate its losses. Ultimately it 
says that, but for Avivas inadequate repairs, no damp would have occurred.
It has evidenced the property was in an excellent condition from August 2016 
onwards. So rather than awarding no loss of rent, the period loss of rent should be 
paid for should simply be amended to the period August 2016 to August 2019.
It said a report was completed by a subsidence specialist in 2019 which it hasnt had 
sight of. But it believes this report confirms the previous poor repairs and that the 
subsidence rendered an otherwise rentable or saleable property as neither. It wanted 
me to obtain and review this report, if I hadnt already had sight of it.It didnt accept that the sale fell through for a multitude of reasons. It says the other 
issues could be easily remedied, but subsidence or potential subsidence will likely 
always put off a potential buyer.
It didnt accept my findings regarding the squatter damage for the reasons already 
stated.
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now passed, 
so Im moving forward with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Several of my provisional findings have been accepted by N and not commented on by 
Aviva. So, Ill not be commenting further on these issues as part of this decision. Instead Ill 
maintain my conclusions on those points, for the reasons already given in my provisional 
decision. 
Ill focus on deciding those points which remain in dispute following my provisional decision. 
And as with my provisional decision, Ill address each separately.
Damp issues
I considered the evidence and arguments put forward regarding this issue before reaching 
my provisional decision.
I accept that there were failings on Avivas part and that, based on these, it should be 
required to cover the cost of putting right the damage which resulted, directly, from its 
failings. Its for this reason I said I was intending to award costs incurred by N for various 
works. 
However, as with my provisional decision, I dont agree that it would be fair to hold Aviva 
responsible for further damage which happened subsequently, following repairs undertaken 
by Ns own contractor. While I accept the fact that Ns contractor only needed to carry out 
work because of Avivas errors, I dont think this absolves that contractor from responsibility 
for the quality of its own work.
Had N not instructed its contractor to carry out repairs, and damp materialised prior to Aviva 
intervening, then it could be argued that Avivas failings or inaction directly led to the damp 
issues. In these circumstances, I would likely hold Aviva responsible for putting right the 
damp issues and resultant damage. But in this case, as explained in my provisional decision, 
I think the chain of causation (and thus of Avivas responsibility) was broken when Ns 
contractor carried out works.
Ultimately, I think the damp issues were caused by the works carried out by Ns contractor. 
And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct Aviva to cover the cost of putting this 
right.Loss of rent
I can confirm that I have had sight of the subsidence experts report referred to by N in its 
response to my provisional decision, and that I had considered this when reaching my 
provisional decision.
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think the sole reason N lost out on a 
prospective tenant in 2015 was because of Avivas failings. And my view on this point 
remains unchanged for the reasons already given.
I do accept that N has provided evidence that the property was in a rentable condition 
following completion of its contractors repairs in 2016. Although I would highlight that it 
wouldnt remain so for long, owing to the damp issue which materialised shortly afterwards 
and which Ive decided Aviva isnt responsible for. But, in any event, that isnt why I 
provisionally concluded that Aviva didnt need to pay loss of rent between 2016 and 2019. I 
said this because once those repairs were completed, N didnt make any attempt to let the 
property, rather it attempted to sell it instead. 
So, as N didnt have a tenant in the property at the time of the loss, didnt lose out on a 
prospective tenant solely due to Avivas actions, and didnt attempt to let the property 
following its contractors works, I remain of the view that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
require Aviva to pay loss of rent in these circumstances.
Loss of sale
I accept Ns assertion that a prospective buyer is likely to be put off by mention of 
subsidence in a homebuyer report. I dont disagree that this was likely a factor in the 
potential buyer pulling out of the sale. But Aviva wasnt responsible for the subsidence 
originally, so the very fact the property had suffered subsidence, regardless of Avivas 
involvement, may have been an important factor for the purchaser. And in any event, I dont 
agree that all the other issues highlighted in the homebuyer report were minor, or that they 
wouldnt have also factored into the buyers decision to pull out.
While the rainwater fittings and fascia issues may have been minor, the homebuyer report 
mentioned issues with the roof alongside significant damp and damp proofing issues. I dont 
agree these are minor issues.
Taking everything into account, I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that the sole 
reason N was unable to sell the property in 2016 was the ongoing subsidence movement. 
So, I wont be directing Aviva to cover Ns alleged losses for the loss of a potential sale.
Squatter damage
I explained in detail in my provisional decision why I didnt intend to uphold this element of 
Ns complaint. 
Neither N nor Aviva have provided additional comments or evidence on this point. So, in the 
absence of new evidence, and considering my findings on the damp issue, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional conclusions here.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint in 
part.
Aviva Insurance Limited must:
Reimburse N £11,890 for the scaffolding, rendering, external painting and interior 
plastering. To this amount add 8% simple interest* from the date N was out of pocket 
to the date of settlement.
Reimburse N £1,207.50 for the interior decorations. To this amount add 8% simple 
interest* from the date N was out of pocket to 15 February 2021.
Pay N £2,000 compensation for the poor handling of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
*If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell N how much its taken off. It should also give N a 
tax deduction certificate if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman