DRN-3751650
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) hasnt reimbursed him the funds it 
was unable to recover when he fell victim to a scam. This has resulted in Mr P being in debt 
to a third party.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision.
Mr P fell victim to a scam in 2019. He made four payments, totalling over £10,000. Barclays 
issued a temporary refund to Mr P while it investigated the matter and was able to recover 
three of the payments, so the refund remained. But it wasnt able to recover the fourth 
payment, for £3,246.11. So, Barclays re-debited this amount, leading to Mr P being 
overdrawn on his account.
Mr P made some payments towards the amount owing, but the majority of the debt 
remained, and it was ultimately sold on to a third party in June 2021. Following this, Mr P 
raised a complaint about what had happened  he felt that Barclays should reconsider the 
scam and that it was unfair Barclays didnt reimburse the remaining amount.
Barclays said it had investigated in full back in 2019 so wouldnt be reconsidering the matter. 
And it said it was now too late to investigate a dispute or fraud claim under the chargeback 
scheme operated by VISA. It didnt know why some of the payments were recoverable as 
the documents only stay on record for six months  it may be that the merchant didnt 
respond on the three that were successful.  
Our investigator considered the complaint. He didnt think Barclays should have intervened 
at the time of the payments being made. And he didnt think Barclays had made an error in 
its attempt to recover the remaining funds  which was unsuccessful. So he concluded that it 
also wasnt unfair for Barclays to recover the outstanding balance from Mr P. 
Mr P disagreed so the complaint was passed to me. I let Mr P know, informally, how I was 
minded to proceed which was generally to agree with the outcome reached by our 
investigator. Mr P asked that I formalise my decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator  Ill explain why.
Mr Ps complaint is that Barclays couldnt recover the amount and that it held him 
liable for this amount as a result, which led to the debt being sold on. But, as our 
investigator has done, the first thing to consider is whether Barclays should have 
stopped the payments, before looking at its recovery attempts  as this is what led to 
the debt. 
Im satisfied that Mr P fell victim to a scam. But Mr P authorised the payments from 
his Barclays debit card account, albeit not realising he was being scammed. So, the 
starting position  in line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017  is that hes 
liable for the transactions.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id 
expect Barclays to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In some 
circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional checks 
before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold Barclays liable.
Ive considered whether Barclays ought to have made additional checks on the 
disputed payments. And I dont think it ought to have. I say this because, while the 
payments werent low and were international payments, Im not persuaded that they 
should have stood out to Barclays as being significantly unusual or out of character. 
The payments ranged from around £800 to around £4,100. But in the months just 
prior to these payments, Mr P made payments, including international ones, ranging 
from £4,000 to £10,000. So the payments made towards the scam wouldnt have 
looked out of character to Barclays  and I therefore wouldnt have expected them to 
trigger Barclays fraud alert systems. 
Ive thought next about recovery. As three of the four payments were recovered, Ive 
only considered the remaining one of £3,246.11. Ive seen that Barclays raised a 
chargeback for the reason Merchandise/Services Not Received and that this was 
defended by the merchant. It provided evidence that the funds were transferred into 
cryptocurrency, which Mr P seemingly confirmed receipt of. So, the chargeback was 
unsuccessful as the merchant carried out the service it was required to. I dont think 
Barclays could reasonably have done more to recover the funds  I dont consider it 
should have pursued this chargeback further as I cant see that it would have 
ultimately succeeded.
I recognise that the key issue here is that Mr P has an outstanding debt owing. But 
this debt is because of the scam that Mr P fell victim to. As outlined above, I dont 
think Barclays made an error by not intervening with the payments. And it did what it 
could reasonably have been expected to in terms of recovery. Im really sorry that 
Mr P has lost out at the hands of a scammer, and this isnt in dispute. But in 
accepting that Mr P has been scammed, it doesnt mean that Barclays has to provide 
a refund. As Barclays did all I would expect it to have done, I dont hold it liable for 
the loss. 
So, that means Barclays was entitled to ask Mr P to repay this sum, and ultimately to 
pass the debt on if it remained unpaid. It isnt for me to consider the actions of the 
third party, as this is a separate entity to Barclays  but I note Mr P appears unhappy 
with the third party, so he may want to consider whether to pursue a separate 
complaint about it. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman