DRN-2418373
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy with Covea Insurance plcs (Covea) decision to decline cover for her pet 
insurance claim. Ms G wants Covea to settle the claim, refund three years of premiums she 
says have been taken from her in error and pay compensation.
 
All references to Covea include agents appointed to act on Coveas behalf.
What happened
Ms G says she took her pet dog to the vet for a booster injection in December 2017. During 
this visit, and following routine tests for the booster, the vet noticed a slight heart murmur. 
Ms G says the vet told her that her dog didnt need any treatment at that time. Ms G says her 
dog then developed a cough in early 2019 so she took him to the vet and was told that his 
heart had become worse and the murmur would now need treatment. Ms G then paid for 
treatment between March 2019 and June 2019. She put in two claims for the treatment costs 
which were declined by Covea.    
Ms G complained to Covea who said they received a claim for Ms Gs dogs heart disease in 
early June 2019, the treatment dates for which were between March 2019 to May 2019. This 
was for the amount £385.20. A continuation claim for the same condition was then received 
later in June 2019 for the amount of £121.46. 
Covea said they were unable to consider both claims because they had received 
confirmation that Ms Gs dogs condition was related to the diagnosis of a heart murmur 
which was noted during a consultation for a vaccination on 12 December 2017. Covea 
explained, under the terms and conditions of Ms Gs policy, she is only able to claim for 
veterinary treatment for up to 365 days from when the condition was first noted, so this 
meant they were able to consider all veterinary treatment costs on or up to 11 December 
2018. Covea said the treatment dates which Ms G was claiming for were more than 365 
days after the condition was first treated. Covea didnt uphold the complaint.
 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms 
G and Covea on 17 November 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
The claim
My starting point is Ms Gs pet insurance policy which sets out the terms and 
conditions of her policy. Under a section headed The meaning of words in the policy 
it defines 12 months as 365 days calculated from the treatment date.. The policy 
also says the following:
 
Treatment:
Any examination, consultation, advice, tests, x-rays, medication, surgery, 
hospitalisation, nursing and care provided by a veterinary practice.
Treatment Date:
The date that your pet first received treatment for the illness or injury being 
claimed.
Section lA - Veterinary fees
What we will not pay
4. The cost of any treatment your pet receives more than 12 months after the
    treatment date.
6. The cost of any medicines or materials prescribed or supplied to be used
       more than 12 months after the treatment date.
So, taking this into account, I agree the time periods which Ms G is claiming for are 
12 months after the vet first advised that her dog had a heart murmur. But, to assess 
whether Covea have applied their policy fairly, Ive looked at whether its reasonable 
for them to have started the 12 months from December 2017. 
I think its fair for an insurer to start the 12 months from when a consumer can first 
reasonably make a claim on their policy. This is usually when a vet recommends 
some sort of investigation or treatment for clinical signs displayed by the pet. 
Otherwise a consumer could lose out on much or even all of the cover provided by 
the policy so wont have had the benefit of the cover theyve paid for.
Ive looked at Ms Gs dogs medical history and this shows the vet did note a low 
grade heart murmur during a visit for a booster in December 2017. The notes for this 
visit dont show any further consultation was booked or any treatment recommended 
in relation to the heart murmur. Ms G took her dog for another booster on 28 
December 2018 and the heart murmur was again noted. The medical records show 
the vet recorded this as a Grade 3/6 systolic heart murmur. The record for this visit 
shows the vet recommended a cardiac scan but Ms G declined. The notes show Ms 
G then visited the vet in March 2019 where they noted her dog had a grade 3-4/6 
systolic heart murmur. The notes show this was a consultation which was specific to 
the heart murmur. 
In this case, theres no dispute that Ms G was told about her dogs heart murmur in 
December 2017 but I havent seen any evidence which shows that any treatment 
was recommended at this point. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ms G to 
take no action in relation to treatment for her dogs condition at that time. Taking this 
into account, I feel its unreasonable for Covea to treat the visit in December 2017 as 
the treatment date. I intend to take the view that the treatment date was 28 
December 2018. I say this because the vet noted the heart murmur again and the 
medical notes show the reading had moved from low grade to Grade 3/6. And, I think 
this caused some concern given that the vet recommended further investigation in 
the form of a scan. I believe this shows that a clinical sign was shown by Ms Gs dog 
which the vet felt needed further action.
    
Ive looked at the insurance claim form submitted by Ms G. There is an instruction on 
the claim form for section four to be completed by the veterinary practice. The 
veterinary practice have noted the illness began on 26 March 2019 and theyve noted 
this is also when the treatment started. Importantly though, theres a question which 
asks if the pet has been treated for this illness or a similar related condition before, 
the veterinary practice have ticked this as No. 
While I intend to take the view that the treatment date was 28 December 2018, I feel 
the information in the claim form is relevant because it supports Ms Gs submission 
that the treatment date shouldnt be taken as December 2017.
 Additionally, the policy refers to Treatment Date and, given what Ive said about the 
meaning of the term treatment, I believe the treatment date was 28 December 2018. 
This would mean that Ms Gs claims were made within the required 365 days from 
the treatment date. 
In considering the claim, I can see Covea sought further clarification from the vet 
about whether the heart issues identified in 2017 and 2018 related to the condition 
being claimed for. The vet confirmed it was related. I dont dispute the heart murmur 
was picked up during the visit in December 2017 and that this condition relates to the 
claim which Ms G later made. However, the key point in considering whether Covea 
should meet the claim is the treatment date. And, I dont think the clarification from 
the vet makes any reference to the heart murmur, noted in December 2017, in a way 
which suggests that active treatment was required then.
 
In light of the above, I think Covea have acted unreasonably in declining Ms Gs 
claims so I intend to uphold this complaint. Ms G has paid treatment costs of £385.20 
and £121.46 so I intend on deciding that it would be reasonable for Covea to refund 
those. Covea can deduct from this any excess which Ms G is required to pay under 
the policy. In addition to this, Ms G has been left worried and upset at Coveas 
refusal to cover her claim. This caused Ms G worry at a time when she was already, 
and understandably, concerned about her dogs health. And, even though the impact 
caused by Ms Gs dogs health isnt something Covea was responsible for, they are 
responsible for the impact caused by not dealing with Ms Gs claim in a fair manner. I 
feel £50 compensation is reasonable to reflect the impact on Ms G.
 
The premium
I can see Ms G wants a refund of the premium shes paid for the last three years. 
She says she was sent renewal documents by Covea in 2019 which said they dont 
insure pets over eight years old. Ms G says her dog was three years over this limit at 
that point so Covea had been taking premiums from her without informing her about 
this. Our investigator queried this with Covea who explained they do have an age 
limit in their terms and conditions. Ive seen this and note it doesnt apply to pets who 
are under this age limit at the point the policy is first taken out. Covea have said, if a 
policy is first taken out for a pet under the age limit, they would continue to provide 
cover  even if the pet reaches the age limit - as long as the policy is renewed. This 
applies here as the policy was first taken out in September 2016, at which point Ms 
Gs dog was under the age limit. And, Ms G renewed the policy even after her dog 
had reached the age limit. So, I think its reasonable for Covea to have continued to 
take premiums and I wont be asking them to refund these. 
          
In summary, I intend to uphold Ms Gs complaint in this matter on the basis the 
treatment date was in December 2018 which means Covea havent acted fairly in 
declining the claim.
So, subject to any further comments from Ms G or Covea, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint and require Covea to pay the claims with interest and 
£50 compensation. 
Following my provisional decision, Ms G responded to say that Coveas refusal to deal with 
her claims led to her changing insurers. This now means her dog isnt covered. But had 
Covea settled the claims originally then she wouldve remained with them and continued to 
be insured. Covea responded to say they disagree with the provisional decision to uphold the complaint. 
They say the claims were correctly declined and refer to Ms Gs policy which defines 
Treatment and Treatment date. They say treatment is defined as any examination and 
consultation provided by a veterinary practice and not when a vet recommends any further 
investigation. They say the condition was first noted in December 2017 during a consultation 
and where an examination was completed. So, they say its correct for them to take this as 
the treatment date. And, therefore the claims arent valid as they were made more than 12 
months after the treatment date. Covea also say that Ms G chose a time limited insurance 
policy that only covers conditions for a 12 month period, rather than a reinstatement type 
policy that could potentially cover a condition for the life of a pet.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
Although the comments made by Covea have already been largely addressed in my 
provisional decision, I will provide further reasons for upholding the complaint. I note Coveas 
argument about the heart murmur first being identified in December 2017 but I dont think its 
fair in the circumstances of this complaint to take this as the treatment date. There was an 
attendance at the veterinary practice but the examination which took place wasnt specific to 
the heart murmur. It was recorded in the clinical notes but no action taken beyond this. It 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for a policys time limit to apply from the date a condition is 
simply mentioned  but without further action recommended. This would be unfair for 
consumers purchasing such policies, as often there will be conditions which might be noted 
but which a vet might feel doesnt need any form of treatment at that particular time. In such 
cases, there wont be a claim for a consumer to make as no treatment is being 
recommended at that time. So, starting a time limit when nothing active has happened isnt 
fair. And, it would mean consumers lose out on the cover theyve paid for and then falling 
outside of the time limit at a point when they actually do need the cover. That is whats 
happened here. Further action was only recommended in December 2018, so that is when 
the 12 months should start from.  
Ive taken into account Ms Gs comments and, while she was able to find alternative 
insurance, I note she now finds herself in a position where her dog isnt covered for the 
condition. Nothing Ive seen suggests there has been, or will be, further complications which 
might require treatment so Ive only looked at the upset and inconvenience to Ms G arising 
out of Coveas refusal to settle her claim. And, I think £50 is fair and reasonable.            
 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Covea acted unfairly in declining Ms Gs claims so they should 
refund the fees Ms G has paid for both claims together with 8% interest per year simple from 
the date they were paid, until theyre reimbursed. Covea should also pay compensation to Ms G. I feel £50 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the upset and worry caused to Ms G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Covea Insurance plc must:
Refund the fees paid by Ms G for both claims made in June 2019 together with 
simple interest on this amount at the rate of 8% a year* from the date they were paid 
until the date of settlement; and
Pay compensation to Ms G in the sum of £50 for the trouble and upset caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Covea Insurance plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Covea Insurance plc must give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman