DRN-3289835
The complaint
Mrs W complains about a loan from 1Plus1 Loans Limited, (1Plus1), which she says was 
unaffordable. 
What happened
1Plus1 provided Mrs W with a loan of £3,000 on 7 September 2018. The loan was secured 
by a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if Mrs W failed to make her 
repayments. The interest rate was 24.2%, (47.8% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 36 
monthly repayments of £143.84. Mrs W said that the loan was to be used for household 
goods. If Mrs W made each payment when it was due, shed pay £5,178.24 in total. From 
the most recent information Id seen (March 2021), the loan hadnt yet been repaid.
Mrs W said that she had various loans, payday loans and credit cards at the time of the 
application, and her credit rating was poor. She believes that she shouldnt have been given 
this loan as she had a lot of debt and getting another loan would only put her into a worse 
situation than she was already in. 1Plus1 had access to all this information. Mrs Ws mother 
was the guarantor and was retired and couldnt afford the loan if Mrs W couldnt pay. Mrs W 
said she had made all the payments on this loan with a lot of difficulty, because she knew 
her mother wouldnt be able to pay it. 
In its final response letter, 1Plus1 provided details from several phone conversations with 
Mrs W in which shed provided information about her circumstances, income, and expenses. 
Mrs W told 1Plus1 that she was married and had one dependent child. She said that her 
husband paid most of the bills and half of the rent of £500. She paid for her credit 
commitments, her phone, and clothes. Mrs W had five payday loans, two credit cards and a 
mail order account. 1Plus1 said that the expenses information provided by Mrs W was 
compared against statistical information from the Office for National Statistics (ONS). 
1Plus1 said that its systems showed the monthly loan repayment was at an acceptable level 
based on Mrs Ws net monthly income of £1,557 and monthly benefit income of £82. This 
demonstrated that the loan amount and repayments were easily affordable to Mrs W, and 
the checks carried out were reasonable and proportionate for the level of debt and her net 
income at the time the loan was granted. 1Plus1 had also received bank statements from 
Mrs W with her complaint and calculated that these showed a surplus of £262.54. So, it said 
that the loan repayment of £143.84 was affordable.
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He noted that 
1Plus1 had taken some steps to understand Mrs Ws financial situation, but he thought it 
needed to go further on this occasion. Mrs W was already spending more than a third of her 
income on servicing her debts and shed needed to take out short term loans that she was 
still repaying. Hed reviewed Mrs Ws bank statements and didnt think the evidence hed 
reviewed showed that the repayments Mrs W would need to make would be sustainably
affordable for her. Although Mrs W had in the main made her loan repayments, he thought 
that given the amount of income that she was having to spend on repaying her creditors, that 
Mrs W wouldve struggled to make those payments and wouldnt have made them without 
undue difficulty.
.
1Plus1 disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that it had considered Mrs Ws active 
lines of credit and financial responsibility she had to other lenders before it could accept her 
application. 1Plus1 acknowledged that Mrs W may have taken out short term loans albeit her 
credit file indicated she was making regular repayments against these short term loans, 
which wouldnt require it to make further checks/investigations. 1Plus1 noted that the 
investigator had suggested more thorough checks should have been taken out, but that the 
investigator hadnt specified what checks should have been carried out if an applicant had 
taken out previous short term loans. 
1Plus1 also said there was no evidence that Mrs W did struggle to meet the repayments. In 
addition, the lender said that the investigators view focused upon the percentage of Mrs Ws 
income needed to repay her existing creditors. But her credit file demonstrated she was 
making consistent payments to her creditors. It said there was a surplus figure of £262.54, 
which enabled Mrs W to be able to meet the loan repayments.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs W
and to 1Plus1 on 29 December 2021. I summarise my findings:
I said that where information was conflicting or incomplete, I needed to make my decision on 
the balance of probabilities, which was what Id done here.
Id noted that when 1Plus1 lent to Mrs W, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged 1Plus1 to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this 
meant that 1Plus1 needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or 
not a borrower could afford to meet her loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so 1Plus1 had to think about whether Mrs W 
could sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that 
making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mrs W undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 1Plus1 to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on  
Mrs W. And as in this case, where Mrs W had a guarantor who had agreed to meet repayments in 
the event that she couldnt, 1Plus1 was still obliged to assess whether in the first instance 
Mrs W could meet her repayments without undue difficulty.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Ws case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did 1Plus1 complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Ws loan 
application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did 1Plus1 make a fair lending decision? 
Did 1Plus1 complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Ws loan 
application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
As set out above, 1Plus1 gathered some information from Mrs W about her income and  
expenses before it agreed the loan. It spoke to Mrs W on the phone to obtain this 
information. Id listened to recordings of the three calls. 1Plus1 had also carried out a credit 
check. 
Id noted that Mrs W told 1Plus1 that she earned £1,557 net each month and received £82 
child benefit. Mrs W also told 1Plus1 that she was a tenant and that she paid half the rent. 
She also paid £10 on her mobile phone and around £20 per month for clothes. She also said 
that her husband paid for all the bills including food and the car. She paid for her credit 
commitments. 
I couldnt see that 1Plus1 had asked for evidence of Mrs Ws living costs. Id noted that 
1Plus1 said that the information provided by Mrs W matched or exceeded ONS data. But I 
didnt think it could be confident that such data reasonably reflected Mrs Ws situation and 
was appropriate to rely on in this case. Bearing all this in mind, I thought it would have been 
proportionate for 1Plus1 to have taken steps to verify Mrs Ws actual expenditure in line with 
CONC 5.3.1(4) instead of choosing to rely on a potentially inaccurate comparison with ONS 
data.
CONC 5.3.1(4) said:
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment or its 
assessment required under CONC 5.2.2R (1):
1. (a) 
the firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it 
is reasonably foreseeable that it would differ from actual current income or expenditure 
over the anticipated repayment period of the agreement;2. (b) 
it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of 
the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by 
the customer;
So, I thought in Mrs Ws circumstances, it would have been proportionate for 1Plus1 to have 
verified her actual expenditure. 
1Plus1 calculated that Mrs W would have a monthly surplus income of around £383 before 
the loan. So, it said that the loan repayment of £143.84 was affordable. But 1Plus1 was 
required to establish whether Mrs W could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
The lender had also provided this Service with a summary of Mrs Ws credit commitments 
from its credit checks. The investigator asked 1Plus1 for its actual checks, but the lender 
referred the investigator to the summary it had already provided. This didnt show either the 
dates the credit was taken out, the original loan amounts or the credit limits for the credit 
cards. 
1Plus1s summary of Mrs Ws credit commitments showed that Mrs W had five payday 
loans, two credit cards, a mail order account, a pay as you go communications contract and 
a further loan with no balance shown but a reference to a monthly payment of £70. 1Plus1 
totalled Mrs Ws monthly credit commitments to be £586.
The summary showed payment records for some of the credit. But as there were no 
payment records for three of the loans, one months payment record for one loan and three 
months payment record for Mrs Ws largest loan, I thought it might be the case that Mrs W 
had a recent need for credit. I also didnt know whether the card balances were near their 
respective credit limits which might also have indicated that Mrs W had financial pressures. 
It didnt appear from the phone calls that 1Plus1 had any concerns about the payday loans 
Mrs W had taken out and I didnt hear it ask her on any of the calls for the reason for the 
loans. I could also see that the credit checks showed that Mrs W had missed one payment 
on a mail order account around three months prior to her loan application. 
I thought 1Plus1 was likely to be aware that its credit checks might not have revealed the full 
extent of Mrs Ws credit commitments. A lender might only see a small portion of a 
borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Its checks might not 
necessarily be up to date. Also, not all lenders reported to the same credit reference 
agencies.
Id said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. Altogether I thought the five payday 
loans should have put the lender on notice that Mrs W was likely struggling to manage her 
money. And I thought they might also have reasonably caused doubt on the accuracy of the 
expenditure information Mrs W provided. 
On balance, I wasnt satisfied that 1Plus1s checks went far enough. Mrs W was entering 
into a relatively long and expensive loan agreement. The loan was running for 36 months 
and Mrs W was committing to repay £5,178.24 over that period. The loan wasnt being used 
for debt consolidation. Given the length of time Mrs W was committing to repay the credit 
and what 1Plus1 would have likely seen on its credit checks, I didnt think its checks were 
sufficient for 1Plus1 to get a clear picture of Mrs Ws finances at the time. 1Plus1 was required to establish whether Mrs W could make her loan repayments without 
being caused undue difficulty or adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the 
loan repayments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It 
could have done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mrs W, asking for 
copies of payslips, bills and/or receipts for her expenses and by asking her for more 
information about her existing credit commitments. I couldnt see that 1Plus1 took steps to 
do this. So overall, I didnt think the checks 1Plus1 carried out on this occasion were 
reasonable and proportionate. 
But that in itself didn't mean that Mrs Ws complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have likely shown 
1Plus1 that Mrs W couldn't sustainably afford the loan. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did 1Plus1 make a fair 
lending decision? 
Id looked at the bank statements which Mrs W had supplied to 1Plus1 with her complaint to 
see what better checks would have shown 1Plus1. Id also looked at the records for another 
of Mrs Ws complaints with this Service.
I wasnt suggesting that reviewing Mrs Ws bank statements were the checks that 1Plus1 
should have done at the time of the loan application. But I thought looking at these gave me 
the best picture of what the lender was likely to have seen had it made better checks. Had it 
sought some verification of Mrs Ws spending before lending, I thought 1Plus1 wouldve 
been in a better position to understand Mrs Ws financial situation before it decided to lend to 
her. 
The bank statements covered the period 16 June 2018 to 1 August 2018. So, they only 
covered one complete month  July 2018. Id reviewed Mrs Ws transactions for that month. 
But Id noted there were ten days at the end of June 2018 before Mrs W received her salary, 
when she had less than £10 in her account. Shed received £20 from her husband and £10 
from another source during this period to supplement her income. Id noted a similar 
situation at the end of July 2018. I thought this ought to have caused some concerns about 
Mrs Ws finances. It also appeared that Mrs W had no overdraft arrangement. 
I could see from the bank statements that Mrs Ws net monthly salary was broadly around 
the amount shed declared to 1Plus1 at around £1,577. Id also noted that she received child 
benefit of around £82. I could also see that Mrs W was paying for most living costs from her 
account although her husband provided her with several lump sums which appeared to 
cover those living costs. But I couldnt see payments designated for rent or council tax. 
More worryingly, Mrs Ws spending on her credit commitments appeared to total more than 
90% of her monthly salary. There were two payments totalling over £500 paid to a lender 
shown on 1Plus1s credit summary as having a zero balance with monthly payments of £70. 
Most of the other payments were for amounts larger than those shown on the credit 
summary. And during this period Mrs W received two payday loans totalling £1,950. As     
Mrs W was borrowing a significant amount of short term credit to fund her existing 
expenditure and credit commitments, I thought this suggested that Mrs W was having 
significant difficulties managing her money. 
Id also noted from another of Mrs Ws complaints at this Service that she had taken out 
three high cost credit loans totalling £1,900 within ten months of her application to 1Plus1 
which were all still outstanding at the time of her application.So, if 1Plus1 had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, I thought it was 
likely it would have discovered that Mrs W was over committed financially. And I thought that 
further checks wouldnt have provided any reassurance to 1Plus1 that Mrs W would have 
managed her repayments sustainably or that the loan was suitable for her. It seemed to me 
there was a risk here that Mrs W would need to borrow to meet her repayments on this loan, 
as she was currently doing so for her existing costs. And so, I thought the lender was 
irresponsible to have agreed to lend to her on this occasion.
Id noted that 1Plus1 had said that its records indicated Mrs W had consistently repaid the 
monthly instalment of £143.84, and that this signified that she was able to afford to repay 
the loan, without financial difficulty. But I could see that Mrs Ws loan statement showed 
one returned payment. And I didnt think that making the loan repayments necessarily 
meant that the loan repayments were repaid without Mrs W being caused undue difficulty or 
adverse consequences.  
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt think 1Plus1 had acted fairly when it provided the 
loan to Mrs W and subject to any further representations by Mrs W or 1Plus1, I intended to 
uphold Mrs Ws complaint and say that 1Plus1 should put things right as shown below.
Putting things right  what 1Plus1 needs to do
To settle Mrs Ws complaint 1Plus1 should do the following:
1.Add up the total amount of money Mrs W received as a result of having been
given this loan. The repayments Mrs W made should be deducted from this
amount.
a) If this results in Mrs W having paid more than she received, then any
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the
date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then 1Plus1 should attempt to
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs W.
2.Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file regarding this
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to take off tax from this interest. 1Plus1
must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for
one.
Mrs W responded to my provisional decision to say that she had no further information to 
add to the complaint.
1Plus1 disagreed with my provisional decision and raised a number of issues. I list below its 
main points:-
1. It noted that Id said that it should have requested evidence of payslips/bills or 
receipts for Mrs Ws expenses and that it would have likely been aware that the 
credit checks undertaken might not have revealed Mrs Ws full commitments. It 
said that it could only extract credit information from the source available to it at 
the time of loan inception. It asked for clarification as to how it could verify this 
information and what exact checks should have been carried out at the relevant 
time?
 
2. It said that the credit check and history of payment for Mrs Ws credit 
commitments evidenced that she was regularly committing to her repayments. 
This was an indication that she could afford to do so.  There was no indication to suggest that despite the history of payday loans, Mrs W struggled to repay them 
and was in financial difficulty.
 
3. It obtained Mrs Ws bank statements when assessing her complaint to see that if 
it had obtained them at loan inception, it would have declined her application. It 
said that Mrs Ws income was the same as the amount shed declared at loan 
inception and was verified at the time of her application. With regards to essential 
expenditure, it accounted for her 50% share of the rent and council tax in any 
event and still calculated the surplus figure to be £262.54. It said that Mrs Ws 
husband was jointly and severally liable for the rent and was sending money to 
cover living costs. Whilst the larger payments I had referred to didnt reflect the 
credit identified on Mrs Ws credit file, all credit commitments were factored in to 
re-assess the ability as reflected within the bank statements, and the surplus 
figure provided was still £262.54. Taking into account that Mrs Ws credit was 
being managed well, this did not cause concern or lead it to conclude the loan 
was unaffordable and should not have been provided to Mrs W.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
I have considered 1Plus1s response to my provisional findings. I appreciate that this will be 
very disappointing for it, but I am still of the view that it was irresponsible for it to have 
agreed the loan for Mrs W. I explained my reasons in my provisional decision and Ive also 
responded to its main points in response to my provisional decision below. Ive used the 
same numbering as above.
1.  As Id said above, 1Plus1 was required to establish whether Mrs W could make her loan 
repayments without being caused undue difficulty or adverse consequences and not just to 
ascertain whether the loan repayments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. It could have done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from 
Mrs W, asking for copies of payslips, bills and/or receipts for her expenses and by asking her 
for more information about her existing credit commitments. I wasnt suggesting that 1Plus1 
obtain numerous credit reports. 
In Mrs Ws circumstances, I dont think 1Plus1 could be satisfied from the information it had 
seen that it could safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Mrs W. I 
think 1Plus1 should have realised that it wasnt reasonable to base its lending decision on 
that information. And I consider the information 1Plus1 Loans had about Mrs Ws financial 
situation should have prompted it to take steps to independently verify the true state of     
Mrs Ws finances. It could have done this, for example, by one of the methods set out above.
2.1Plus1 said that the credit check and history of payment for Mrs Ws credit commitments 
evidenced that she was regularly committing to her repayments, and this was an indication 
that she could afford to do so.  But I can see that 1Plus1s credit checks provided a limited 
credit history. There were no payment records for three of the loans (which might all have 
been recently taken out), one months payment record for one loan and three months 
payment record for Mrs Ws largest loan. In addition, the credit checks contained no 
information as to the original amount of credit and when Mrs W had taken credit out. Nor 
was there any information as to the credit limits on Mrs Ws credit cards and mail order 
account. 1Plus1 was also aware that Mrs W had around five active payday loans which I think might 
have been concerning and cast doubt on the monthly disposable income of £383 it had 
calculated. Altogether I thought the five payday loans should have put the lender on notice 
that Mrs W was likely struggling to manage her money. So, I dont think 1Plus1 could safely 
conclude from its credit checks that Mrs Ws credit repayments were sustainable. 
1Plus1 also said that there was no indication to suggest that despite the history of payday 
loans, Mrs W struggled to repay them and was in financial difficulty. But I think Mrs Ws need 
to borrow payday loans to supplement her income ought to have caused concerns. I think 
this credit history strongly suggested that Mrs Ws finances were under significant stress and 
that the reality of her situation was that 1Plus1s loan wouldnt be sustainable for her.
3.1Plus1 had reviewed the bank statements it had received with Mrs Ws complaint and 
calculated that she had a monthly disposable income of £262.54 which I note was lower than 
the monthly disposable income of £383 it had calculated at the time of the loan application. 
Ive again reviewed the bank statement Mrs W provided to 1Plus1 with her complaint. I can 
see that for the month of July 2018, Mrs Ws partner had paid into Mrs Ws account an 
amount which appeared to cover the living costs she paid for. I can also see that Mrs W 
withdrew cash of £250 in early July 2018 which might have been used to pay her half of the 
rent. Ive calculated that this amount together with the amount she spent on credit 
commitments left a disposable income of around £175 to pay 1Plus1s monthly loan 
repayment of £143.84. This would have left her with only around £32 which I think might 
have caused 1Plus1 significant concerns. I think there was a very foreseeable risk here that  
Mrs W wouldnt have been able to meet her repayments over 36 months without difficulty. It 
wouldnt have taken very much unexpected or seasonal expense to leave Mrs W in the 
position of having to borrow to meet her loan repayments, especially as she had one 
dependent. So, I think Mrs W would have needed a larger disposable income for the loan to 
be sustainable, and I dont agree with 1Plus1 that the loan was affordable.
I also note that the disposable income Id calculated from the bank statement was likely to be 
substantially less as Mrs W had borrowed two payday loans totalling £1,950 in July 2018 
which would also require repayment going forward. 
In any event , 1Plus1s regulatory obligations meant it needed to consider not just the 
pounds and pence affordability, but the sustainability of the loan repayments. This is set out 
in CONC 5.3.1(G) which, amongst other things, said: 
(6) For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer: (a) without undue difficulties, in particular: 
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and (ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments; 
And in the circumstances of this case I think better checks would have shown this to be 
unlikely.
I want to reassure the parties that I have thought carefully about everything again but for the 
reasons set out above, I see no reason to alter my provisional conclusions. It follows that I 
uphold Mrs Ws complaint and require 1Plus1 to put things right as set out above under the 
heading Putting things right  what 1Plus1 needs to do.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order 1Plus1 Loans Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading 
Putting things right  what 1Plus1 needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman