DRN-3775199
The complaint
Mr M has complained that he didnt receive annual (or other) reviews of the pension plan he 
has with St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP). He thinks that SJP should have 
provided these, and as it didnt do this, it isnt acting fairly, or within the regulators rules and 
guidance. 
What happened
Mr M has a pension plan with SJP. This was opened in 2016 when a family member of 
Mr Ms, that worked for SJP, advised him to do this. 
Mr Ms family member subsequently left SJP. In 2018 this family member asked SJP if he 
could continue to have a business relationship with his family members. He emailed SJP 
and said that:  
I will not be looking to interfere with any of the existing arrangements but would like to 
have the opportunity to continue business relationships with the above and where necessary 
I will request from you through the correct channels any information that may be required I 
hope this will be ok with you and if not please let me know. In the circumstances, it would be 
helpful if you could confirm. 
SJP agreed to this.
 
Mr M has made his complaint to SJP. SJP didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it was 
agreed that Mr M would have contact with his family member, as above. 
SJP went on to say that it had assisted Mr M on various occasions, for example to withdraw 
funds in 2019 when Mr M contacted it to say that he was retiring. It offered to review Mr Ms 
situation at this time. And SJP did review Mr Ms circumstances in 2020. But it said that, in 
the main, Mr M had not taken up the reviews that it had offered him.
It also says that it had provided any information Mr M requested, for example, information 
about the pension plan charges. That said, SJP says it understood at the time that his main 
point of contact would be Mr Ms family member.
SJP did offer to waive an early withdrawal charge on Mr Ms policy if he wanted to leave, or it 
said it could allocate him another adviser. I understand Mr M didnt accept either of these as 
resolutions to his complaint. 
Mr M says, in response to SJPs consideration of his complaint that whilst there was some 
contact, and basic reviews took place, this was at his instigation and they werent the full 
reviews he should have received. He thinks he should receive back the charges he paid in 
2018, 2019 and 2020. 
As Mr M wasnt happy with how SJP had looked at his complaint he brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our Investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think that it should succeed. 
After considering the correspondence he thought it was reasonable for SJP to have thought 
that Mr M would continue to receive advice elsewhere. And he couldve contacted it at any 
point if he needed advice, or administration of his policy, which he did at times. 
And in some later correspondence he noted that it had been agreed that SJP would not 
charge an advice free from 2022 onwards. But he said this wasnt evidence that SJP had not 
provided a service, and advice, in the past. He reiterated the contact, offers of contact, and 
advice Mr M had received. 
Mr M didnt agree with what our Investigator said. He said that:
SJP hadnt failed just to provide annual reviews, there had been very little contact at 
all. SJP hadnt provided an acceptable level of service. 
He wasnt offered annual reviews in 2018 and 2019 and he wouldnt have been 
offered a review in 2020 if he had not contacted SJP to take tax free cash from his 
plan. 
It wasnt right for SJP to have assumed that Mr Ms family member would continue to 
advise him, it should have confirmed this with him. Mr Ms family member did not 
contact SJP to request information. 
Even though SJP failed to provide annual reviews it still took charges from the 
pension plan. 
He should have been informed at an earlier time that he could have the advice 
charge removed from the account. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has essentially said that he hasnt been provided with a good service. He hasnt had a 
lot of contact from SJP, and he thinks it should have been more proactive about finding out 
his needs. 
On the other hand, SJP thinks that Mr M left SJP with an understanding that he would 
primarily be given advice from his family member. It thinks it has supported this and says it 
has provided advice and information over the time complained about. It has provided 
reviews on a number of occasions, up to the point where Mr M asked for the advice fee not 
to be taken from the plan from 2022 onwards. 
In deciding this complaint Ive firstly thought about the contact in 2018 from Mr Ms family 
member. This situation seems to me to be a little bit unusual. The email I referred to above, 
which was sent when Mr Ms family member was leaving SJP, says that the pension should 
remain the same but that the family member would still like to have a business relationship 
with Mr M. 
This does indicate that Mr M would be taking advice from his family member, but its not 
explicit about what the relationship between all three parties would be going forward in 
respect of Mr Ms pension planning. Ive not seen a clear instruction from Mr M about what 
he wanted his future relationship with SJP to be until he said that he didnt want advice from 
it in 2022. Ive not seen for example, a change of agency form or similar that Mr M 
completed. And this is further clouded by the fact that Mr M has contacted SJP on a number of 
occasions and he has received advice and reviews. In fact, the email from Mr Ms family 
member seems to indicate that he, or Mr M, would contact SJP for information or advice on 
an ad hoc basis, and this is what seems to have taken place. 
I dont think SJP should have been expected to proactively find out if Mr M wanted the 
relationship to be on a different basis, it was entitled to rely on the communications it had 
received about this, and that fact that Mr M doesnt seem to have raised this until he made 
the complaint. 
I can accept that is not an entirely usual way for advice to be given. But SJP has provided a 
service to Mr M and this has included advice. In the absence of any clear statement or 
indication of what Mr M wanted to be different at the time, I dont think its unreasonable that 
it did this. And so, I think its reasonable that SJP has charged the fees that it did. 
And if follows that I dont think SJP should have stopped taking the advice fees any earlier 
than it did in 2022. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman