DRN-2791540
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that BMO Asset Management Limited trading as BMO Global Asset 
Management sold an investment without his consent.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr D found out that BMO had sold some shares without any notice or 
consent.
BMO said they wrote to Mr D a few months earlier letting him know about changes being 
made to some share classes in his investment which meant that, because of the size of his 
shareholding, he needed some action. Because they didnt hear from Mr D they sold his 
shares as the letter they sent said they would. Mr D says he never received the letter and so 
brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. They were persuaded that BMO had 
sent the letter, and also that even if Mr D had received the letter he would most likely have 
sold the shares anyway. Mr D disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear how strongly Mr D feels about what happened and I want to assure him that Ive 
read and considered everything he has submitted. If I dont raise a particular point its not 
because I havent read the information; I have. Ive summarised what happened which 
reflects the informal nature of this service. 
Mr D says he didnt receive the letter and Ive no reason to doubt thats the case. The matter 
for me to decide is whether Im persuaded BMO sent the letter. This is an important 
distinction. 
Looking at the evidence Im satisfied that BMO did send the letter to Mr D in early July 2020. 
Theyve provided a copy of the letter as well as persuasive system records. This doesnt 
mean I doubt Mr D when he says he didnt receive the letter, but I cant hold BMO 
responsible for any possible problems with delivering post. Also the vast majority of post is 
delivered as addressed and I havent see that Mr D was affected by any postal problems. By 
sending the letter BMO have fulfilled their duties and done what I would expect. 
Having looked at the letter Im happy it makes clear what would happen to the shares in 
September; they would be sold as the holding was below the minimum value required. And 
this is what happened.
When our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint they thought it most likely that even if he 
did receive the letter the shares wouldve been sold. Mr D strongly disagreed with this and 
said he wouldve increased his holdings. Im happy to believe Mr D when he says this, 
however it doesnt affect my overall decision. The main issue here is whether I think BMO 
sent the letter; and Im persuaded they did. So I dont think theres any need to make a 
finding, in this particular set of circumstances, about what Mr D mightve done.  
When looking into what happened BMO gave Mr D an incorrect date for the letter. They 
initially said it was sent in June 2020, when it was actually sent in July 2020. I can see why 
this mistake was frustrating for Mr D and perhaps called into question all the actions of BMO 
and the reliability of their evidence. But looking at everything I think this was a genuine 
mistake and Im satisfied the evidence from BMO is reliable. 
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied that BMO sent the letter and acted fairly 
and reasonably when selling the shares. Thats not to say that Mr D hasnt been affected by 
what happened; he clearly has. However I cant hold BMO responsible for any postal 
problems which meant Mr D didnt receive the letter. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman