DRN-3401242
The complaint
This complaint is about two late payment markers Mr M says Aldermore Bank Plc 
(Aldermore) incorrectly reported to credit reference agencies about his buy-to-let mortgage 
account.
What happened
Mr M has a direct debit set up to make his contractual monthly payments (CMPs) on his 
buy-to-let mortgage. The direct debit is taken on 22nd of every month, but in November 2021 
and December 2021, Mr Ms direct debits were returned unpaid.
Mr M later discovered that Aldermore had reported both late payments to credit reference 
agencies and that late payment markers had been placed on his credit file. 
Mr M complained that he didnt think this was fair. He says that if his direct debit had been 
set up for an earlier day in the month, the payment would have been re-presented within the 
same calendar month and the missed payments would not have been reported. He believes 
this means hes being treated differently to other customers. 
Mr M says hes since been told all payments are meant to come out on the 1st of every 
month. But as his direct debit was set up for 22nd, he doesnt think he should be penalised 
for being late by only 14 days. He says the terms and conditions didnt say that this would be 
reported to credit reference agencies. And as hes intending to apply for refinancing, hes 
concerned the late payment markers will affect the interest rates hes offered.  
Aldermore investigated Mr Ms complaint but found that it had correctly reported the late 
payments. 
As Mr M remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
reviewed Mr Ms complaint points, but they didnt think Aldermore had done anything wrong. 
Mr M disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
Aldermore wrote to Mr M on 23 November 2021 to inform him his direct debit had been 
returned unpaid. The letter confirmed that if his direct debit re-presentation is set for the 
following calendar month to when the original payment was due, this would affect his credit 
file. It also said that to prevent this he could make a bank transfer and in this case they 
would cancel the re-presentation. It went on to warn Mr M that the payments must be 
received in the calendar month that the original payment was due. 
Mr M didnt make a bank transfer within the calendar month, so November 2021s missed 
payment was re-presented and paid on 7 December 2021. I understand Mr Ms 
December 2021 direct debit was also returned unpaid and was not paid until 6 January 2022 
when he made a manual payment. 
While Mr M feels his credit file shouldnt be impacted on given the payments were both 
made within 14 days of the due date, CMPs must be paid within the month the payment is 
due. This is normal industry practice for CMPs. 
I empathize with Mr M that the funds he was expecting into his account were coming from 
abroad and were unfortunately delayed. But, ultimately, its Mr Ms responsibility to ensure 
his CMPs are made on time and so he needs to make sure his payments are cleared on his 
mortgage account before the end of each month. To prevent this from happening again, 
Mr M may wish to amend his direct debit so that it falls more than 14 days before the end of 
each calendar month.
While I understand Mr M feels the impact on his credit file is unfair, Aldermore has a duty to 
report late payments to the credit reference agencies it participates with. The terms and 
conditions of his account explain that the payment date is the 1st of every month and the 
CMP must be made within that month. So, while the payment may be made later on in the 
month its due, the clock in terms of the payment being late, starts on the 1st of the month. 
That means, both of Mr Ms payments were made more than 28 days later than they should 
have been.
I dont agree that this means Aldermores treating him differently to other customers. 
Customers decide themselves when they want their payments to be taken, so it would have 
been Mr Ms choice to arrange his direct debit for the 22nd of every month and had the funds 
been available at these times, he would not have missed any payments.
So, looking back at the main complaint points, while I understand Mr Ms frustration, 
November 2021s CMP wasnt received by Aldermore until December 2021. And 
December 2021s CMP wasnt received until January 2021. This means both payments were 
late. Aldermore informed Mr M about this immediately, so Mr M could have made the 
payments by alternative means within the calendar month. As Mr M did not do this, 
Aldermore is expected to report the late payments to credit reference agencies and I cant 
ask it to have the markers removed. 
That means, I dont think Aldermore needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman