DRN-3994912
The complaint
Miss B complained that U K Insurance Limited cancelled her motor insurance policy.
What happened
UKI increased Miss B s premium after they discovered that shed had an accident she 
hadnt told them about. If theyd known about it when shed taken out the policy her premium 
would have been higher from then. When Miss B didnt pay the additional one-off premium 
UKI cancelled her policy. 
Miss B said she hadnt understood why UKI charged the additional premium as they hadnt 
communicated the reason properly. If they, had she would have paid it. She thought that UKI 
were penalising her for not telling them about that accident. So she didnt pay it as she didnt 
think that was fair. She had some other service complaints too.
She complained to UKI who offered her £125 compensation. Miss B  didnt think this was 
enough. She said that as a result of UKIs cancellation she now couldnt obtain alternative 
affordable insurance and was still paying for a car that she couldnt drive. She wanted UKI to 
give her a second chance to pay the right premium, correct her insurance record and clear 
her reputation. 
The investigator complained that the complaint be partly upheld. She thought that UKIs 
communication with Miss B could have been better. So they should pay her an additional 
£100 in compensation for this. However they were not unfair to charge the additional 
premium or to cancel the policy when Miss B  didnt pay it. UKI agreed to this, but Miss B  
didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss B  took out the policy over the phone UKIs agent asked for details of any 
accidents in the last five years. Miss B mentioned one but said she couldnt remember all of 
them so UKIs agent said she would check. UKIs instant check discovered some accidents 
and claims while Miss B had held polices from insurers in UKIs group. But when UKI later 
checked against the nationwide insurance databases they discovered that Miss B had 
another accident too. If UKI had known about that, Miss Bs premium would have been 
higher from the start. So they increased it by about £112 because of this. This was a one-off 
additional premium.  
In increasing her premium UKI werent blaming or punishing Miss B for not telling them 
about all of her accidents. They were entitled to the extra premium because of her accident 
and claims history. And it did still remain Miss B s responsibility for telling UKI about those, 
even if UKI were able to find out about some of her accidents and claims when she took out 
the policy.  
Unfortunately UKI had Miss B s address wrong so had sent her policy documents and their 
non -payment of premium warning letter of 29 September to that wrong address. So Miss B  
didnt receive it. However when UKI discovered this they resent the letter on 12 October to 
the correct address. That letter required payment by 26 October but Miss B didnt pay it, so 
UKI cancelled her policy. 
I can see that this has been distressing for Miss B and not being able to afford new car 
insurance has caused her difficulty in getting her grandchildren around by public transport . 
She feels that UKI cancelling her policy has tarnished her reputation and it wasnt her fault.
UKI have accepted and apologised for getting her address wrong, and at first sending 
correspondence to her neighbours address. UKI have also apologised for diverting her call 
to another insurer in their corporate group that Miss B no longer wanted to deal with. She 
was also annoyed that UKI didnt tell her about their connection with that insurer , as if shed 
known she wouldnt have dealt with UKI at all. But I dont think UKI were under an obligation 
to tell Miss B when she took out the policy that they were part of that same insurer group, 
even if they had known of her dislike of the other insurer. As the investigator has explained, 
UKI and the other insurer are separate companies with different policies. 
UKI have already offered her £125 in compensation, but I agree with the investigator that an 
additional £100 does better compensate Miss B for the effect UKIs service errors had on 
her. This £100 is in addition to what UKI say they have already paid Miss B, making the total 
compensation £225. Miss B said UKIs £125 cheque bounced. I expect UKI to check what 
has happened there and to reissue her the £125 too if she hasnt already cashed it.   
The investigator thought that UKI could have done more to explain the importance of Miss B  
making sure all information about accidents and claims was provided . I think it would also 
have helped if they had better explained that they werent blaming her and charging her the 
extra premium because she didnt disclose it. Instead they were charging it because of the 
effect the accident had on their risk assessment and premium pricing. 
Nevertheless UKI were entitled to the one-off premium, theyd told her that and gave her a 
reasonable time to pay it. UKIs complaint agents email of 26 October also reaffirmed the 
need for payment that day to avoid cancellation. And UKI had advised her on call when she 
took out the policy that non-payment could cause them to cancel her insurance. Given that, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for UKI to cancel when they did. And for that reason I 
dont require them to do any more in that regard. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Miss B an additional payment £100 in compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience.
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Miss B  
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
