DRN-4343345
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a new car, and about the service he received when he 
ordered it through a hire agreement with U.K. Carline Limited (UKCL). 
What happened
In March 2023, Mr G entered into a hire agreement with UKCL for a new car. The agreement 
was over 36 months with an initial rental of £958.29.
Mr G complained to UKCL in April 2023 about the processing and delivery of his lease 
vehicle. Mr G said its been inconvenient, stressful and has seen him lose out financially.
From Mr Gs complaint correspondence to UKCL, dated 24 April 2023, Ive summarised Mr 
Gs main complaint points below:
-He was led to believe the vehicle had to be delivered by the end of March 2023
-The delivery date was delayed with the car being delivered on 21 April 2023
-He incurred a financial penalty for terminating his existing finance agreement 
-The car was muddy with scratches to the console and a scuff on the drivers door
On 22 June 2023 UKCL issued their final response to Mr Gs complaint which they didnt 
uphold. UKCL said they kept Mr G informed throughout the delivery process, provided a 
courtesy car whilst Mr G was waiting for his new car, delivered the car as soon as possible 
after it had been fixed and offered a fair resolution to the condition the car arrived in.  
Unhappy with their response Mr G brought his complaint to our service for investigation.
Having reviewed the information on file, one of our investigators recommended that Mr Gs 
complaint should not be upheld. The investigator wasnt persuaded there was sufficient 
evidence of any misrepresentation or breach of contract. They didnt think UKCL were at 
fault for the delays, and believed they offered a fair resolution for the condition the car was in 
when it arrived.
Mr G responded to say he felt UKCLs actions were unethical. He raised concerns about the 
way in which UKCL handled his complaint, and believed he should receive a monetary value 
for the valet of his car as it was UKCLs responsibility to follow through on their offer to clean 
it.
However, as our investigators view remained unchanged, Mr G asked that his complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire agreement. As such, this service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. UKCL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
Mr G complains about a few different issues, so Ive addressed each one separately below:
misled or forced into the hire agreement  
Mr G said he entered into the finance agreement on the stipulation that the vehicle had to be 
delivered by March 2023. He said he believed the conditions of delivery was misrepresented 
to him. Mr G said the information he was given by the dealership that the car had to be 
delivered by March 2023 was false. And that it was this information that led him to enter into 
the agreement. 
In considering whether there was a misrepresentation of the car at the point of supply, Ive 
considered whether theres been a false statement of fact and if the false statement of fact 
would have induced Mr G to buy the car. Based on the evidence I have from both parties; it 
seems unlikely that a false statement of fact was made, so Im not persuaded the car was 
misrepresented.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that in certain situations, finance 
providers are liable for what is said by a supplier before the consumer takes out a credit 
agreement. So, if the dealer incorrectly told Mr G something about the car prior to the supply 
of it, its taken as if UKCL told Mr G the same.
Having considered this, I havent seen any information that contradicts the requirement for 
the vehicle to be delivered in March 2023. In the email trail provided by Mr G, in response to 
Mr Gs query about the condition being that the car had to be delivered in March, the 
dealership says: My understanding is that it was a stipulation of the deal set by the finance 
company.
Having thought about this, I dont think its reasonable to conclude that the email provided a 
false statement of fact. In it, I think its reasonable to say the dealership were confirming their 
understanding of something. In addition, Ive seen no evidence that this information forced or 
induced Mr G to enter into the agreement. For example, further emails or communications 
from the supplier or from UKCL coercing Mr G into signing and accepting the agreement by 
a specific date. So, Im satisfied from the information on file that UKCL didnt misrepresent 
the agreement to Mr G. 
As Ive concluded that UKCL didnt mis represent the agreement, it follows that I dont think 
they need to take any action in relation to any penalties or fees Mr G may have had to pay to 
settle his existing agreement.
                    
DelaysFrom the information provided I can see that the car was initially set to be delivered on 27 
March 2023. I can see that the supplier incurred delays which prevented it from being 
delivered on that date. I havent seen any evidence that shows UKCL were at fault here. 
however, I have seen that Mr G was kept informed, for example, as described in the timeline 
of events provided by UKCL.
A delivery date was rescheduled for 4 April 2023, however the car broke down and had to be 
repaired. I can see that it was fixed and redelivered just over two weeks later on 21 April 
2023. I recognise the changes to the delivery date would have been inconvenient and 
frustrating for Mr G, however, I havent seen any evidence that any of the delays to the 
delivery was a result of errors or the actions of UKCL.                      
The information on file shows that Mr G was provided with a courtesy car where possible 
and kept informed about the delivery date changes. 
In addition to this, the terms of the agreement says Delivery dates are subject to change by 
the manufacturer, and UK Carline Ltd has no control or influence over manufacturer lead 
times and will not accept any responsibility for any losses or inconvenience caused because 
of a delay by the manufacturer.
And the order form which Mr G signed, says: U.K. Carline Limited will do its best to deliver 
your vehicle on the estimated delivery date, but this is subject to delivery agents, 
manufacturers, and factors too remote for U.K. Carline limited to control.
All things considered, I think UKCL acted fairly throughout this process and so Im not 
persuaded that they were at fault for the delays, or treated Mr G unfairly when they did 
occur.
condition of the car 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
Mr G says when the car was delivered it was muddy in the footwells, had a scuff on the door 
and scratches on the console. Mr G provided images to UKCL showing the vehicles 
condition. Ive considered from what Mr G has said here, is that hes unhappy with the 
condition or quality of the vehicle.
In an email from UKCL, they believed having seen the images, that the marks were able to 
be removed through cleaning, and offered to valet the car. I acknowledge Mr G said they 
didnt follow-up on their offer, however, I think it would have been reasonable for Mr G to 
instigate this action. The offer to valet was confirmed, and the state of the car (being muddy) 
was a pending and immediate requirement. I dont think it was reasonable to wait for further 
contact from UKCL before deciding to take the necessary action to have the vehicle cleaned.
I acknowledge Mr G said the scratches and scuff didnt come out after the car was cleaned. I 
havent seen that Mr G has provided evidence of any lasting damage, following a clean of the vehicle. I think it would have been reasonable for Mr G to demonstrate that any damage 
still remained, for example by providing updated images to UKCL so they could take the 
necessary action to look into it. 
All things considered; I dont think itd be fair to instruct UKCL to pay for repairs for damage 
that hasnt been confirmed. From the information provided, although I acknowledge the car 
was muddy when it was delivered, Im satisfied UKCL have fairly addressed this. Im also 
persuaded, in the specific circumstances of this case, that the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr G.
Based on all the above, UKCL are not responsible for the delays that occurred, Im satisfied 
theyve offered a fair resolution to address the poor state of the car. Ive also not seen any 
evidence that the car was of unsatisfactory quality or that the agreement was mis 
represented. So, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require UKCL to take any further 
action in respect if this complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against U.K. Carline Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman