DRN-2207603
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them life and 
critical illness policies alongside their mortgage lending in 2012. 
To resolve their complaint, they want to have the premiums they have paid returned to them, 
with interest.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision to the parties on 4 September 2020. In that decision, I 
proposed to uphold the complaint, subject to any further evidence or comments I may 
receive. A copy of the findings set out in that decision is provided in italics below.
I have reached a different outcome to our investigator. I believe this complaint ought to 
succeed. Ill explain why below.  
Though I realise Mrs and Mr H feel strongly about the sale of the policies in 2012, I do not 
consider that the evidence shows they were forced into taking them out. I am mindful of what 
they can recall but there is no record of what was actually said at the meeting. And 
unfortunately there are very limited records that exist from the time of the sale. Where the is 
an absence of contemporaneous evidence from the time of a sale, I will look at the 
information which is available, and weigh that up with the accounts of both parties.  
Halifax has explained that protection policies were not and have never been a condition of 
mortgage lending.  The only insurance required as a condition of the mortgage was buildings 
cover. 
I can see that the insurer sent a cancellation notice to Mr and Mr H. Once their additional 
mortgage lending was secured, they could have cancelled the policies, if they did not wish to 
proceed with them. 
On balance, I believe it was more likely that a recommendation was made by the Halifax 
adviser in 2012, and Mrs and Mr H were free to reject it; if not at the meeting where they say 
they felt unduly pressured, they still could have cancelled the applications after the insurance 
company (which was a different business) had sent them the documentation including the 
right to cancel without charge.  
Nonetheless, I dont believe the advisers recommendation was suitable in the 
circumstances.  
Considering insurance for the event of ill health or death is a reasonable approach. In return 
for continued payments of a monthly premium over the policy term, a policy of this nature will 
provide a lump sum payment (the sum assured) which, in the case of decreasing cover, 
should broadly match that of the outstanding capital repayment mortgage should either Mrs 
H or Mr H have passed away or become terminally ill. And in Mrs Hs case, the critical illness 
policy provided a smaller lump sum if she developed one of the critical illnesses listed in her 
policy terms. 
Having that type of insurance when taking on a mortgage debt is ordinarily a prudent step to 
take. A payment in the circumstances that Mrs H or Mr H fell ill or passed away would have 
ensured enough funds for either themselves or their family were available to clear the 
outstanding mortgage debt or provide a lump sum to assist them at a difficult time. 
However, Mrs and Mr H held three term assurance policies between them. In 2010, each of 
them had taken out a life assurance policy (in Ireland), offering them level cover to 2030 and 
2035 respectively. Each policy had a level sum assured of just over €194,000. Mr H also 
held a further policy with an additional level sum assured of $50,000 (again, taken out 
overseas).
Their original mortgage lending in 2005 was £285,000. The advice given in 2012 was 
alongside an additional mortgage advance of a further £100,000. Halifax says this gave 
them a new combined mortgage liability of over £330,000 as noted in 2013, but Mrs and Mr 
H say at the time of the sale in 2012, the combined debt including the new lending was 
£225,000.
Further, Mrs H was not paying towards the mortgage, The lending was being paid in full by 
Mr H, because Mrs H had suffered an accident one year prior and despite attempts to return 
to work, she was medically unfit to continue working. 
Of itself, a recommendation for life assurance would not be an unreasonable suggestion. 
However, there is no fact find information, no suitability correspondence and no other 
evidence available to show why the policies held by Mr and Mr H which already provided life 
assurance exceeding their combined debt was insufficient in the circumstances (which I do 
not agree it was) or why they would have required additional debt for family protection or 
otherwise. Given the adviser proposed a decreasing term policy with a sum assured 
matching that of the new lending, it would suggest to me that the adviser did not reflect on 
any provisions Mrs and Mr H held, as a recommendation of this kind to match a debt would 
usually take place where the borrowers did not have appropriate insurance in place.  
It follows that I do not believe the recommendation was fair in the circumstances. I have 
seen no objective evidence as to a justification for additional life cover, and a low level of 
decreasing critical illness cover for Mrs H was also not suitable where she was not 
responsible for the mortgage liability and was on limited income. Whilst a budget may have 
been chosen on this basis, a limited lump sum policy for Mrs H where she didnt have 
responsibility for the mortgage debt does not seem to be an appropriate suggestion in the 
circumstances.  
Mrs and Mr H did not respond to the provisional decision.  
Halifax said it believed I ought to reconsider my findings on the basis of a piece of additional 
evidence. It supplied a mortgage statement for Mr and Mr H from 2012 showing that their 
outstanding mortgage debt prior to the additional £100,000 advance was £248,393 and 
following the mortgage advance their total debt was £348,683. Halifax explained that this 
contradicted what Mrs H has said about the new mortgage liability being approximately 
£225,000.   
Halifax said that when looking at Mrs H alone (and therefore, likewise, Mr H) the term 
assurance held in Ireland was not suitable to cover the amount prior to the advance let alone 
the total outstanding borrowing following the advance in May 2012. It also said that as the 
mortgage was in joint names Mrs H was responsible for the mortgage liability too. 
It said it believed on balance it was reasonable to assume the mortgage adviser was aware that existing protection was held; however, that the existing protection was in place to cover 
the existing mortgage borrowing and not the further advance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Halifax for providing further information and submissions for my consideration. 
However, these have not materially changed the findings I set out above. 
I recognise that the combined borrowing Mrs and Mr H took out was higher than suggested 
by Mrs H, but I do not agree that the reasonable conclusion in the absence of any objective 
evidence is that the adviser must have likely been aware of the policies and therefore knew 
Mrs and Mr H required protection for their additional mortgage borrowing. There is no 
evidence from the time of the sale to support that. And on the information that is available, 
Mrs and Mr H had sufficient life assurance cover. 
As I set out in my provisional findings, Halifax has not been able to provide fact find 
information, suitability correspondence or any other evidence to show why the policies held 
by Mrs and Mr H were insufficient in the circumstances or why they would have required 
additional debt for family protection or otherwise.
In any event, the combined policies Mrs and Mr H held had combined sum assured which 
did exceed the combined borrowing (using an approximate currency conversion at the time). 
Those existing policies had level sums assured, and therefore would continue to exceed the 
mortgage liability. Furthermore, they also had terms which exceeded the new borrowing by 
ten and fifteen years respectively.  
I therefore remain of the view that this complaint ought to be upheld.
Putting things right
I direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to refund the premiums paid by Mrs H and 
Mr H for their life assurance policies and Mrs Hs critical illness policy, from their inception in 
2012 until they were surrendered in 2016.  
Interest should be added at gross rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the premiums 
were paid, to the date of settlement.
If Halifax considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest paid, it should 
issue a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mrs and Mr H may be able to reclaim the 
tax paid from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I do not believe the adviser made a suitable recommendation to Mrs 
and Mr H in their particular circumstances. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must 
therefore to pay the redress Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Jo StoreyOmbudsman