DRN-4134389
The complaint
Mr S complains about the decision by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited trading as AXA Health to 
turn down his private medical insurance claim. 
What happened
In September 2021, Mr S took out a private medical insurance policy with AXA. It was taken 
out on a moratorium basis, which meant that AXA wouldnt cover any pre-existing conditions 
from the previous three years. 
In 2022, Mr S made a claim for treatment after being diagnosed with bilateral cataracts. AXA 
turned down the claim, as it thought Mr S had experienced symptoms of the condition before 
the policy started. Unhappy with this, Mr S brought a complaint to this Service. Meanwhile he 
paid for cataract surgery himself.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought AXA had made a 
reasonable claims decision, based on the medical evidence. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators conclusions, and so the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains that when moratorium underwriting is taken out, AXA will not cover pre-
existing conditions. 
The policy defines pre-existing condition as:
any disease, illness or injury for which:
you have received medication, advice or treatment; or
you have experienced symptoms;
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not in the three yearsbefore the start of your 
cover.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr S hadnt been diagnosed with cataracts before the 
policy started. However, AXA is of the view that he had experienced symptoms of this 
condition prior to September 2021, and so it says the claim falls under the above definition of 
a pre-existing condition. 
Mr Ss opticians said that Mr S was seen for a routine eye test in June 2021. They said On 
examination, mild haze noted on crystalline lens. However, Mr [S] was not advised on the 
day regarding this. 
In June 2022, an optometrist (Ms D) referred Mr S to an eye hospital. She said Mr S had 
been suffering with glare and misty vision since before his last eye examination at another 
optician in March 2021, and his glasses were not helping. 
Mr S has provided a letter from his consultant ophthalmic surgeon (Mr K). He said Mr S had 
significant cataracts when seen in his clinic. Mr K explained that Mr S had been referred by 
his optician with mild hazing of the crystalline lens which he confirmed was indeed a 
cataract, and part of the natural ageing process of any patient over the age of sixty. Mr K 
thought it was unfair that AXA had turned down the claim as he did not think Mr Ss cataracts 
were a precondition, and were rather part of his natural ageing process. 
I appreciate that Mr S apparently wasnt advised that he had mild haze on the crystalline 
lens at his appointment in June 2021. Mr K has since confirmed this was a cataract 
Nonetheless, I find that it was still reasonable for AXA to conclude that Mr Ss condition was 
pre-existing, as defined by the policy. I say that because Mr S had experienced symptoms of 
glare and misty vision before the policy started in September 2021, which the NHS says are 
signs of cataracts. 
Im therefore satisfied that AXAs decision to turn down the claim was fair and in line with the 
policy terms.
Mr S says that AXA should exclude cataracts and therefore make it clear that the aged 
applicant will already have a precondition as part of the natural ageing process, and will 
therefore not qualify, whether they know it or not. 
This Service cannot require an insurer to exclude certain medical conditions  it is up to an 
insurer what cover it offers under an insurance contract. Also, I dont agree with Mr Ss 
opinion that policyholders over a certain age cannot make a successful claim for cataracts. 
This condition can be covered under a moratorium policy, so long as it doesnt fall within the 
definition of a pre-existing condition.
Mr S also has some concerns about the sale of the policy. However, the policy was not sold 
by AXA, and so he should raise those concerns with the seller of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman