DRN-2956778
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains about The Co-operative Bank Plcs (the Co-op) 
decision to introduce a new online banking facility during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
This complaint is brought by Fs director  Mr C. 
What happened
F holds a business banking account with the Co-op. In June 2020, they went online to make 
changes to some of their payment beneficiaries, but upon doing so, became locked out of 
online banking. They tried to call the Co-op to rectify the situation on a number of occasions, 
but said the call wait times were too long. So they chose to email the Co-op requesting a call 
back, but were told this wasnt possible and that theyd need to call in. 
Unhappy with this service, F chose to close their account and complained. They said theyre 
unhappy the Co-op chose to implement a new online system in the middle of a pandemic, 
and that this was the cause of the issues they faced when updating their payment 
beneficiaries, and the subsequent lack of access to online banking. Theyre also unhappy 
the Co-op didnt provide a call back service. And they said their business was put at a risk of 
reputational damage. 
The Co-op responded. They said they understood Fs concerns, and theyd experienced 
some issues with their new online banking system. But they said the issues F experienced 
were as a result of them only saving changes to their payments online, rather than pressing 
continue, which meant the changes werent submitted. They said that after three incorrect 
attempts, online access was blocked in line with their process. Regarding the lack of a call 
back, they said they were receiving a high volume of calls during the pandemic, and that 
this, coupled with reduced staff levels, meant they were unable to put a call back service in 
place.
Unhappy with their response, F brought their complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Fs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said from 
the evidence provided, it seemed the issue with the payment beneficiaries not being updated 
was due to F not fully completing the process online, rather than any fault on the Co-ops 
part. She accepted the wait times were long when F tried to call in, but she didnt think this 
was unusual or unreasonable, given that many banks were experiencing similar challenges 
during the pandemic. So she didnt ask the Co-op to do anything more.
But F remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
F also complained about a staff member being paid multiple times when they shouldnt have. 
But this was not raised as part of their original complaint with the Co-op, so this would need 
to be considered under a separate complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking first at the issue of the failed changes to the payment beneficiaries. The Co-op has 
explained that in order for changes to be made to payees on their system, the customer 
would need to make the necessary amendments, and then press continue to complete the 
process. They said there is an option to save changes to a payee if a customer wishes to 
come back and make further amendments. But that this option would simply store the 
details, and the changes would not take effect. 
The Co-op have provided our service with screenshots that show that three payments were 
found in the Incomplete Transactions section  and theyve explained that this is where 
saved changes will show, allowing the customer to come back later and complete them. So, 
based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that F chose to save the payments, 
rather than fully submitting them for processing, and it was this, that caused the error. 
I appreciate that F said it was frustrating to have to try and become accustomed to a new 
way of carrying out their online banking, when theyve explained how easy and straight-
forward they found the previous system. And I can accept that having issues with payments 
being processed, especially during a pandemic, is not ideal and wouldve likely placed strain 
on their business and caused additional administration. But equally, I think the reason for the 
failed changes was more likely than not, a result of an error on Fs part. So I dont hold the 
Co-op responsible for the issues F faced in updating their payees details. Its also not my 
place to comment on a business decision to make wholesale changes to the systems it 
uses. 
F has also said that when they tried to call in, the call wait times were around 60 and 45 
minutes respectively, so rather than waiting to speak to an advisor, they emailed, requesting 
a call back which the Co-op would not agree to. But during the pandemic, many customers 
were trying to contact the Co-op, all with their own queries and concerns. And the Co-op 
have explained they were experiencing a much higher volume of calls than normal, along 
with lower than normal staffing levels, and therefore couldnt provide a call back service. I 
think this is understandable, given the circumstances under which the Co-op and many 
businesses were operating. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that the they asked for F to 
call in and wait, in the same way other customers wouldve been required to. So Im not 
asking the Co-op to do anything further in this regard. 
F has also said that these issues had the potential to cause reputational damage to their 
business. But they havent provided any evidence of any damage caused. And even if I was 
to see such evidence, Ive already concluded above that I dont think the errors that occurred 
were as a result of any fault of the Co-op. So, it follows that any loss or damage caused as a 
result of such error, I would not hold the Co-op responsible for. 
I accept this situation wouldve been frustrating for F, and that long call wait times, and trying 
to familiarise themselves with a new online banking system, while running their business 
during a pandemic, wouldve been stressful. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think 
the online issues they faced were due to any failure on the Co-ops part. And I dont think the 
wait times were unreasonable given the circumstances. So I wont be upholding Fs 
complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Fs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman