DRN-2195102
The complaint
Mrs C complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of her Home Insurance complaint
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
All references to AXA also include its agents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings of our Investigator for these reasons:
The policy document defines an outbuilding as Sheds, Greenhouses, Summer 
Houses and other buildings which dont form part of the main building of the home. 
The definition doesnt specifically mention Garages but its not unusual for them be 
classed as outbuildings in policies  and in this case I think Garages could still be 
classed as other buildings if they met the rest of the definition
I can see from the site investigation reports and photos provided by AXA that Mrs Cs 
Garage was detached and separate from her house, so didnt form part of the main 
building. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to conclude the Garage was 
an outbuilding
The policy document sets out the limits for different types of claims  and I can see 
the limit for contents in outbuildings is £3,000. So, as I think they were fair to 
conclude the Garage was an outbuilding, I think AXA were fair in applying the limit to 
Mrs Cs claim
AXA accepted there have been times where they have failed to manage Mrs Cs 
expectations. I think they had opportunities to let Mrs C aware earlier in her claim that 
there would be a limit on the amount they would pay out. I can also see there have 
been times where the claims progress was slowed or delayed such as when AXAs 
contractor was waiting for responses from AXA. Mrs C didnt find out until much later 
in the claim there was a limit on the amount she would be covered for  and I think to 
find this out when she did, wouldve been very frustrating and upsetting.
AXA have offered Mrs C £350 compensation and in the circumstances I think this is 
fair as it reasonably represents the distress and inconvenience, she has been 
caused. 
So Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right AXA should pay Mrs C £350 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
To put things right I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs C £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman