DRN-3856022
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as V, complains that Finch Commercial Insurance Brokers 
Limited (Finch) didnt highlight a drink driving policy exclusion which was added to its fleet 
insurance policy at renewal in 2020 and 2021. 
Mr V, who is a director of the company, brings the complaint on Vs behalf. For ease of 
reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments of Mr V as being those of V. 
What happened
V took out a fleet insurance policy in 2019 to provide cover for a number of vehicles which it 
owns. The policy was taken out via a broker, Finch.
In March 2021, Vs driver was involved in a collision. The driver was convicted of driving 
whilst over the legal limit of alcohol. V made a claim for the loss of its vehicle against the 
fleet insurance policy. 
The insurer declined Vs claim on the basis that theres an exclusion in Vs fleet insurance 
policy which says that the insurance does not cover any loss or damage arising while the 
vehicle was driven by anyone convicted of driving over the legal limit of alcohol. 
V complains that it has had this policy with the same insurer since 2019 and at the time of 
inception in 2019, the drink driving exclusion wasnt in the policy. V says that when the 
exclusion was added to the policy in 2020 and 2021, Finch didnt make it aware of the 
change and therefore it thought that all accidents, irrespective of how they happened, would 
be covered. V believes this to be a significant change in the policy which should have been 
highlighted by Finch. 
Finch says the insurer didnt provide them with the policy wording for the period relevant to 
the claim in question or advise them of a material change and therefore it wasnt possible to 
make V aware of the drink driving policy exclusion. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. In summary, he 
said that the drink driving exclusion within Vs policy isnt a significant or onerous term which 
needed highlighting by Finch. In any event he wasnt persuaded that the drivers actions 
would have changed even if V had been made aware of the specific exclusion or that V 
could have prevented this situation from occurring. He pointed out that it would be rare for an 
insurance policy to cover for an insured event whilst driving when over the legal limit of 
alcohol and the Road Traffic Act 1988 also deemed this to be an offence. He also wasnt 
satisfied that even if the exclusion wasnt in the policy that an insurer would provide cover 
under these circumstances. 
V asked for an ombudsmans review and so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Im considering this complaint against Finch, the client facing broker during the sale and 
renewal of the policy. So, I am only considering Finchs actions in relation to the matter and 
any loss caused as a result their action. That means Ill consider if they met their obligations 
as a broker. But I wont consider whether or not the policy exclusion for drink driving has 
been applied correctly because that responsibility lies with the insurer. Any concerns about 
the applicability of the exclusion, would need to be raised separately with the insurer directly. 
The crux of this complaint is whether Finch made an error in not highlighting the drink driving 
exclusion within Vs fleet insurance policy. V says that it was Finchs responsibility to inform 
it of any significant changes to the policy. 
The key facts document confirms that this was an advised sale. This means, under the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys(FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business regulations (ICOBS),  
Finch had a responsibility to ensure the suitability of their advice. They also had a general 
duty to provide appropriate information that is clear and not misleading to enable V to make 
an informed decision about the policy. 
I have carefully considered the drink driving exclusion which V says should have been 
highlighted by Finch. I dont find this an unusual exclusion and I agree with the investigator 
that the exclusion isnt one which needs to be highlighted by Finch. As such I dont think 
Finch has made an error by not making V aware of the exclusion. 
V has said that the drink driving exclusion wasnt stated within its fleet insurance policy in 
2019 and its also not a term in its current policy with a different insurer, suggesting that 
cover would be provided if in the same circumstances occurred during those periods. It 
therefore says that Finch should have made it aware of this change. 
I have reviewed the relevant policy documents and V is right that it wasnt an exclusion 
stated within its policy in 2019. But I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint because even if it had been there Im not satisfied that either V or its driver would 
have taken different action even if it knew about the exclusion. I say this because I think its 
unlikely that V would have taken the cover out expecting its driver to use the vehicle while 
over the legal limit of alcohol and also Im not sure how it would have prevented this instance 
from occurring.
Im also not persuaded that the addition of the exclusion was a significant change which 
needed highlighting. I say this because, as the investigator has correctly pointed out, the 
Road Traffic Act 1998, Section 5 (1)(a) states that if a person drives a vehicle on a road after 
consuming so much alcohol that exceeds the legal limit he is guilty of an offence. So, even if 
the exclusion isnt explicitly stated it is still an offence under the Road Traffic Act 1998. 
Therefore, whether the exclusion was stated in the policy or not there was always an onus 
on the driver to ensure that this situation didnt occur, and in the event that it did happen, I 
think its very unlikely that an insurer would cover a loss in such circumstances. Therefore, I 
think its more likely than not that this situation would have always resulted in the same 
outcome whether Finch made V aware or not. 
V has also said that its director should receive some compensation for the way he has been 
treated. This complaint has been brought to our service by V and therefore I can only consider any loss and suffering incurred to V and not its director in his personal capacity. I 
understand this must have been a stressful period for Vs director but Im sorry I cant 
consider any impact on him personally under this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman