DRN-2789241
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded him all of the money he lost when he fell 
victim to an online scam.  
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Ds complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so 
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mr D wanted to book flights to go and visit family. He filled in his details online and 
then received a call from a person pretending to be from a well known travel 
company. 
Mr D sent a total of £2,299 to a fraudster. He did so on the premise he was booking 
flights through a legitimate travel company. 
Mr D paid a deposit of £762 on 21 January 2020 and made a further payment of 
£1,537 to pay the balance on 6 February 2020.
The fraudsters used details of the genuine travel company, such as its logo, to make 
the scam more convincing. 
The fraudsters provided false documents which were very similar to what the genuine 
travel company would issue, such as an ATOL certificate and a flight schedule. 
Mr D complained to Santander and his complaint was considered under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is a voluntary scheme Santander has signed up 
to, designed to reimburse customers that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position 
under the Code is for a customer to be refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it 
establishes that a customer has not met their requisite level of care. In making such an 
assessment, a firm may consider whether the customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Santander was able to recover the £1,537 payment Mr D had sent from the receiving bank. 
But it declined to refund the remainder of Mr Ds loss. It issued its final response on 
6 March 2020. It said that it wasnt responsible for the loss because Mr D had willingly made 
the payment. 
Mr D brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Santanders decision.
When Santander submitted its complaint papers to us, it said that it was not upholding 
Mr Ds claim because he chose to proceed to make the payment despite the on screen 
warnings it had given him at the time. It said Mr D had not provided any information which 
demonstrates he made his own due diligence checks prior to making his payment or that 
hed followed the advice the bank gave him. It thought Mr D had not taken reasonable steps 
to protect himself before making the payment, so his claim was not covered by the CRM 
code. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld.
He said Santander had not been clear about whether it considered Mr D had ignored an 
effective warning. But he looked at the screenshots the bank had provided of the payment 
journey and concluded the warning would not have been impactful in Mr Ds specific 
circumstances. He pointed out the warning did not alert Mr D to the type of scam hed fallen 
victim to. He was not persuaded that Santander had been able to establish that Mr D should 
not be reimbursed on the basis that he ignored an effective warning about the circumstances 
of the payment he was making.
Our investigator also did not think that Santander had been able to establish that Mr D did 
not have a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person he was expecting to 
pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the person or business with
whom they transacted with was legitimate. He pointed out that the documentation the 
fraudster sent to Mr D was convincing. The flight schedule was exactly the same as what the 
genuine airline would send. He did not think there was anything concerning about the way 
the fraudster had interacted with Mr D when they spoke on the phone and he did not think 
the price quoted for the flights was outside of what flights to this destination typically cost. 
The investigator concluded Santander ought to have reimbursed the remainder of Mr Ds 
loss under the provisions of the CRM Code at the time he made his claim. He said 
Santander should now settle the complaint by refunding the outstanding £762 together with 
interest on the sum at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined his claim to the 
date of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 19 March 2021 with a deadline for 
responding of 16 April 2021. That deadline has now passed and the bank did not respond. 
As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it.  
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Santander to the 
investigators initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the 
evidence we already have and/or to take account of Santanders failure to reply to the 
investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mr D ought to have been reimbursed when he 
notified Santander of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his 
requisite level of care under the CRM Code. I believe he did, and for substantively the same 
reasons the investigator has already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable 
for Mr D to have received a refund of the remainder of his loss at the time.
Putting things right 
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr D ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Santander UK Plc 
to pay Mr D:
the remainder of the money he lost as part of the scam - £762  within 28 days of 
receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Santander declined Mr Ds claim under the CRM to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint about Santander UK Plc, as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman