DRN-3809607
The complaint
Miss F complains that a refund sent to her by a merchant hasnt been passed on to her by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard.
What happened
In November 2015, Miss F made a purchase using her Barclaycard from a merchant which 
Ill refer to as H. Miss F says she didnt accept delivery of the item but didnt receive a 
refund, so made a claim on her Barclaycard. Her claim was rejected by Barclaycard as it 
said she didnt provide sufficient evidence.
Miss F continued her dispute with H and it agreed to refund the transaction and confirmed to 
her that it had done so in an email dated 20 December 2020. But the money didnt appear 
on her credit card account, so Miss F complained to Barclaycard asking it to trace the 
payment. She had problems getting through to speak to the relevant department to do so. 
Barclaycard apologised for the time it took Miss F to get through to speak to someone about 
her complaint. It credited £25 to her account in recognition of that. But it said it had dealt with 
her dispute about H previously and would not do so again. Barclaycard said if she had 
evidence of the refund being made to it, it would look into that further.  
Miss F was unhappy with Barclaycards response, so she referred her complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into it and explained we couldnt look again at the 
initial dispute, but we could look at the issue with the refund. 
Miss F provided further evidence from H regarding the refund and our investigator looked 
into the complaint. Our investigator noted that H had said the refund was processed on 
1 February 2020 and to a different card. She felt therefore that Barclaycard had never 
received the refund and suggested Miss F should check with her other credit card provider 
who Ill refer to as A. 
Miss F didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been referred to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role in this complaint is to look at the issue regarding Barclaycards involvement in the 
missing refund. I cant comment on Hs role in this as H is not covered by our service. And I 
cant comment further on the underlying dispute regarding receipt of the item itself as that 
has already been looked into by our service.
Ive carefully looked at all the information provided by Barclaycard and Miss F including the 
messages shes provided between her and H. Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Miss F, but Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. 
Miss F has provided the following messages from H.
1 December 2020 confirming the refund has been processed and suggesting Miss F 
contacts her bank to confirm. 
11 February 2022 saying the refund has been processed and suggesting Miss F 
contacts her bank to confirm.
An email dated 16 February 2022 which says, As previously advised, the refund will 
not have appeared on your Barclays card, as the refund was issued onto an [A] 
account via a Visa card payment.
Two emails 2 March 2022 confirming:
oThe refund was made on 1 February 2020.
oThe details of the Barclaycard was used for the purchase in November 2015. 
Barclaycard has provided statements of Miss Fs account with it covering the period when H 
says the refund was made (1 February 2020) and the refund does not appear.
All the evidence we have from Barclaycard, Miss F and H shows that the refund wasnt 
credited to her Barclaycard account. H has said the refund was made to her account with A. 
Our investigator has suggested Miss F should contact A to check if its been received there. 
Miss F hasnt confirmed if she has or provided anything to show the refund hasnt arrived 
there. Given the evidence Ive set out above, I cant reasonably conclude that Barclaycard 
has done anything wrong with regards to the refund.
I note Miss F said she had trouble raising this complaint with Barclaycard as its phone lines 
were busy and she was passed between departments. Barclaycard has apologised for that 
and paid her £25. This is not out of line with awards we might make in similar circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman