DRN-2163055
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt with his claim on
his motorbike insurance policy.
For ease of reading any reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Mr L was involved in an accident while riding his motorbike. Advantage recovered his
motorbike and had it inspected by an engineer. The engineer said it was a category B total
loss and provided a pre-accident value of £3,063. Mr L didnt think it should be recorded as a
category B total loss. He also disputed the value given so he asked to see the engineers
report.
When Mr L read the report, he discovered there were incorrect statements made about the
condition of his motorbike. In particular that the rear wheel was locked and that there were
possibly mechanical issues. Because of this he appointed his own engineer to inspect the
motorbike as he didnt think it was right to be recorded as a category B total loss.
Mr Ls engineer said the categorisation was correct as the frame of the motorbike might be
damaged. However, he said the trade guides werent reflective of the value of the motorbike
as the advertised prices were significantly higher. He provided a value of £3,600. As Mr L
wasnt happy with how Advantage had dealt with his claim he complained.
Advantage reviewed his complaint and didnt uphold it. They said Mr Ls engineer had
agreed the motorbike was a category B total loss and had based his valuation on the extras
Mr Ls motorbike had, which he hadnt declared. Mr L accepted his motorbike was a total 
loss but didnt agree to the value given so brought his complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 August 2020 where I said: Mr Ls policy says the most 
it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value. It defines market value as The cost of 
replacing your motorcycle in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage occurred 
with one of a similar make, model, age and condition. Publications may be used which refer 
to vehicle values such as Glass's Guide to assess the market value, with an allowance 
being made for the mileage, condition and circumstances of purchase by you.
Our service doesnt value motorbikes, instead we check to see that an insurers valuation is
fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. In most cases we
use the trade guides as theyre based on nationwide research. I can see this is what
Advantage has based its valuation on, but in this particular case Im not persuaded thats
provided a fair and reasonable valuation.
I say this because Mr L and the engineer he appointed have looked at the advertised prices
and found theyre significantly higher than the values in the guides. Advantage discounted
Mr Ls engineer as they said his valuation was based on the extras Mr Ls motorbike had.
And that advertised prices usually arent what a motorbike actually ends up selling for.
The engineer who Mr L appointed to inspect his motorbike said, I have checked the internet
for similar machines for sale and the asking prices are much higher than the guide figures,
ranging from £3,499 to £3,999. Hes then gone on to say I also realise that you had
numerous extras fitted to this machine. In conclusion I would place a pre-accident valuation
of £3,600 on this machine. Because of this Im not persuaded by Advantages argument
that the higher value was only because of the extras fitted. I say this because while in some
cases additional extras may increase the selling prices, in most motor insurance cases Ive
seen they dont increase the value but do make a vehicle easier to sell. I therefore think on
balance that the engineers value of £3,600 is higher because of the adverts and is a fair
valuation in this particular case. Im therefore not persuaded Advantage have fairly valued
Mr Ls motorbike.
Advantage should pay Mr L £3,600 for the market value of his bike, in line with the terms and
conditions of the policy. I can see Advantage offered Mr L an interim payment, as he didnt
accept this Advantage should add 8% simple interest per year to the increased part of the
valuation to compensate Mr L for not having the money. Advantage should calculate this
from the date of accident until the date they make payment.
Ive also considered that because Mr L wasnt happy with how Advantage handled his claim
he had to pay £150 for an engineer to inspect his motorbike. When the engineer inspected
Mr Ls motorbike, he agreed the rear wheel wasnt locked along with reaching a different
valuation to Advantage. Mr L only paid for this report because of Advantages errors,
therefore Advantage should pay Mr L the £150 he paid for the report. They should also add
8% simple interest per year to this amount to compensate him for not having the money.
Advantage should calculate it from the date Mr L paid it until the date they make payment.
Mr Ls claim has been ongoing for some time and I can see hes had a lot of unnecessary
distress and inconvenience because of Advantages errors. Hes had to arrange his own
engineer, take time out of work to attend the inspection and had numerous contacts with
Advantage. To compensate Mr L for this unnecessary distress and inconvenience, 
Advantage should also pay him £150.
Mr L responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. He also said Advantage had 
been in contact and paid a partial settlement which he felt Advantage had done to try and 
avoid paying some of the interest I said I was likely to award in my provisional decision. 
Advantage responded and didnt accept it. They said Id based my decision only on the 
engineers report. They said the valuations in the engineers report were higher because of 
the additional extras Mr Ls motorbike had, and the policy didnt cover them. Advantage also 
said the valuations wed got from the trade guides were higher than the ones theyd found 
when looking at the guides. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering Advantages response, Ive not been persuaded to change my mind. I say 
this because the valuations Ive seen in the trade guides are similar to the values Advantage 
said they found in the trade guides. So, Im not persuaded theyre significantly different. 
When issuing my provisional decision, I referred to the engineers valuation being higher 
because of the advertised prices the engineer had seen. I agree Mr Ls engineer did 
consider the additional extras, but Im not persuaded thats why the engineers valuation is 
higher, for the reasons Ive explained above. Also, Advantage havent shown that the additional extras on Mr Ls motorbike would have increased its value, so Im not persuaded 
thats the reason for the engineers valuation being higher. 
Ive also looked at advertised prices for motorbikes of similar age and mileage to Mr Ls. 
These adverts are almost a year after Mr Ls motorbike was deemed a total loss, so the 
motorbikes are a year older. From the adverts Ive seen the prices advertised are still higher 
than what Advantage valued Mr Ls motorbike. As these are for motorbikes a year older, Im 
satisfied it supports Mr Ls engineers valuation and that it was based on the advertised 
prices rather than the additional extras.  
I understand Advantage have now paid a partial settlement to Mr L. The doesnt affect the 
interest awarded as it would need to be calculated as set out in my provisional decision, as 
my final decision has reached the same outcome. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that 
I uphold this complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited need to pay Mr L:
1. £3,600 for the market value of his motorbike, plus 8% simple interest per year on the
additional amount calculated from the date of accident until the date of payment
2. £150 for the engineers report, plus 8% simple interest per year on this amount
calculated from the date he paid it until the date of payment
3. £150 for distress and inconvenience
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr L a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman