DRN-2738755
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Vitality Corporate Services Limited declined her critical illness claim. 
What happened
Mrs O applied for a life and critical illness policy with Vitality on 29 February 2020 through 
her financial advisor and the policy started on 20 March 2020. 
When she applied for the policy, Mrs O answered No to the following questions;
Apart from any condition you have already told us about, have you had any of the following 
in the last 5 years:
Lump, cyst, growth or skin lesion of any kind, or a mole or freckle that has bled, become 
painful, itchy, changed colour, increased in size or that you have been advised to monitor?
Apart from anything you have already told us about in this form, do you have any impairment 
or medical complaints that you intend seeking medical advice for, or are you currently 
awaiting the results of any investigations?
Sadly, in May 2020 Mrs O was diagnosed with breast cancer. So, she had to make a claim 
under the policy. Vitality considered the claim but decided to decline it. It said Mrs O had 
deliberately or recklessly misrepresented her medical history when taking out the policy. 
Specifically, it said Mrs O shouldve answered yes to the above questions and if she had 
done so, it wouldnt have offered her a policy. So, it decided to cancel her policy and return 
her premiums. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that Mrs O shouldve 
answered the above question differently and if she had done so, Vitality wouldnt have 
offered her a policy. 
Mrs O disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said she was pregnant at 
the time she became aware of the lumps in her breast and there wasnt any concern about 
one of her lumps until she was diagnosed with mastitis in April 2020. So, she said she did 
answer the questions correctly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for 
Mrs O. Id like to assure her I havent made this decision lightly. In doing so, Ive looked at 
and considered all the evidence Mrs O and Vitality have provided to this service  and Id 
like to assure her that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent 
considered it, but because Im focusing instead on whats important to the outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
So, the issues for me to consider are whether Mrs O has misrepresented her medical history 
when taking out this policy. And if so, Vitality needs to show it wouldnt have offered the 
policy at all or on different terms. 
Was there a misrepresentation in relation to Mrs Os medical history?
CIDRA requires me to consider whether a reasonable person wouldve made 
Vitality aware of Mrs Os medical history when applying for the policy. Having done so, I 
dont think a reasonable person wouldve forgotten about the lump when completing the 
application and considering the questions Vitality asked. 
I understand Mrs O has said she saw her GP in March 2020 for a lump in her breast and 
was given antibiotics. The GP notes of her consultation in March mention the lump being 
bean sized and was present since November 2019. Mrs O disputes this note saying she had 
a miscarriage in November and the note was referring to that. But Ive seen a further note 
from her GP, in April 2020, which mentions the lump was walnut sized and hadnt changed 
since November 2019. So, Im satisfied  on balance  Mrs Os lump had been present 
before she applied for the policy and she was reasonably aware of this when she completed 
the application. 
Mrs O says she answered the question correctly as she hadnt received a diagnosis when 
she applied for the policy. Having reviewed the questions Mrs O was asked, Im satisfied it 
was sufficiently clear to allow her to answer them correctly. I understand she had no reason 
to be concerned when she first noticed the lumps during her pregnancy in late 2019 and she 
hadnt received any medical advice to have the lumps investigated. But that wasnt the only 
thing Vitality wanted to know about. Vitality wanted Mrs O to tell it if she had any lumps in 
her breast. And Im satisfied thats the important information Vitality wanted to be made 
aware of. As a result of Mrs O not making Vitality aware of the lump in her breast, despite 
being made reasonably aware of the consequences if she failed to do so, I believe the above 
questions shouldve been answered differently. 
So, I believe Mrs O did make a misrepresentation here. 
What would Vitality have done differently? 
Vitality has treated this misrepresentation as reckless. But its applied a careless remedy 
under CIDRA, which is to cancel the policy and refund the premiums. Im not satisfied Mrs O 
deliberately or recklessly misrepresented her medical history. So, I believe its appropriate to 
categorise her actions as careless here. And under CIDRA, when its found a consumer has 
made a careless misrepresentation, Vitality can take whatever action it wouldve taken if 
the correct answers had been given at the point of application. Based on what we know about Mrs Os lump and referral at the time of the application, 
Vitality has provided its underwriting criteria which shows if it was made aware of this, it 
wouldnt have offered a policy until the lump had been investigated and an outcome was 
known. And because it was the investigations after April 2020 that led to her cancer 
diagnosis, this means Vitality wouldnt have offered Mrs O any cover here. 
I know my decision leaves Mrs O in a difficult position following her diagnosis and her 
current state of health. Im sorry to disappoint her, but overall, I dont think shes been 
treated unfairly. So, Im not going to ask Vitality to take any further action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman