DRN-2391539
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Motors Insurance Company Limited (MICL) unfairly settled his 
guaranteed asset protection policy leaving him owing money to his finance provider 
Reference to MICL includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged in an accident. His comprehensive motor insurer said it was a total 
loss and offered to provide Mr M a replacement car of the same make and model. Mr M 
wasn't happy with the safety of that model of car, so he turned down that offer. Mr Ms motor 
insurer then settled his claim for the loss of the old car based on its market value (the 
settlement). The motor insurer paid that sum to the finance provider which had loaned Mr M 
the money to buy his car. The market value of the car was around £5,600 less than the 
finance still owing on it. 
Mr M claimed on his GAP policy for the difference between the settlement and the finance 
owing on his car. MICL said that because Mr M had refused the offer of a replacement car 
his GAP policy only entitled him to a payment of £525.
Mr M didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She thought MICL had dealt with Mr Ms GAP claim fairly. Mr M didn't agree, 
so his complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr Ms policy says that if his car is a total loss it will pay the difference between his motor 
insurers settlement for the loss of his car and its purchase price, or the amount outstanding 
on the finance agreement, whichever is higher. But crucially Mr Ms GAP policy also says it 
will only settle claims on that basis where the motor insurer has not offered to provide Mr M 
with a replacement car. 
In this case the motor insurer did offer Mr M a replacement car. Mr M refused that offer. And 
in those circumstances Mr Ms GAP policy says it will pay the difference between the value 
of the replacement car and the price Mr M paid for his car. In this case Mr M paid £24,665 
for his car and MICL valued his replacement car at £24,390. The difference between those 
two values is £275. And MICL said it would pay that amount to Mr M together with a £250 
contribution towards his motor insurance excess, which the GAP policy entitles him to. The 
two sums come to a total of £525, which is the amount MICL offered to settle Mr Ms claim 
for. In other words MICL settled Mr Ms GAP claim in line with the terms of his policy. And I 
think thats fair.
I understand Mr M chose to turn down the replacement car because he didn't think the 
model was safe. But that was his choice and Mr Ms concerns about the safety of the 
replacement car doesn't mean that the terms of his GAP policy no longer apply. And I think 
the GAP policy is clear that if Mr M turns down a replacement car then MICL will limit the 
amounts it will pay based on the value of the replacement car, and not the motor insurers 
settlement. Thats what MICL did. So I think it dealt with the claim reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman