DRN-3005010
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly applied a 
default and other adverse information to her credit file without providing her with the 
opportunity to address the issues. 
What happened
Mrs M was refused credit and so checked her credit report. At this time, she realised that 
she had a credit card with Barclaycard that had a default and several missed payments 
recorded against it. She says she wasnt aware of this account and hadnt received any 
communication about the status of the account. She has another credit card with 
Barclaycard which she says was up to date. 
Mrs M called Barclaycard and cleared the account. She explained she hadnt received any 
communication about the account and so wasnt given the opportunity to prevent the default 
being recorded. She says Barclaycard said it had tried to contact her, but she then 
discovered it was using an out of date address and an email address she had never had. 
Barclaycard said that the credit card was one that Mrs M took out with another provider that 
was migrated to Barclaycard in November 2011 with the address details provided to it at that 
time. It acknowledged Mrs Ms comments that it had her correct address for another account 
and said that this was set up under a new customer profile and so the accounts werent 
linked. It apologised for the inconvenience Mrs M had been caused and confirmed the 
account had now been linked and her contact details updated. It offered her £150 as an 
apology.
Regarding the credit file information, Barclaycard said this wouldnt be amended. It said a 
direct debit was set up for payment on the migrated account between 2011 and 2019 and 
that this was cancelled after two payments were missed and returned to Mrs Ms bank. It 
said the payments were ongoing for a long time and her bank statements would have shown 
the returned payments. It said the default wouldnt be removed as it was required to report 
all factual information to the credit reference agencies.  
Mrs M didnt accept Barclaycards offer and referred her complaint to this service. She said 
she wanted her credit file amended as she hadnt received any information about the 
account so couldnt prevent the default being recorded. She said she didnt know it there 
were charges applied and so couldnt say if £150 was enough to cover these. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted that the credit card account was 
migrated to Barclaycard in November 2011 with the address on file at that time and that the 
electoral register had Mrs Ms address changing in 2009 suggesting the address wasnt 
updated with the previous card operator for two years before the migration. He didnt think 
Barclaycard was at fault by holding an old address and writing to Mrs M at this address 
about the arrears and default on the account. Although Mrs M had then opened a new 
account with Barclaycard, our investigator didnt think it reasonable to say this removed 
Mrs Ms responsibility to update the address on her migrated account.
Our investigator noted that payments were being received on the migrated account until April 
2019. The direct debit was cancelled in July 2019 following letters about missed payments, 
arrears, and default notices, a default was applied to Mrs Ms credit file. He thought that 
based on this the default had been fairly applied. 
Mrs M didnt accept our investigators view. She said that the original card holder had her 
correct address and email and this hadnt been passed to Barclaycard at migration. She said 
that Barclaycard would have received returned mail or could have checked her credit file to 
see if the details were correct. She also reiterated that she opened an account with 
Barclaycard, and it had run a credit check before providing this and so it shouldve been 
aware she already had an account with it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M had a credit card account that was migrated to Barclaycard in 2011. Mrs M says that 
she had updated her address with the original card operator and that it had her correct email 
address. However, when Barclaycard took over the account Mrs Ms old address was on file 
and there was an incorrect email address. I note Mrs Ms comments about the original card 
operator having her correct address, however it appears she moved in 2009 and copies of 
statements provided by the original card operator up to 2011 had the old address recorded. 
Based on this it doesnt appear that Mrs Ms address was up to date before the migration to 
Barclaycard took place. 
Because Barclaycard held an old address for Mrs M she didnt receive any information about 
the account. I understand her comments about this and that she said she wasnt aware this 
account was still outstanding. However, as there was an outstanding balance at the time of 
migration and Mrs M continued to make direct debit payments towards the account until April 
2019, I think it reasonable to say that she should have been reasonably aware of the 
account and that it remained separate to the new account she opened with Barclaycard.
Mrs M opened a new Barclaycard account in 2012. I understand her comments that a credit 
check was undertaken and so the other account should have been noted. Also, that as 
Barclaycard had her correct address then it shouldnt have used an old address for her. I can 
see Barclaycard supported this complaint point. It then explained that the new account was 
opened under a new customer profile which was why the accounts werent linked. While I 
can understand why Mrs M would have expected the accounts to have been linked, as she 
was still making her monthly minimum payments towards the migrated account and there 
was a balance on this I think it reasonable that she would have seen the new account hadnt 
been linked or combined with the old account. Had she been concerned about this she could 
have raised this at the time.
As Mrs Ms direct debit was being paid until April 2019, there wasnt an issue with her 
migrated account. However, Barclaycard has said that two payments were then returned, 
and the direct debit cancelled. I have looked at the statements and can see the returned 
direct debits and that charges were then applied. It is Mrs Ms responsibility to maintain her 
payments and while I appreciate her comment about not being aware of this account, I think 
she should have been reasonably aware that a regular direct debit on her account had now 
been returned on two occasions. Had she contacted Barclaycard at that time the issue may 
have been resolved without further action.
This is not a clear cut case as the statements show Mrs M wasnt using the migrated 
account but was making the minimum payment towards it over several years. She then opened a new account with Barclaycard, and this could have raised the issue which could 
have then been resolved at that time, however as she was set up as a new customer this 
didnt happen. I also note that Mrs M paid the default balance as soon as she became aware 
of this which supports her comments that had she been aware of the status of the account 
before it was defaulted she would have acted to address this.
However, given she was making the payments until 2019 and then had payments returned, I 
think it reasonable to accept she was aware of the account and the need to maintain her 
payments. I appreciate she wasnt aware an old address was being used and so didnt 
receive the correspondence, but I cannot see evidence that she updated her address before 
the migration, and I have nothing to suggest Barclaycard was aware the contact details 
provided at that time werent up to date. 
Barclaycard has offered to pay Mrs M £150 compensation for the long standing issue and 
the time taken for her to receive a response to her complaint and I think this is reasonable. 
On balance, I do not find I have enough to say it is required to take further action by 
amending Mrs Ms credit file or providing further compensation. I say this because 
Barclaycard provided notice of the issues on the account to the address on file and Mrs M 
should have been aware that payments were returned. Therefore, I do not think that 
Barclaycard has done anything wrong by recording the information it has with the credit 
reference agencies. Mrs M could add a notice of correction to her credit file explaining how 
the default arose if she wished to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay the £150 
compensation as it offered in its final response letter for the inconvenience Mrs M has been 
caused but do not require it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman