DRN-3399919
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its account without 
giving any reason.
What happened
The director of S explains that it had been a long-standing customer of Barclays. S had been 
referred by Barclays to the account terms and conditions on closure. And it couldnt see that 
any reasons for closure that were set out applied. The director says he spent hours trying to 
find out the reason wanting to reverse the decision. The account was closed in April 2021 
which damaged the business as it wasnt able to open another account elsewhere. The 
director says that in around he thinks June or July 2021 he was called by a manager from 
Barclays and told that this had been a mistake, but he never received a promised letter 
about this.
Barclays said it hadnt made any mistake. It said that it couldnt divulge the reason for 
closure. But that it had closed the account in line with the terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Barclays had issued a letter 
to S on 22 February 2021 stating that the account would be closed on 23 April 2021. That 
had been in line with the Barclays business customer agreement. There was no evidence to 
support S being later told that this was an error.
S didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. No answer whatsoever has been 
given and the director thought that this arose from a mistake and confusion between S and a 
business with a similar name. As a result, S has gone out of business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked our investigator to confirm with the director of S that at the current time S still exists 
as a legal entity. And that I am only looking at its complaint here and not a personal 
complaint by the director which will be addressed by this service separately.
Im afraid that Barclays was entitled to make the commercial decision not to provide S with 
account facilities any longer. And here it gave two months notice in line with its terms and 
conditions and doesnt have to explain why. The possible reasons for closure S refers to in 
the customer agreement may be relevant in cases where less than two months or no notice 
is given. And Barclays has also confirmed to this service that no detrimental information has 
been recorded against S. I can see that the director tried to find out the reasons but was 
unsuccessful. Barclays noted he told it he didnt receive the final response letter to this 
complaint dated 19 March 2021 and that it sent this again.
This outcome will, I know, be a significant disappointment to the director of S who couldnt 
understand why this was happening. I understand this and that he genuinely believed that 
Barclays had later changed its mind. I dont have anything to support that and this isnt 
Barclays position. I know he thought that there was some confusion between S and another 
company with a similar name behind the closure decision. But again, I dont have anything to 
show that any error has been made.
In conclusion Im afraid I dont have a basis to require Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman