DRN-2797243
The complaint
Mr W complains about poor complaint handling by Covea Insurance plc when his car was
involved in a collision with a bus, and he notified Covea in accordance with the terms of his
motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr W insured his car under a motor insurance policy which was underwritten by Covea. In
December 2019 his car was in a collision with a bus. On 16 January 2020, he told Covea
about the collision.
Mr W said his car was stationery at the point of collision, and so the bus driver was
responsible. He was aware that the bus would have a CCTV camera, and advised Covea to
obtain the footage from this which he was confident would show he wasnt at fault.
Covea asked the insurers of the bus to admit liability. They said that having spoken to the
bus driver they didnt believe that in the circumstances he could or should have done
anything differently. So they didnt accept liability for the collision. However, they said the
bus company didnt propose to make a claim against Mr W.
They confirmed the bus company did hold relevant CCTV footage, but it wasnt until early
March 2020 that Covea submitted a formal request for this to be provided. Although they
continued to ask for this, the insurers of the bus have said that the bus company offices
where this is held are closed because of the COVID restrictions, and so it cant be accessed.
Mr W wanted Covea to repair his car under his own policy. Covea was willing to do this, but
said he would first have to pay the £250 excess under this policy. It said it would refund this
if liability was later established against the bus company. However, Mr W wouldnt pay this
as he wasnt confident that he would get it back from Covea.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said Covea
acknowledged that it had been slow initially to ask for the CCTV footage. It had offered Mr W
compensation of £50 for this delay; Mr W had declined this, but the investigator thought the
offer was reasonable in the circumstances.
The investigator was satisfied that since then Covea had continued to ask for the footage,
but was told it couldnt yet be accessed. He thought Covea had done what it could; he said
this service could only consider what Covea had or hadnt done, and couldnt consider the
actions of the bus company or its insurers.
The investigator also said it was common practice across the insurance industry to require
the policy excess to be collected before repairs commenced. So he couldnt say Covea had
done anything wrong in asking for this.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators recommendation, and asked for his complaint to be
reviewed.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision to Mr W and to Covea on 30 March 2021. In it I said that I 
didnt think Covea had done enough to progress Mr Ws claim against the bus company. The 
investigator had put some questions to Covea about its handling of the claim, to which 
Covea had responded. I thought the following question and response was particularly 
relevant:
Q.   It seems the CCTV evidence may now never become available. Has Covea formed a
view on whether in the absence of any CCTV evidence, Mr Ws evidence, and the
physical situation, would be strong enough to make it likely, on the balance of
probabilities, that the bus driver would be held responsible for the collision?
A.   Covea are maintaining that Mr W was not at fault for the incident  in the absence of the
CCTV footage. This opinion has been formed based on the other available evidence
presented to us during the claim and we are declining the 50/50 offer which is currently
being made by the Third Party. In light of this, I believe that Covea feels the evidence which
is available to us is strong enough to defend our position.
This indicated to me that for some time Coveas conduct of the claim had been purely
passive. It was satisfied that it could defend any claim made against Mr W. But the bus 
company had made it clear it didnt intend to bring any claim, although it didnt accept 
liability. So nothing was happening, and Mr Ws car remained unrepaired.
At the outset, Covea had arranged for Mr W to be interviewed, and to provide a statement. 
This set out clearly what Mr W says happened. But Covea had failed to:
discuss this with its litigation team, and consider with it the prospects of a legal claim 
against the bus company succeeding;
consider the prospects of being able to access the CCTV footage as part of such a 
legal claim;
discuss with Mr W the prospects of a claim against the bus company succeeding on 
the basis, as the bus company had suggested, that the CCTV evidence didnt exist; 
and
discuss with Mr W the offer the bus company had made to split liability 50/50.
I thought it was fair and reasonable that Covea should compensate Mr W for this poor claims
handling. In addition to the £50 it had offered Mr W for its delay in seeking the CCTV 
footage, I thought it should pay him a further £150, making £200 in all.
Under the terms of the policy, Mr W was required to pay the total excess shown in the 
Schedule of Insurance for every incident claimed for under the policy. So like the investigator
I agreed that Covea was entitled to require Mr W to pay his excess of £250 before repairs 
began.
The policy also provided that Covea could:
Take over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in your name or in 
the name of any other person insured by your policy.
Instigate proceedings at their own expense and for their own benefit but in your name 
or in the name of any other person insured by your policy to recover any payment that they have made under your policy.
This meant Covea was entitled to decide whether it was reasonable in the circumstances to 
bring proceedings against the bus company, and how to conduct any such claim. Mr W 
couldnt tell it what to do. But I said it should at least consider with its legal advisers, and with 
Mr W, what action it should be taking, as set out more fully below.
I said that having done so, Covea should set out clearly to Mr W what his options now were, 
and invite him to decide how he wished to proceed.
Subject to any further comments and evidence I received from either Covea or from Mr W, I 
said I intended to order Covea Insurance plc to:
1. pay Mr W compensation of £200 in total for its poor claims handling;
2. discuss with its litigation team, and/or other legal advisers, the prospects of a legal 
claim against the bus company succeeding, with or without CCTV footage, and the 
prospects of being able to access the CCTV footage as part of such a legal claim;
3. discuss with Mr W the legal advice it receives following 2. above, the prospects of a 
claim against the bus company succeeding, with or without CCTV footage, and the 
offer the bus company had made to split liability 50/50; and
4. following 2. and 3. above, set out clearly to Mr W what his options were, and invite 
him to decide how he wished to proceed.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr W nor Covea provided any response to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr W nor Covea has provided any fresh information or evidence in response to 
my provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
  
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Covea should take the steps, and pay the money, as set out in my 
final decision below.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order Covea Insurance plc to:
1. pay Mr W compensation of £200 in total for its poor claims handling;
2. discuss with its litigation team, and/or other legal advisers, the prospects of a legal 
claim against the bus company succeeding, with or without CCTV footage, and the 
prospects of being able to access the CCTV footage as part of such a legal claim;3. discuss with Mr W the legal advice it receives following 2. above, the prospects of a 
claim against the bus company succeeding, with or without CCTV footage, and the 
offer the bus company has made to split liability 50/50; and
4. following 2. and 3. above, set out clearly to Mr W what his options are, and invite him 
to decide how he wishes to proceed.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman