DRN-3015447
The complaint
Mr J complained to Portal Financial Services LLP (Portafina) that he couldnt access a lump 
sum from his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), as hed expected hed be able to do 
after the age of 60.  
What happened
In 2011, Portafina invited Mr J to review his pension arrangements. The paperwork at the 
time, recorded the following about Mr J: 
He as age 55, married with four dependent children
He was employed as a train conductor/guard with a net income of approx. £1,600 pm 
He had disposable income of approx. £100pm and no other savings or investments. 
He had debts of £4500 and an oversea property with £20,000
His attitude to risk was assessed as moderate but he didnt want to lose money
Mr J required access to his tax free cash to buy a car
He had a selected retirement age  60 and was a member of his employers 
occupation pension scheme 
Mr J held three personal pensions (one with Sun Life of Canada and two with Sanlam 
Investments and Pensions) these had a combined value of £37,866
Mr Js main objectives were listed as:
Take maximum tax-free cash now to buy a car and pay off debts
Invest the remainder to provide income at a later date/when required
Look at investment opportunities in line with his attitude to risk
Consolidate investment to achieve clearer and simpler reporting on performance
The adviser asked Mr J various questions about his views to investment risk and from his 
answers concluded he had a balanced attitude to risk. A balanced attitude to risk was, in 
short, described as:
having a moderate knowledge of financial matters
some experience of investment including risky assets such as equites and bonds
accepts some risk to get rewards
prepared to gamble if the potential rewards are high but which he might later regret
Portafina recommended a drawdown arrangement for Mr J because his priority was to 
release capital by accessing his tax free cash but he didnt need access the remaining fund 
until he reached age 60  in five years time. Portafina recommended Mr J transfer his two 
personal pensions to a SIPP, taking 25% tax-free cash. Portafina recommended Mr J invest 
the remaining funds as follows: 
     53% Raithwaites Hypa Fund
     10% Hypa Asia Fund
     17% Venture Oil International
     15% EOS Solar Energy
     5% Cash Deposit  
In 2017, Mr J wrote to Portafina because he wanted to access the funds within his SIPP. But 
Portafina said that wasnt possible because some or all of his investments were illiquid. In 
2018 Portafina advised Mr J that plans were being made to begin distribution payments from 
the illiquid investments. Operations were being sold and once finalised regular monthly 
payments could begin until the full investments had been returned.
Mr J complained to Portafina as he was still unable to access all the funds within his SIPP. 
Following the complaint, Portafina offered to safeguard Mr Js income. It said if the issues 
with payments from the SIPP hadnt been resolved by Mr Js state retirement age of 66, it 
would pay his income instead of it coming form the SIPP. Portafina said the income value 
would be based on the original expectations of fund performance and current annuity rates 
until the fund issues had been resolved when Mr J could resume the income from the SIPP.
Mr J remained unhappy so he referred his complaint to our service for review. 
Initially Portafina didnt consent to the complaint being considered because it thought it had 
been made out of time under our rules. However, another ombudsman decided the 
complaint was one that this service could consider. So one of our investigators went on to 
review the complaint. 
The investigator thought that although Mr J had complained about not being able to take 
funds from his SIPP, this was because the investments were illiquid. So the complaint could 
only be decided by considering what Mr J was or wasnt told about the liquidity of the 
investments when they were sold and whether the investments were appropriate for him. So 
using the Financial Ombudsman Services inquisitorial remit, the investigator considered 
whether the advice to transfer and the investments Portafina recommended were suitable for 
Mr Js needs at the time.
The investigator invited Portafina to comment on the suitability of its recommendation. 
Portafina said it considered the advice to transfer into drawdown was suitable because of 
Mr Js financial circumstances. And he required access to his full tax free cash earlier than 
the scheme retirement age to pay off debts and purchase a car.Having reviewed matters, the investigator determined that the advice to transfer the personal 
pensions to the SIPP wasnt unsuitable as it enabled Mr J to access his tax free cash. 
However, she didnt think the investments that Portafina had recommended for the SIPP 
were appropriate. In summary, the reasons for the investigator reaching this conclusion 
were: 
In terms of the transfer
The investigator thought that the principle reason for Mr J deciding to transfer his 
pensions was to take the maximum tax-free cash. The adviser listed the various 
options available for Mr J to do this and gave reasons why each one was appropriate 
or not for Mr Js circumstances, as well as the advantages and disadvantages of 
drawdown. Mr J had no savings to buy a car and he already had a management plan 
to pay his debts. He was renting so there was no property in the UK that he could 
release equity from. He was already in debt, so taking another loan to buy a car 
wasnt feasible as he didnt want to take on further lending or pay interest, particularly 
as he wanted to clear his debts too.
There were no details to confirm how long the existing personal pensions had been 
in force or what the income they were likely to provide. So it was unknown what Mr J 
was giving up. But given the values of the pensions were relatively small and had no 
guarantees, its likely the income would have been modest. Mr J also had an 
occupational pension with a retirement age 60 and wouldve been eligible for the 
state pension 11 years after the advice, together with potential rental income from his 
property abroad. So, as Mr Js priority was to access capital and he could afford to 
take the tax free cash from the pensions, the transfer into a drawdown arrangement 
wasnt unsuitable for Mr Js needs.
In terms of Mr Js attitude to risk
Mr J had told the investigator that he thought he had a moderate or medium attitude 
to risk but not to the extent that he would lose all his money. Portafina said Mr J has 
a moderate attitude to risk. But having considered Portafinas definition of 
moderate, as stated in the risk profiling questionnaire, the investigator wasnt 
satisfied that was appropriate. And the investigator didnt think the questionnaire 
alone was enough to assess Mr Js attitude to risk or his capacity for loss. And in the 
investigators opinion Mr Js answers indicated that he leaned more towards cautious 
than moderate. Mr J indicated that he was prepared to invest in property and had 
little experience of stock and shares and was prepared to take some risk but overall 
preferred safety.
Having considered Mr Js wider circumstances, the investigator thought that as Mr J 
had a property overseas, she could see why hed like the idea of investing in property 
given his personal experience  albeit on a smaller personal level. But he had no 
previous investment experience except for the pension plans and she wasnt satisfied 
that these plans would have given him any investment experience.
Mr J had 5 years to his selected retirement age, his state pension wouldnt be paid 
for another 11 years and he only had the railway pension to rely on in the meantime 
and potential income from his property. So, although Mr J was comfortable with the 
concept of risk, and while a moderate risk may have provided higher returns, overall, 
the investigator thought that Mr J was more likely to accept a cautious or lower level 
of risk on his pension. In terms of the investments Portafina had recommended
The investigator said that these had been recommended as Mr J wished to invest 
for growth and take an income at age 60. The paperwork described the funds 
recommended as Raithwaites and Hypa Asia funds are Unregulated Collective 
Investment Schemes (UCIS). And the paperwork explained that promotion and/or 
advice on UCIS was restricted under section 238 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act (FSMA) 2000. It then listed the risks of such schemes. It also stated 
You are not a person who is exempt under the FSMA Act PCIS orders. i.e. a 
high net worth or sophisticated investor, however you are a person for whom we 
as an independent Advisory Firm qualified to advise on UCIS investments have 
taken reasonable steps to ensure that the investment in the particular collective 
investment scheme(s) is suitable
Raithwaites Hypa fund was described as a low to medium risk, specialist 
investment in a five star hotel development designed to yield 8% pa. The hotel 
was due to open in August 2011 and expected to increase the investment value 
by 25%. It was expected to run for seven years. It would provide an income from 
August 2012. The offering memorandum document stated investments of this 
type were relatively illiquid.
Hypa Asia Fund was described as off-plan villas and hotel room development 
which will be resold once building completes. It was expected to run for three 
years and was classed as medium to high risk. The paperwork stated it would 
provide an income stream from August 2012. It would mature in three years.
The paperwork stated that both these funds had a fixed term of three to seven 
years but could be traded before that date.
Venture Oil was described as pre-purchase of crude oil. In the investment 
Analysis document, the Risk Factors  liquidity section stated the assets behind 
the investment is oil which is of a less liquid nature than some other asset 
classes  the investment period is for a fixed term of 7 years. It was described as 
a low to medium risk investment.
EOS Solar Energy was a solar power development in Cyprus selling electricity 
over a 25 year period. Initial yield was 8% pa for three years and 10% pa 
thereafter with a return of capital by 2038.
The fund document stated The content of this promotion has not been approved 
by an authorised person within the meaning of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000. Reliance on this promotion for the purpose of engaging in any 
investment activity may expose an individual to a significant risk of losing all of 
the property or other assets invested. It stated this information should only be 
communicated to high net worth individual and companies, sophisticated 
investors and self-certified investors - it was not a regulated collective investment 
scheme. It listed the risks of this investment and regarding liquidity stated This 
investment is in the asset class of shares in an unlisted company which is of a 
less liquid nature than some other asset classes [] The investment period is 28 
years with identified exit points at five-year intervals.Based on the descriptions in the documentation and fund documents, overall, the 
investigator considered the funds recommended to be speculative and only 
suitable for high net-worth or experienced investors  Mr J was neither of these. 
Raithwaites and Hypa Asia were unregulated investments and the regulator at 
the time, in its report regarding UCIS (July 2010), said it considered UCIS as 
having a high degree of volatility, illiquidity and therefore regarded as a 
speculative investment. These funds represented 63% of Mr Js portfolio but the 
regulator suggested good industry practice would be to limit investment in UCIS 
to between 3% and 5% of a portfolio.
In respect of Venture Oil and EOS Solar Energy, the investigator considered 
these were specialised investments and therefore more suited to a more 
sophisticated investor.
Although the investigator had determined that Mr J ought to have been more 
appropriately assessed as having a cautious attitude to risk, she also didnt 
consider the recommended funds would have been appropriate with taking a 
medium risk anyway. In her opinion, none of the funds recommended were 
suitable for Mr J. They were specialised and some were unregulated and 
therefore represented a higher risk than Mr J could tolerate. And although some 
of the risks were explained to Mr J, Portafina had a duty to give suitable advice. 
So, this meant it ought to have advised funds suitable for Mr Js needs, capacity 
for loss and tolerance of risk. As with any equity investment there is the risk of 
loss, however these funds provided limited diversification and provided no 
protection for Mr J under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme should 
the investments fail. So, they were highly speculative.
Portafina had stated that although Mr J wasnt a high net worth or sophisticated 
investor, because he was receiving advice from an authorised adviser this then 
meant he could invest in such projects, providing the advisor took reasonable 
steps to ensure the recommendation was suitable. However, in the investigators 
opinion Portafina didnt take enough care to consider Mr Js wider circumstances. 
Portafinas recommendation meant that 95% of his pension was invested in 
speculative investments. So, this meant the majority of his pension was exposed 
to very high risk which wasnt suitable, even at the level of risk Portafina 
assessed Mr J at. There was no safety net built in if the investment failed. Neither 
was there consideration given to alternative funds in regulated schemes. The 
selection of funds carried a potentially higher risk and didnt guarantee an overall 
greater performance in the long term. So, the attempt to get greater returns 
doesnt justify selection of higher risk assets. And given his lack of investment 
experience and knowledge, Mr J would have been relying on the adviser to 
provide him with appropriate investment advice for his pension plans.
Portafina had paid Mr J three income payments to date and offered to safeguard 
his income in the future. Whilst the investigator thought that this was likely to give 
Mr J some reassurance that he will get some of the money he expected, this 
does tie him to Portafina. If Mr J wanted to transfer his SIPP elsewhere or take 
the benefits immediately, its unlikely hed be able to do that unless the 
investments became liquid. So, Portafinas offer was unreasonable.
The investigator set out redress and provided instructions for what Portafina 
needed to do to put things right. 
Both Mr J and Portafina accepted the investigators findings so our of file was closed on the 
basis that Portafina would settle the matter in line with the investigators findings. However, some months later, Mr J contacted our service as he hadnt received settlement 
from Portafina. He asked for his complaint to reopened. 
Portafina has now also requested that the complaint is considered by an ombudsman but its 
not provided any comments to explain why it requires a final decision nor has it explained 
why its failed to settle matters in line with what it previously agreed.
 
As both parties have requested that the complaint is reopened, we have agreed to do so on 
this occasion. The complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its firstly important to explain that under the Dispute Resolution rules, set out in the 
regulators handbook, Portafina has an obligation to settle matters promptly and it has a duty 
to comply with any settlement it has agreed to. I refer Portafina to the following rule:
Complying with awards and settlements 
DISP 3 3.7.3.7.12R
A respondent must comply promptly with:
any award or direction made by the Ombudsman; and
any settlement which it agrees at an earlier stage of the procedures {my emphasis}
As can be seen from the above rule, once a firm has agreed to a settlement, it must comply 
promptly. So its extremely disappointing that Portafina failed to settle the complaint in line 
with our investigators findings. This has not only delayed the resolution of this matter for 
Mr J but its also not in line with the regulators rules.
Our service would not usually reopen matters where an agreement has been reached by 
both parties. But in this case both parties have requested the complaint is reopened, so we 
have agreed to do so on this occasion.
Having reviewed everything, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for 
the same reasons. So Im upholding this complaint on the basis that the investments 
Portafina recommended for Mr J were unsuitable. No further points or arguments were 
received in response to the investigators findings. As such, theres no outstanding issues to 
be addressed. The investigator provided a full explanation of her finding, which I agree with 
so I see little benefit to repeating the reasoning here, when no further agruemtn have been 
received to dispute what the investigator has said. So Ive only summarised the mains 
reasons for reaching this decision, those being:
Mr J had a need to access his tax free cash as he had existing debt and needed to 
buy a new car. Transferring his personal pensions to a drawdown plan enabled him 
to access his tax free cash and leave the remaining funds invested. So, the advice to 
transfer to the SIPP wasnt unsuitable. 
Mr J didnt have the capacity for loss or appetite for risk that came with a moderate 
attitude to risk; it wouldve been more appropriate for him to have been assessed as 
having a low/cautious attitude to riskThe investments Portafina recommended for Mr J were unsuitable. Two were 
unregulated and highly speculative investment. 63% of Mr Js portfolio was invested 
in UCIS, when it was considered by the regulator that even a high risk investor 
should limit investment in UCIS to between 3% and 5% of the overall portfolio. So for 
a low risk, or even moderate risk investor, these funds were completely unsuitable. In 
respect of Venture Oil and EOS Solar Energy, these were specialised investments 
and therefore more suited to a more sophisticated investor, which Mr J wasnt.
Putting things right
Fair compensation 
My aim is that Mr J should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr J would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr J's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Portafina do?
To compensate Mr J fairly, Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr J's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr J's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portafina is unable to pay the total amount into Mr J's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr J's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr J would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr J £250 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused him.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr J how much has been taken off. Portafina should give Mr J a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Portafina may require that Mr J provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portafina 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portafina totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr J wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr J's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr J into that position. It does not mean that Mr J would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr J could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr J in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman