DRN-2238165
The complaint
Mr H has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds decision to offer a partial payment for 
a claim he made under his home insurance policy due to storm damage.
Mr H bought the policy through the broker, esure Services Limited. My decision is against 
the underwriter of his policy, esure Insurance Limited. For ease, Ill refer to the insurer as 
esure in my decision.
What happened
On 9 February 2020 Mr H contacted esure to make a claim for damage to his roof, chimney 
and inside due to water ingress as a result of a storm. 
Mr H arranged for emergency temporary repairs to be carried out. esure instructed a 
surveyor to visit Mr Hs dormer bungalow to validate his claim. This took place on 18 
February 2020.
The surveyor reported that there was a valid claim for the replacement of roof ridge tiles 
which had come away as a result of the storm and for damage to an internal ceiling. 
However, based on his remaining findings, esure said it wouldnt meet the costs to replace 
the flat felt roof of Mr Hs bungalow. It said there was evidence of wear and tear and 
previous repairs. The surveyor said the felt of the roof had exceeded its natural life span by 
some years. And esure said it wouldnt meet the costs for repairs to two ground floor rooms 
as the surveyor reported no sign of water staining or recent damage caused by water 
ingress. 
esure said there was no evidence of storm related damage to the chimney. Photos show 
previous poor mortar repairs, but nothing to show impact related damage from debris from 
the flat roof as Mr H described.
esure told Mr H that based on the surveyors findings, it would meet Mr Hs claim in part: for 
repairs to the damaged ridge tiles and an internal ceiling totalling £531.93. esure said it 
could have declined the claim for damage to the internal ceiling, but it covered this because 
the surveyor said the roof ridge tiles had blown off as a result of the storm. 
esure said the bulk of the emergency repair costs were due to the flat roof which it said 
wasnt covered. But as a goodwill gesture, esure offered to pay 50% of the £240 Mr H paid 
for emergency repairs. 
esure said it hasnt paid anything to Mr H yet as its unsure if Mr H wants to still claim against 
his policy. After deducting the excess, the value of the claim will be £276.93.
Mr H said the water damage to the ground floor rooms had dried out by the time the 
surveyor attended, but had been caused by the storm. He was unhappy that esure wouldnt 
consider paying toward the costs to repair the flat roof and damage to the chimney. 
Our investigator initially thought esure should consider the claim for damage to Mr Hs 
chimney. But on further review and evidence from esure, he changed his mind. The 
investigator thought esure had acted reasonably as there was no evidence of storm related 
damage to the chimney. 
Mr H didnt agree. Hes unhappy that his complaint about his contact with the home 
emergency provider hasnt been addressed. Our investigator has passed this complaint to 
the broker esure Services Limited. As the underwriter of the Home Emergency cover isnt 
esure Insurance Limited, it doesnt form part of my decision. 
Mr H said esure caused undue delay dealing with his claim. The investigator didnt think 
esure had caused any delay as it dealt with Mr Hs claim within a month of him contacting it. 
Mr H wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We ask three questions when considering storm damage claims to help decide whether an 
insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable way. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to   have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
esure accepts that storm conditions occurred when the damage was reported by Mr H. And 
the damage being claimed for is consistent with damage that a storm typically causes. The 
felt from the flat roof was blown off along with roof ridge tiles. 
However, photos of Mr Hs roof show its condition with patches of previous repair. The 
surveyor reported the following:
Flat roof at the back of the house runs across the entire width of the house, built up 
felt and there is evidence of a number of repairs and the felt is very old and there is 
paint on a few areas, the felt is showing through and is perished. The insured has 
been in the risk address 19 years and this area has not been replaced in this time, 
the roof is well past its life span. The edging has come away around the back of the 
house.
In relation to the damage on the roof, he commented:
There are ridge tiles that have blown off the roof and these have come off - even 
though the mortar has failed - there has been a storm event therefore there is cover 
for replacement of the ridge tiles that have blown off.
While the surveyor didnt comment on the chimney in his initial report, when Mr H challenged 
this the surveyor said there was no storm related damage showing to the chimney. Photos of 
the chimney show previous mortar repairs, but no evidence of storm related damage. Mr H provided an estimate from a roofer to carry out repairs to the roof. The roofer 
commented:
Because of the repairs to the roof we would not be prepared to patch up the felt and 
have therefore produced an estimate for a complete roof covering
Under the general terms of Mr Hs policy with esure, it says Mr H must keep the building in a 
good state of repair. This is a common term in all insurance policies. So based on all of the 
information available, I think esures decision to decline Mr Hs claim for repairs to the felt flat 
roof and chimney was reasonable. I dont think the storm was the dominant cause of the 
damage to the flat roof. I think the storm highlighted an existing wear and tear issue. 
I think esure dealt with Mr Hs claim within a reasonable timescale and I havent seen any 
evidence of delay. 
I understand Mr H will be disappointed with my decision. But I think esure dealt with Mr Hs 
claim reasonably and in line with the policy. Its up to Mr H to decide whether he wants to 
accept esures offer or withdraw his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman