DRN-3044023
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) continued 
charging her excessive amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
  
What happened
 Mrs M complained about the overdraft charges Halifax applied when she was facing 
financial difficulties. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mrs M was dissatisfied she 
referred the complaint to our service.
Mrs Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. Halifax offered to refund some 
of the charges from May 2018, but our adjudicator thought that Halifax ought to have 
realised that Mrs M was experiencing financial difficulty by November 2017 and so shouldnt 
have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Halifax didnt 
respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Halifax acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from November 
2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mrs M was in no position to sustainably 
repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, it was clear that Mrs M was having difficulty managing her money. Mrs Ms 
statements show that she had a number of returned direct debits and hadnt maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time In these circumstances, it ought to have been 
apparent that Mrs M was at a significant risk of experiencing financial difficulty and so should 
have been treated with forbearance rather than having had even more interest, fees and 
charges added to her overdraft. 
Mrs M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Halifax 
didnt treat Mrs M fairly and she lost out because of what Halifax did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 1 November 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Mrs M to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ms 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft from 1 November 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Bank of Scotland plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman