DRN-3616251
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Brightside Insurance Services Limited (Brightside) has treated her 
unfairly in relation to information about her no claims discount (NCD).
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mrs M took out a Company A policy through Brightside (as a broker) in October 
2019. She subsequently made a claim on the policy. 
The claim was classed as non-fault and Mrs M says she was told the full NCD would 
be re-instated as a result.
Mrs M says Brightside has since given her inconsistent and conflicting information 
about the NCD. So, she complained and said this impacted her quotes elsewhere 
due to the potential 0 NCD.
Brightside agreed that it incorrectly gave her a quote that reflected no NCD due to 
human error. It offered her £25 in compensation for its error and apologised.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. He found Mrs 
M had been given various incorrect information about her NCD. He said Brightside 
must issue Mrs M with confirmation of her NCD of two years that she can pass on to 
her new insurer, and he directed it to increase its compensation to £100.
Brightside didnt provide a response, so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
For the avoidance of doubt, I am only considering this complaint about Brightside in 
its capacity as a broker and the information it has given to Mrs M. Any complaints 
about the related claim will be dealt with separately.
Brightside has provided Mrs M with information about her NCD that has been 
incorrect on several occasions. It has given her figures of 0, 3 and 5 years on 
different occasions. Since the complaint has come to this Service, Brightside has 
confirmed that the actual figure is 2 years.
So, its clear to me that Brightside has failed to give Mrs M clear, fair and not 
misleading information as wed expect.
As a result, Mrs M had given a figure of 0 NCD when approaching a new insurer. And 
this has likely led to an impact in the premiums shes paid. It seems to me that 
Brightside providing confirmation of the actual NCD period will put this right as Mrs M 
will be able to pass this on to the new insurer.
However, I also recognise that being repeatedly given inaccurate information will 
have been frustrating for Mrs M. Mrs M has unnecessarily had to enter into a back 
and forth with Brightside to establish information that shouldve been available to her 
immediately. And she will subsequently need to contact her new insurer to correct 
her NCD information  a further unnecessary step she will have to take. So Ive 
agreed with our Investigator that £25 isnt sufficient compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Brightside Insurance Services Limited must:
provide Mrs M with confirmation of her NCD as 2 years;
pay Mrs M £100, in total, as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman