DRN-1905110
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about how Fairmead Insurance Limited has handled a claim they 
made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O discovered there was a leak under the flooring in their kitchen. They made a 
claim on their home insurance policy, once the leak had been traced and fixed. 
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to deal with the claim. There were several contractors 
involved, including a drying company, heating engineers etc. Mr and Mrs O experienced little 
communication from the loss adjuster and there were long periods of delay in works taking 
place. Fairmead was unable to find suitable alternative accommodation for Mr and Mrs O. 
So it agreed to pay them disturbance allowance for the duration of the repairs.
Mr and Mrs O werent happy with the service theyd had from Fairmead, so they made a 
complaint. Fairmead acknowledged thered been poor service and that thered been periods 
of delay. It offered Mr and Mrs O £150 compensation for their trouble and upset.
Once the property was dry, repairs could begin. But Mr and Mrs O werent happy with the 
standard of the repairs. They believed the floor hadnt been levelled properly; they 
experienced issues with some of the contractors; they felt the contractors had caused 
damage to their hallway and a breakfast bar and they still had very little contact with the loss 
adjuster. They also felt theyd had to project manage the repairs themselves. The claim had 
been ongoing for several months, when theyd initially been told itd be a few weeks. They 
made a new complaint to Fairmead.
Fairmead acknowledged Mr and Mrs O hadnt received the level of service they shouldve 
and the lack of communication had caused unnecessary delays. It didnt accept that its 
contractors had damaged the hallway flooring though. It offered Mr and Mrs O £200 further 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs O remained unhappy with the service theyd received and the way their claim 
had been handled. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Fairmead had handled Mrs Os claim fairly. She felt theyd 
needed to effectively project manage the claim and had experienced unnecessary delays. 
She felt Fairmead should appoint an independent surveyor to assess the quality of the 
repairs and whether the damage to the hallway flooring was down to Fairmead. She also 
recommended Fairmead should pay Mr and Mrs O a total of £500 compensation, taking into 
account the £350 itd already offered. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt feel £500 compensation was enough. They said this was because of the 
time theyd been without a kitchen; the poor workmanship; the time theyd had to take off 
work and the impact on Mrs Os health. They also pointed out that had they taken up the alternative accommodation theyd been offered, rather than take disturbance allowance; the 
claim wouldve cost Fairmead far more.
Fairmead agreed to pay the additional compensation. It also appointed an independent 
surveyor to inspect Mr and Mrs Os property. This inspection took place and the surveyor 
provided a report.
Fairmead has since dealt with a new complaint about the handling of Mr and Mrs Os claim 
following the independent surveyors report. Its explained the reasons why its been unable 
to progress the claim since that period and suggested a way forward. 
I need to make it clear that I have not looked into the new complaint here. My decision is 
limited to considering whether Mr and Mrs O have been treated fairly up to the point they 
brought their complaint to us. If Mr and Mrs O remain unhappy with Fairmeads final 
response letter of 6 May 2020; theyll need to bring a new complaint to us about any new 
issues that I havent considered here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that a total of £500 compensation for Fairmeads handling of the claim is fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
Both Mr and Mrs O and Fairmead have provided me with detailed information about this 
complaint. Ive summarised the background to this complaint above, rather than focusing on 
each individual issue. But Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs O that Ive very carefully 
considered everything theyve sent us when reaching my decision on their complaint.  
Its clear Fairmead has made mistakes in the way it handled Mr and Mrs Os claim. There 
were substantial periods of delay in the claim being progressed; which seems largely down 
to a real lack of communication from the two loss adjusters who were supposed to be 
dealing with it. There was a delay due to the fact a contractor said work couldnt begin 
without an asbestos certificate being sent in  which Mr and Mrs O had provided a few 
weeks beforehand. It looks like Mr and Mrs O had to call and chase Fairmeads loss 
adjusters repeatedly to move things along.
I think it was wholly unreasonable for Mr and Mrs O to be effectively left in the position of 
needing to manage their own claim. I dont doubt this caused them additional stress at an 
already stressful time. I can appreciate how frustrating it mustve been constantly having to 
chase up Fairmead and its contractors to get things moving. Mrs O says this has had an 
impact on her health and Im sorry to hear that.
Mr and Mrs O were also left without kitchen facilities for several months. Theyve told us 
theyve had to rely on others for things like washing clothes and they had to wash up things 
in their bathroom sink. Again, this mustve been very stressful for them.
So I dont think the £350 Fairmead had offered Mr and Mrs O before they brought their 
complaint to us is enough. But I also have to bear in mind that all claims, especially large 
and complex claims like this one, do cause a degree of inconvenience. While I dont think 
Fairmead has progressed things as it shouldve done, some disruption was unfortunately 
unavoidable.
Ive also borne in mind that Fairmead did offer to put Mr and Mrs O in alternative 
accommodation. I appreciate the reasons why they told us the properties they were offered werent appropriate for them. But Fairmead has been paying Mr and Mrs O a disturbance 
allowance to compensate them for the loss of their kitchen. While I accept Fairmead 
mightve paid out more for alternative accommodation, Mr and Mrs O chose not to pursue 
this option. They chose to stay in their home. 
Mr and Mrs O might not now make the same choice with the benefit of hindsight and given 
the delays in getting the claim finished and the works done. But I dont think I can fairly tell 
Fairmead to pay them more compensation because they chose not to go into alternative 
accommodation for the duration of the claim. 
This means that overall; I think a total award of £500  an additional £150 on top of the £350 
its already offered - for Mr and Mrs Os trouble and upset is fair. I think it recognises the 
poor service theyd received up until the point they made their complaint to us. 
Im pleased Fairmead appointed an independent surveyor to inspect Mr and Mrs Os 
property. I think this was a reasonable response and its what I wouldve directed Fairmead 
to do in these particular circumstances if it hadnt already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Os 
complaint.
I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs O a total amount of £500 
compensation for their trouble and upset. Fairmead may deduct £350 from this award if it 
has already paid Mr and Mrs O this amount of compensation.
Fairmead must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and 
Mrs O accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*If Fairmead considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs O how much its taken off. It should also 
give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman