DRN-2805808
The complaint
Ms F complains how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has handled her claim for 
subsidence under her commercial property owners policy. 
What happened
Ageas has appointed a contractor to manage the claim. But for ease anything the contractor 
has said on behalf of Ageas will be referred to as Ageas as the underwriter of the policy, 
unless otherwise stated.
Ms F has complained about delays, loss of rent claim being declined, and incorrect 
information given about the diminution of market value (DMV).
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
In October 2018, Ms F reported cracking on the extension of her rental property to 
Ageas.
Ageas appointed a contractor and it issued a report in December 2018, which said 
the subsidence was caused by clay shrinkage due to nearby vegetation. The 
vegetation was reported to be on both Ms Fs and her neighbours property.  
In January 2019, Ageas contacted the neighbours to remove the tree, however, 
they wanted proof their tree was implicated. So, an arborist was appointed. Its 
report was completed in June 2019 and a further request to remove the tree was 
made to the neighbours.
The tree on Ms Fs property was removed in December 2019. However, the 
neighbours tree was delayed until May 2020 as they were concerned about heave 
if the tree was removed. 
In January 2020, Ms F told Ageas that her tenant had moved out due to the 
subsidence damage. It told her she could raise a claim for loss of rent.
In June 2020, Ms F received an offer to sell her property to a developer. She 
contacted Ageas to check if she could continue with the claim once the property was 
sold. Ageas confirmed she could and said that they could consider a claim for DMV. 
Ageas required two valuations to show how much the property would be worth if it 
wasnt affected by subsidence. It also reiterated that Ms F could raise a claim for loss 
of rent. 
Following the valuations, Ms F was informed by the contractor that Ageas had 
agreed a DMV of around £70,000. This was incorrect as the settlement Ageas had 
agreed was for the cost of repairs - £24,916.44. Realising its mistake, a few days 
later Ms F was told the correct figures. Ms F says during this time she had put down 
an offer on a property and as a result of being told the wrong figures she had to pull 
out of the sale. 
Overall Ageas didnt think it had caused any avoidable delays, it did agree Ms F had 
been given wrong information about the DMV initially. But it said it quickly rectified 
the mistake and it wouldnt increase the DMV settlement. It also said it hadnt been 
given sufficient evidence to support the loss of rent claim.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She recommended Ageas pay Ms F £250 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. However, she didnt feel Ageas had 
done anything wrong in the declination of the loss of rent. Ageas has accepted our 
investigators view but Ms F hasnt. She feels the compensation doesnt reflect all 
the delays and feels the delays forced her to sell her property. And she remains 
unhappy with the error made on the DMV offer and feels the declination of the loss 
of rent is unfair.
So, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delays
Having reviewed the timeline on this claim Im in agreement with our investigator that overall 
this claim was moved along as I expect it to. I appreciate for Ms F this mayve at times felt 
like not a lot was happening. But it isnt uncommon in subsidence claims for it to take time, 
especially when other parties are involved for example neighbours, local council etc. But I 
would expect Ageas to progress the claim promptly and fairly and keep Ms F updated. 
I understand Ms F feels Ageas caused delay in contacting her neighbour and thought this 
wasnt done until June 2019. From looking at the file I can see why Ms F thinks this as this is 
what she was told in a letter from Ageas on 10 February 2020. However, this is incorrect, I 
can see first contact was made with the neighbour in January 2019. The neighbours 
understandably wanted evidence that it was their tree causing the problems. So, Ageas 
appointed the arborist in February 2019 to enable the claim to progress. I havent seen any 
avoidable delay up to this point. 
It took around four months for the arborist to arrange a visit and issue its report. Ms F wasnt 
kept updated of progress in this period and it doesnt look like Ageas was proactive in 
chasing for an update. So, I consider there was a small delay here and Ageas couldve been 
more efficient.
Ms Fs vegetation was removed in December 2019 but due to the neighbours concerns 
about heave their vegetation wasnt removed until May 2020. 
Repairs werent started immediately as the building needs to settle before repairs begin. This 
is common in subsidence claims and I think it was fair for Ageas to give a reasonable period 
to ensure the movement has stopped. 
Loss of rent
Ageas has declined the claim as it has said Ms F has not provided enough information to 
confirm the tenancy and how much rent she wouldve received during this period. 
Ms F has said there wasnt a formal tenancy agreement in place and there werent regular 
payments as the tenant advised her that the property was uninhabitable. Shes provided 
previous bank statements and a previous tenancy agreement and proof of a one-off payment 
from the tenant before they vacated the property in November 2019.Ive looked at what the policy covers and its loss of rent receivable. The definition of rent 
receivable is:
The money paid or payable to you (including ground rent, service charges and any other 
income) for accommodation and services provided as landlord at the premises.
The policy is to cover sudden loss of rent in the event of a claim, from what Ms F has 
provided so far doesnt prove there was a tenancy in place when the subsidence occurred, 
or how much Ms F has lost out on. So, based on the evidence Ageas has currently Im 
persuaded its fairly declined the claim. However, if Ms F can provide any further evidence 
then I would expect Ageas to reconsider its decision.
DMV
Ive considered the policy wording, it says: 
The amount we will pay following insured damage is the cost of:
a rebuilding, or
b repair of the damaged portion of the building 
to a condition equal to but not better or more extensive than its condition immediately prior to 
the damage (less a reduction for wear and tear).
If you decide not to rebuild or repair the building (and we do not exercise our option to 
rebuild or repair), the amount we will pay is the diminution in its market value immediately 
following the damage but not exceeding the amount that would have been payable if the 
building had been rebuilt or repaired.
The settlement Ageas has offered is the cost of the repairs and this is in line with the policy 
terms as set out above. But Ms F has said she was told on the phone that it was a 
straightforward claim and that she could go ahead with the sale safe in the knowledge that 
she was entitled to compensation for the true loss. Ive listened to the calls Ms F had with 
Ageas and Im satisfied that in both calls Ms F was informed there were a number of factors 
to consider but the settlement is based on the repair costs, so I dont agree she was 
informed shed get the total loss of around £70,000. 
But, a few weeks later after Ms F had exchanged on her property, Ageas contractor did give 
Ms F the wrong information and said shed be getting a payment for £70,000. 
It isnt in dispute that Ms F was given the wrong information. And I was pleased to see that 
Ageas contractor were quick to act on rectifying the mistake, which is what Id expect of it. 
However, when, as is the case here, a financial business gives a customer wrong 
information, it must take steps to put it right by putting the customer back in the position he 
or she would have been in had the mistake not been made. But that does not mean it must 
proceed as if the wrong information was right, it means it must proceed as if the right 
information had been given. And it must compensate the customer for any financial and non-
financial losses that result. 
Ms F says she had put in an offer on a property and had to pull out of the sale, but from what 
Ive seen there was no financial loss. However, I can understand the misinformation caused 
Ms F stress and upset in the circumstances. Especially as she was in a position where she 
has told us she felt so stressed, that she felt she had to sell her property, so this error had 
more of an impact on her. So, I think its fair for Ageas to compensate Ms F for this mistake. 
Putting things rightIn summary, I have identified a slight delay in the handling of this claim, and Ms F was given 
incorrect information regarding the DMV. I therefore instruct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay 
Ms F £250 for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman