DRN-3713527
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Miss B held with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI). Shes 
unhappy that BOI:
wouldnt extend the mortgage term for a third time when it was approaching its expiry 
date at the end of December 2021; 
encouraged her to pay what she could when she could during a phone call shortly before 
the expiry date without warning her shed incur an early repayment charge (ERC);
sent a redemption statement by post when shed asked for it by email; and
didnt make a return phone call it had agreed to make in January 2022.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss B and BOI. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all parties, 
and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Miss B being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, rounding 
any figures involved, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Miss Bs mortgage term had already been extended in 2017, and 2019. The extension 
agreed in 2019 meant the mortgage was due for repayment by 31 December 2021. At the 
same time, the mortgage was on a fixed rate deal that meant an ERC was payable if the 
mortgage was repaid on or before the same date. Miss B wanted a further term extension, 
but this time BOI declined the request. During a phone conversation in December 2021, it 
was agreed that Miss B and BOI would have a further conversation in early January 2022 to 
discuss what other options might be available. 
Miss B then requested a redemption statement be emailed to her; BOI sent the statement, 
but by post rather than email, for security reasons. In the last few days of December 2021, 
using funds she raised from external sources at short notice, Miss B made a number of lump 
sum payments to the mortgage. These sums, aggregated together, corresponded to the 
figure shed been given in the December 2021 phone call as being the current outstanding 
balance.
BOI didnt call Miss B on 11 January 2022, but it wrote to her on 20 January 2022 to say that 
by paying down the mortgage during the fixed rate period, Miss B had incurred an ERC. 
This, combined with the contractual redemption fee meant there was a shortfall of just under 
£1,200. Miss B thinks this was unfair; our investigator didnt agree, and so the case has 
come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
My starting point here is that Miss B borrowed money from BOI, and under the terms of her 
agreement with BOI, was due to repay the money on or before 31 December 2021. No one 
is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before, theyre not 
automatically entitled to more time to repay the debt after it has fallen due. But a lender must 
treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term extension, that means 
assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria and being mindful of what 
mortgage regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not 
generally made public.
Here BOI was being asked to consider another term extension for broadly the same reason 
it had agreed previous extensions; that is, to give Miss B more time to renovate a second 
property and sell it. Lenders arent required to wait indefinitely to be repaid, and when BOI 
found itself being presented with the same strategy that had already failed to materialise 
twice, it said no. That decision was a commercial judgement for BOI to make. Insofar as it 
wasnt inconsistent with the banks lending policy or current regulatory requirements, theres 
no reasonable grounds for me to second-guess BOIs judgement. I fully understand that 
Miss B found the decision unwelcome, but it wasnt unfair, and that is the test I have to 
apply. 
That brings me to what happened in December 2021. Miss B and BOI have different 
recollections of what was said in the phone call on 15 December 2021; however, we have a 
recording of the call. The investigator has sent the recording to Miss B to listen to as well, 
but shes told us the file format is incompatible with her device. However, there are apps 
available to overcome that. Overall, Im satisfied Miss B has been given the opportunity to 
listen to the call. 
Miss Bs recollection is that the call handler encouraged her to pay what she could to bring 
the balance down before the expiry date, but didnt warn of the ERC that would arise if she 
did. The investigator didnt hear the call handler say anything to that effect in the call 
recording, and neither did I. What I heard is Miss B tell the call handler she had no other 
provision for repaying the mortgage at that point other than finishing the second property or 
inheriting money from the estate of her aunt, who was seriously ill and likely to pass away in 
the near future. 
When BOI said neither scenario would be considered, Miss B then said she would try to 
beg, steal or borrow money to repay the mortgage but that wouldnt happen until shed 
returned from a four-week trip abroad that was due to start the next day. That statement, and 
the timing of it, rather rules out any reason for BOI to think Miss B was planning to pay 
money off the mortgage in December 2021, at least at that stage of the call.Later in the call, Miss B asked if there was any benefit to her making lump sum payments 
before she went way. The question was asked in the context of how any proposal that might 
be discussed in January being would be viewed more favourably. The call handlers reply 
was: Any payment you make will reduce the balance on the account. I would encourage any 
payment but I cant say that would impact on our decision at the moment. If you are able 
reduce the balance, Id encourage you to do that anyway.
Miss B then alludes to the fact that she cant pay more than 10% off the balance in any 
event. Thats a direct reference to the provision in the ERC clause that allows a borrower to 
pay some money off the balance without incurring an ERC. What that tells me is that Miss B 
was aware of the ERC clause without having to be reminded of it by the call-handler. Thered 
have been no need for the call handler but mention the risk of incurring an ERC in a 
conversation where Miss B talked of paying a maximum of 10% off the balance. What the 
call handler did then says was: I cant force you to make payment; that is entirely up to you.
All of that aside, the mere fact that BOI suggested a further discussion in January 2022, to 
see what options there might be, seems to me a clear indication that whilst there would be 
no formal term extension, BOI was prepared to be flexible with a grace period, rather than 
insist Miss B clear the mortgage by the expiry date. Its also consistent with Miss B saying 
during the 15 December 2021 call that she wouldnt be able to arrange anything substantive 
until she returned from her overseas trip. The agreement to set up a call for 11 January 2022 
was reached after a discussion about what would be convenient to Miss B, and with the 
express intention of reviewing any options Miss B might have come up within the interim. But 
the call handler made it clear nothing was promised. 
There was nothing in what BOI said during the 15 December 2021 call that could, by any 
reasonable analysis, constitute coercion or pressure. Miss B chose to pay down the 
mortgage balance in December 2021 of her own devices; whats more Im satisfied she did 
so despite knowing that paying more than 10% off the balance would result in an ERC. 
Miss B was perfectly entitled to do that. I wouldnt for a moment imply she should not have 
done so, and nothing of that nature should be inferred. But it was her choice to do that rather 
than wait to see what might transpire in the follow-up call in January 2022, by which time not 
only the mortgage term but the ERC period too would have expired.
Lastly, the 15 December 2021 call concludes with Miss B asking how much she owes; the 
call handler gives her a figure but says very clearly its the outstanding balance, but not a 
redemption figure.
Its now known that the January 2022 call didnt happen. Miss B is unhappy BOI didnt make 
that call, but events had by then overtaken that arrangement, by virtue of Miss B having 
chosen to pay the balance down. I cant fairly find that not making the call in the changed 
circumstances amounted to fair treatment. Ive thought about how things might have turned 
out differently if BOI had called Miss B in January. In all likelihood, all that would have 
happened in such a call is that BOI would have told Miss B what it told her in its letter of 
20 January 2022: i.e. that there was a shortfall that needed repaying. In that context, its 
hard to see any detriment to Miss B from the call not taking place.
Lastly, theres the matter of the redemption statement; Miss B requested it via her phone, 
asking that it be sent electronically. BOIs security policy doesnt provide for that to happen 
so instead it arranged for the statement to be sent by post. Having no regulatory power 
means its not my role to say whether BOI should have a different security policy regarding 
the issue of redemption statements.But its apparent that Miss B made the lump sum payments before shed received the 
statement. In other words, having requested information, Miss B then acted before shed 
received that information. Again, no criticism is implied, and none should be inferred, but it 
means she paid a sum that she knew wasnt a redemption figure. I cant find that Miss B 
suffered detriment as a result of BOI posting rather than emailing the redemption statement.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman