DRN-3739451
The complaint
Mr P is a sole trader. He complains that Barclays Bank Plc treated him unfairly when it
declined his application for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
Mr P told us:
He started his sole trader business, C, in January 2020 and applied to Barclays for a
BBL, which the bank declined as it said it didnt believe he was a business.
He gave Barclays evidence to show that he was a trading business before March
2020, but the bank still said he didnt meet the BBL Scheme criteria.
Barclays told us:
Mr P told the bank that he didnt have any proof that he was trading prior to 1 March
2020 as he hadnt had any sales before that date.
It had reviewed the information that Mr P had supplied as proof of trading but it
wasnt satisfied that this showed he was trading on 1 March 2020 and met the
Scheme criteria, so it didnt progress Mr Ps application.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said:
Mr P had needed a business relationship with Barclays before he could apply for a
BBL.
There were checks that a lender would undertake to ensure a borrower met the BBL
eligibility criteria, and Mr P hadnt met the banks checks.
Based on the evidence Mr P had provided, he thought Barclays decision to decline
his BBL application was reasonable as he couldnt see Mr P was actively trading
prior to 1 March 2020.
Mr P didnt agree. He said:
Barclays told him that it didnt think he was trading, but he was a trading business as
at 1 March 2020 and the evidence hed provided shouldve been sufficient. He didnt
have any more evidence due to the national lockdown and regardless of what he
could provide he was entitled to the BBL under the Scheme rules.
The Scheme criteria didnt say that banks could carry out checks, and he was able to 
self-certify his circumstances  so he thought Barclays should accept what hed 
declared.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 September 2022. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Applicants had to meet certain criteria to be eligible for a BBL, which included the
requirement to have been carrying on business on 1 March 2020. In addition to the 
Scheme
criteria, there were checks that had to be made - with some discretion for lenders to 
have the final say as to whether to approve the loan. Barclays has told us that its 
process was to discuss potential applications before submission, so it could ensure 
applicants met the Scheme criteria before they applied.
Mr P says that the Scheme rules didnt say that a lender could carry out checks. But 
that isnt the case. This is confirmed on the British Business Banks website under 
the section What checks will I be subject to? where it explains that applications 
were subject to customer fraud, Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Know Your 
Customer (KYC) checks. As Barclays couldnt verify that Mr P was trading prior to 1 
March 2020 and therefore met the Scheme requirements, it didnt think he was 
eligible to make a BBL application.
I think this was reasonable because Mr Ps bank statements only showed one 
transaction related to his business going through his account, and he had provided 
very little in the way of additional evidence to demonstrate his trading activity. I 
recognise that Mr P said his social media screen shots showed that he was 
undertaking business activity and that should be sufficient. But Mr P didnt have a 
business account showing any other transactions or a tax return showing what hed 
earnt, and the bank is able to request additional documents such as these for it to be 
satisfied that a business was actively trading  not just established prior to 1 March 
2020.
Even if I accept that Mr Ps business was established and trading prior to 1 March 
2020, under the BBL Scheme, more than 50% of the business income needed to be 
derived from trading activity. Mr P said that his projected turnover was expected to be 
£128,000. There was no issue with him using a projection, as businesses that were 
established after 1 January 2019 could use projected turnover figures when applying 
for a BBL. However, Barclays wasnt obligated to accept any figure provided by a 
borrower and was able to undertake checks to verify the information it had been 
given.
In this case, the only business transaction Mr P had been able to provide evidence 
of, was for £100 - which didnt match the turnover hed said he was going to make - 
even if it was multiplied on a weekly basis. And as Mr P told the bank he didnt have 
any other evidence to substantiate the information hed given, Barclays didnt think 
he was eligible to apply under the BBL Scheme  I think this was reasonable.
Mr P says that Barclays told him his BBL application wouldnt be progressed as it 
didnt think he was a business, but I havent seen any evidence thats the case. 
Rather, it declined to progress his application as the evidence hed supplied to show 
hed been trading prior to 1 March 2020 wasnt sufficient. However, even if Mr P was 
given an incorrect reason for the banks decision initially, it then gave him the correct 
reason when he complained.Mr P has told us that he wasnt able to provide further information to show that he 
was trading prior to 1 March 2020, due to the nature of his business which was 
affected by the national lockdown and that hed only started trading in January 2020. 
I acknowledge Mr Ps frustration that Barclays didnt accept the documents he 
provided as proof of trading. 
However, Barclays wasnt obligated to accept any information provided and it had 
criteria that it would accept to support a BBL application and Mr P wasnt able to 
provide this. The bank has discretion under the Scheme to decide what documents it 
would accept as evidence and based on the information that it requested from Mr P - 
I think this was reasonable.
I recognise that Mr P feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my 
decision. But based on everything Ive seen I dont think Barclays did anything wrong 
in how it assessed his application.
I invited Mr P and Barclays to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Barclays accepted the decision and said it had 
nothing further to add. Mr P didnt say whether he agreed or disagreed with the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as Barclays responded to say it accepted the decision and had nothing 
further to add and Mr P hasnt responded with any further information, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P trading as C 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman