DRN-4124354
The complaint
Miss F complains about the standard of repairs Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd 
(Fortegra) arranged following damage to her cars front bumper, under her motor insurance 
policy.    
What happened
Miss F contacted Fortegra when a gate hit her front bumper. This caused minor damage and 
Fortegra arranged for a repair to be carried out. Miss F says the parking sensors on the 
bumper became very sensitive after this. The car was relatively new to her, and she didnt 
initially link the repairs Fortegra arranged with the sensor issue. 
After around six weeks Miss F contacted Fortegra to report the problem. She says she told it 
she didnt want the same repairer to carry out the remedial work. Miss F says she was told 
that was fine and someone would call her back. She says she was willing at this point to 
have another mobile repairer carry out the repairs. But the next day she received a call from 
the same repairer looking to make an appointment to rectify its work. 
Miss F says a friend works for a different mobile repairer. This friend told her the repairs 
were substandard in both application and the product used. After the same repairer had 
called her back, Miss F contacted a garage. She says it advised the repair had affected the 
front bumper sensors. Its view was the bumper should be replaced and the sensors 
recalibrated in line with the manufacturers guidelines.
In response to Miss Fs complaint Fortegra highlights that she didnt raise an issue until 
around six weeks after the repairs. At this point it says its repairer offered to send a senior 
technician to assess the issues, but Miss F refused. It says the repairs were under warranty 
and it expects its repairer to be able to correct any issues with its work. 
Fortegra says its repairer offered Miss F its apologies and said it would arrange for 
rectification of the issue should she agree to this. It says its repairer contacted Miss F within 
three working days of her contacting it, which it thinks was reasonable. 
Miss F didnt want Fortegras repairer to rectify the issue with the sensors given the 
information shed received from her garage and from her technician friend. So, she asked 
our service to consider the matter. Our investigator upheld her complaint in part. Because of 
a poor standard of repairs and the inconvenience and frustration this caused Miss F, she 
says Fortegra should pay her £150 compensation. 
But our investigator didnt think Fortegra had treated Miss F unfairly by offering to rectify the 
issue with the sensor. She says its reasonable that it should be given the opportunity to put 
things right. 
Fortegra responded to say it didnt agree that £150 compensation was warranted. Miss F 
responded to say she didnt want Fortegras repairer to carry out rectification work. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Miss Fs complaint in part. I understand this will come 
as a disappointment to her. But I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see from Miss Fs policy terms that she has cover for accidental damage to her vehicle. 
She made a claim in August 2022 regarding the damage caused to her front bumper. The 
records say this was due to a gate that flew back and hit the car, whilst driving through it, 
onto [sic] driveway.
From the images supplied the damage was limited to a small area of the front bumper. The 
photos show an area of paint that had been affected as a result of the collision with the gate. 
The records show arrangements were made for the repairs to be completed at the beginning 
of September 2022. Miss F then contacted Fortegra again around six weeks later in October. 
I can see from the photos supplied that there is a layer of paint, or other material, 
encroaching onto the vehicles parking sensors. I acknowledge Miss Fs comments that this 
is the cause of the sensor issue, which she says is confirmed by her technician friend and 
the garage she visited. 
Ive read the email Miss F received from the garage. It says:
Vehicle has had smart repair to front bumper which has affected the front sensors. Please 
see [manufacturer] guidance on repairing bumpers with short range radar. I am not confident 
that there are only 2 coats of paint on the front bumper and also sensors are malfunctioning. 
I would recommend bumper replacement and radar/adas recalibration to ensure the safety 
of all vehicle systems. 
Significant build up of paint materials or body filler around front parking sensor.
Based on this evidence the issue with the sensors has been caused by the repairs arranged 
by Fortegra. I acknowledge Miss Fs comments that the issue started after the repairs, but 
she didnt immediately link the two. It mustve been frustrating that the sensors were 
activating repeatedly, this must also have been very distracting when driving. I note Miss Fs 
comments that she limited her use of the car to short journeys due to this. 
The log notes provided by Fortegra dont provide much detail of what was discussed when 
Miss F first reported the issue. But I have no reason to doubt her testimony that she asked 
for an alternative repairer to rectify the defective work. This didnt happen. Rather the same 
repairer called Miss F back to arrange the repairs. Fortegra says it must allow its repairer to 
first attempt to rectify any substandard work. I dont disagree with this. But it didnt 
acknowledge Miss Fs concerns when she first told it she wasnt confident to have the same 
repairer attend again. 
We expect an insurer to carry out repairs correctly and to a good standard. I can understand 
why Miss F has concerns that Fortegras repairer wouldnt be able to do this. Particularly 
given the initial substandard repairs, the information she received from the garage she spoke 
to and her technician friend. But I do think its reasonable to allow Fortegras appointed 
repairer to first send a senior technician to assess and hopefully rectify the problem. If this is 
unsuccessful Miss F can refer back to Fortegra for further action to be taken. But I dont think 
its reasonable to require it to pay for repairs at another repairer prior to this. In summary I dont think Fortegra treated Miss F fairly when its contractors substandard 
repairs resulted in an ongoing issue with her parking sensors. Also when not recognising her 
request to use an alternative repairer initially. It should pay her £150 to acknowledge these 
points. But in the first instance its reasonable that it sends a senior technician to assess and 
rectify the problem.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Fortegra Europe Insurance Company 
Ltd should:
pay Miss F £150 for the inconvenience and frustration it caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman