DRN-3817230
The complaint
X and Mr B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) provided poor service when it 
cancelled an international payment without informing them.
What happened
Mr B says he instructed Barclays to make an international payment of £7,848.30 in early 
June 2022 for a medical procedure for his wife. Mr B says he received a message to call 
Barclays and went through a detailed and intrusive set of questions by a member of Barclays 
staff, unrelated to the actual financial transaction. Mr B says this payment was confirmed to 
him in writing a day or so later. Mr B says he then heard from the beneficiary, that the 
payment hadnt arrived and on checking with Barclays he was told to then check online for 
the status of the payment. 
Mr B says on Monday 20 June 2022 he called Barclays and was then told the payment had 
been cancelled by its fraud department, even though he hadnt been told this before. Mr B 
says he requested the Barclays member of staff to immediately refund the payment but was 
told it could take several days to do so. Mr B says he had to make alternative arrangements 
to make the payment and the refund of the payment back to his account, took Barclays a 
month to complete with an exchange loss. 
Mr B says Barclays only initially offered him a modest amount of compensation, but then 
increased its offer to £475 in total. Mr B doesnt feel this goes far enough to compensate him 
for the poor service Barclays provided - namely, his own time, repeated misleading 
information, unnecessary interrogation of his personal details and the time it took for 
Barclays to return the monies taken from his bank account.
Barclays says it has apologised for the misinformation given to Mr B at the time the payment 
was made and have provided feedback to a member of its team regarding the telephone call 
concerning the authentication of the payment. It also accepts it could have returned the 
payment sooner than it did but feel it has adequately compensated X and Mr B for this 
paying £475 in total, plus a payment of £52 for the exchange rate difference between the two 
payments made. 
X and Mr B werent happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. 
Although the investigator agreed Barclays were at fault here, it had returned X and Mr B to 
the correct financial standing and the level of compensation of £475 it paid, was at the higher 
end of this services redress guidelines. 
X and Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for X and Mr B to have thought 
a payment theyd instructed for a medical procedure, had been sent only to find out it had 
been cancelled without being informed.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays could have done more here to put 
right the poor service it provided X and Mr B, and if the level of compensation it has paid is 
fair and reasonable. 
The first thing to say here is Barclays have accepted it didnt provide the level of service X 
and Mr B should expect when making a payment like this. 
Both Barclays and X and Mr B have provided this service with comprehensive details of the 
course of events and while that has proved helpful, given both parties are fully aware of the 
series of events here, I wont be commenting on every point made as I dont feel its 
necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision. Thats not to say I havent 
considered everything - I have. 
Mr B has told this service he wasnt happy with the response he received from Barclays with 
his detailed 13-point complaint, but I can see Barclays have responded to those points 
although Mr B remains unhappy with those responses. Without going over these individual 
points again, what is important is Barclays have accepted responsibility for the problems X 
and Mr B went through. 
Theres no doubt here Barclays have not provided the level of service I would expect to see 
when a customer attempts to make an international payment like this. In particular it mislead 
X and Mr B in thinking the initial payment had gone through, took longer than it should to 
have returned the monies to their bank account, it could have done more to have contacted 
X and Mr B when the payment was blocked and throughout the matter, its communication 
could have been better. 
I have considered the issue Mr B also raises over the questioning during the verification of 
the initial payment and I can understand that may have come across as intrusive, but its 
also fair to say these measures are put in place by banks to ensure a fraud isnt being 
committed, so while Mr B may not agree it is there to protect customers like him. That said, 
Barclays have provided feedback to the member of staff involved about the level of 
questioning and the misinformation she gave to Mr B at the time and thats something I 
would expect to see. 
So that leaves me to consider having made those mistakes if Barclays did enough to put 
matters right and Im satisfied it has here. I say this as its not the role of this service to 
penalise businesses when mistakes and poor service is provided to consumers, but to 
ensure when it does the consumer is put back into the position it was before any errors took 
place, an apology is given and a commensurate level of redress is paid.  
As I said earlier, theres no dispute Barclays havent provided the level of service X and Mr B 
deserved on this occasion, but it has apologised provided feedback to members of staff and 
paid £475 in compensation, along with a refund for the exchange loss X and Mr B incurred of 
£52. So, without trying to minimise the frustration and upset this would have undoubtedly 
caused X and Mr B, I am satisfied the level of redress here is fair and reasonable. While X and Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Barclays. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman