DRN-3163973
The complaint
 Mr P has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc continued charging him excessive amounts 
for his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty. Hes specifically referred to the increase 
in overdraft interest that was due to occur in early 2020, but has also referred to financial 
difficulties from before then.
What happened
 Mr P complained to HSBC about the overdraft charges and interest that were being applied 
to his account. He said the interest and charges were contributing to his financial difficulties 
at a time when he was already struggling. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr P 
were dissatisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that HSBC ought 
to have realised that Mr P was experiencing financial difficulty by July 2016 and so shouldnt 
have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. HSBC disagreed 
so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after July 2016. By 
this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr P was in no position to sustainably repay what 
he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because, by this point, Mr P was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt 
seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. As our adjudicator 
explained, HSBCs own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency 
borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. HSBC has argued that this only refers to 
unarranged overdrafts, but I note that HSBCs own website describes arranged overdrafts 
as:
A financial safety net, just in case you need it
If you need a little money to tide you over or cover unexpected expenses, an arranged 
overdraft can be a useful way of borrowing for the short term.
So its clear that HSBC itself considers arranged overdrafts as a form of short term 
borrowing. And the Lending Code, which was in place at the time, also clearly stated that 
hardcore borrowing was a potential indicator of difficulty. So I remain of the view that 
sustained and prolonged overdraft usage is an indication of a potential problem.
With all this in mind, I think that Mr Ps overdraft usage should have prompted HSBC to have 
realised that he wasnt using his overdraft as intended and so it shouldnt have continued 
offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mr Ps overdraft usage and instead 
continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr P ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Mr P fairly and he lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ps complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ps current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after 1 July 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr P to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ps credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in July 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr P along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
I appreciate that Mr P feels HSBC should also pay him compensation for the impact this 
issue and complaint has had on his health, and I understand why Mr P feels that way. But 
given what Mr P has told us about his personal circumstances overall, I think it would be 
difficult for me to say that HSBC was a direct cause of Mr Ps worsening health concerns. I 
appreciate that the issues described here have no doubt caused him additional stress, but 
Im still satisfied that by taking the steps set out above HSBC will have done enough to fairly 
resolve Mr Ps complaint. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman