DRN-3205088
The complaint
Ms I complains about several oil option CFDs she had with Plus500UK Ltd which she says 
became unavailable for trading before the expiry date.
What happened
Ms I opened an account with Plus500 in March 2019 through which she traded CFDs. In 
August and September 2020, she opened several positions in the Call 43/Oct/Oil option CFD 
and as at the time she complained she had eight open positions. Ms I also opened two 
positions in the Call 42.5/Oct/Oil option CFD. 
The expiry date for both instruments was 15 September 2020 and the underlying market was 
West Texas Intermediate Crude Oil (WTI).
Ms I complained to Plus500 on 9 September 2020, querying why there wasnt any 
movement in respect of the instruments and why her money was trapped. In its final 
response letter (FRL) Plus500 explained that both instruments were unavailable due to lower 
trading volumes for the underlying option contracts on the exchange. It referred to clause 
13.7 of the terms of its User Agreement which warned that where certain instruments 
became volatile or illiquid it may not be possible to immediately execute orders.
However, Plus500 went on to say that during the period both instruments appeared 
unavailable on its platform feeds were quoted from time to time and that as such it did not 
reflect the market correctly. It apologised for this and paid £306.49 into Ms Is account based 
on the best market rate she could have closed her trades at during the period in question. 
Ms I didnt accept the offer from Plus 500 and referred her complaint to us. In addition to the 
two instruments considered by Plus 500 in its FRL she complained about instruments she 
had invested in in 2019 which she said had been subject to the same issues  namely Call 
65.5/May/Oil, Call 64//May/Oil, and Call 67/June/Oil.
One of our investigators provided his initial thoughts to Ms I in relation to her complaint about 
the Call 43/Oct/Oil option CFD and Call 42.5//Oct/Oil option CFD. He explained that 
Plus500s automated system was unable to present customers with a price on its platform 
because there werent enough price feeds but that on investigation it had concluded that 
there were enough feeds at certain points for a price to have been given. He said it had paid 
Ms I the maximum she could have got between 9 September 2020 and expiry of the 
instruments on 15 September 2020 and that she couldnt have done any better.
Ms I responded to the investigator saying that if Plus500 lists an instrument with an expiry 
date it should be available up to that date otherwise it is unfair to the customer. She said that 
freezing all activity on an instrument midway to expiry when the market is moving favourably 
in the customers direction so that their money is trapped and taken on expiry is fraud. 
Ms I said she didnt intend to close her positions on 9 September 2020 as the investigator 
had said and that was simply the day she became aware of the discrepancies on the prices 
they were showing compared to what was happening in the market.
The investigator then provided his written opinion on the complaint explaining why he didnt 
think it should be upheld. He said that Plus 500 had dealt with the complaint about the Call 
43/Oct/Oil option and Call 42.5//Oct/Oil option fairly. Regarding the 2019 trades he said it 
wasnt possible to see the prices for April and May 2019 so he  it wasnt possible to say if 
there were any prices available in the period Ms I said she wanted to trade. The investigator 
went on to say that even if the prices were available there was no way of knowing when she 
wanted to close the positions. 
Ms I didnt agree with the investigator and made several points in response to his opinion. I 
have summarised what I consider to be the key points as follows:
Given she had six years to complain, businesses should retain information for at 
least that long so there is no excuse for Plus500 not to have a record of rates from 
April and May 2019.
Plus500 should have a system that downloads and stores rates information from 
Bloomberg for at least six years.
She would like to see the basis and calculation that arrived at a figure of $394 for 
9250 units of instruments.
The redress she sought was made up of the losses incurred in April and May 2019 
and September 2020 as well as potential lost profit but she will forgo the profit if 
Plus500 will pay the losses plus interest.
The investigator addressed the points that Ms I made and provided her with the charts from 
Bloomberg which Plus500 had used to determine the amount it paid to her.
The investigator thereafter put forward Ms Is offer to accept her losses plus interest to Plus 
500 but it wasnt willing to offer anything beyond what it had paid to her as set out in its FRL.
The investigator subsequently went on to consider whether the account was appropriate for 
Ms I and asked her about her investment experience. She said that when she opened the 
account she wasnt asked any questions to assess her knowledge or experience and wasnt 
asked if she had previously traded CFDs. 
Ms I also said that there were inadequate risk warnings, such as a warning that an 
instrument could become unavailable and that she wasnt given a user agreement. She also 
referred to other problems such as the platform freezing. 
The investigator explained to Ms I that Plus500 had provided a questionnaire she had 
completed which showed that she had previous CFD experience, had worked in a relevant 
role within the financial services industry and held a relevant qualification. The investigator 
said that in the circumstances Plus500 hadnt failed in its appropriateness assessment. 
Ms I said she couldnt remember completing a questionnaire and still didnt accept the 
investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear that my role is to make a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the information provided by the parties taking into account relevant; law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; good industry 
practice where appropriate. My findings are made on a balance of probabilities  what is 
more likely, than not  and it is for me to decide how much weight to give any piece of 
evidence.
I will deal first with the issue of the appropriateness of the account, although this wasnt 
something raised by Ms I when she complained to Plus500 or on referral to us. However, we 
have an inquisitorial remit that means we can look outside the specific complaint issues 
raised in a complaint where appropriate, as the investigator explained to Plus 500. I note that 
it didnt dispute this and provided the information requested as to its appropriateness 
assessment.
And although Ms I didnt complain about the appropriateness of her account in her complaint 
to Plus500 she did subsequently inform the investigator that she wanted us to consider a 
complaint that Plus 500 had allowed her to open an account without assessing her 
knowledge and experience. 
I am satisfied in the circumstances that this is something we can consider in this complaint.
The rules that Plus500 must comply with require it to obtain information from a client about 
their knowledge and experience in relation to the product or service it is offering or the client 
demands so as to enable it to assess whether the product or service is appropriate for that 
client.
Ms I informed us that she was not asked any questions about her knowledge and experience 
when opening the account. However, Plus500 has provided the online questionnaire she 
completed on 18 March 2019 with the answers to the various questions showing that Ms I; 
had experience of CFD/leveraged trading; relevant educational/professional qualifications; 
experience in the financial services industry in a role relevant to CFDs/leveraged products.
I note Ms Is comments about not remembering completing a questionnaire and not knowing 
how Plus500 pulled this off - inferring she hadnt provided the information shown. I think it is 
very unlikely that Plus 500 completed the questionnaire for her and I think it is more likely 
than not she completed this as part of the online account opening process. I am satisfied 
that the information shown in the questionnaire more likely than not is based on the 
responses she provided. 
Plus 500 concluded that the account was appropriate for Ms I based on the information 
provided by her in the questionnaire. I have not seen any persuasive evidence that makes 
me think it was wrong to have reached that conclusion in this case. In the circumstances I 
dont think that Plus 500 did anything wrong in opening an account for Ms I for her to trade 
CFDs. 
Turning to the trades the original subject of Ms Is complaint, she opened positions in the 
Call 43/Oct/Oil/ option CFD and the Call 42.5/Oct/Oil option CFD as already noted. She 
complained on 9 September 2020 because those options werent available on Plus500s 
platform so she wasnt able to close her trades  although I note she has said she didnt 
intend to close them on that date in any event.
Ms I has argued that if Plus500 lists an instrument with an expiry date then it should be 
available and tradeable up to expiry. However, the client agreement that she entered into with Plus 500 - which was made up of several documents including the User Agreement and 
Summary Order Execution Policy  made clear that it didnt guarantee that it would always 
be possible to place a trade. 
I note that Ms I said she checked her emails and she wasnt provided with the User 
Agreement. However, I think it is more likely than not the documents that form the client 
agreement were made available and agreed to by her when she went through the online 
account opening process.
Under the User Agreement clause 13.7 states:
You acknowledge that the trading of certain instruments on the Trading Platform may 
become volatile or illiquid without warning. In such circumstances, it may not be possible to 
immediately execute orders on your behalf and trading will resume as soon as we receive 
reliable price feed, particularly in the period shortly before an expiry, usually for Future 
contracts and Options. If we determine that it would be in our customers best interests, we 
may switch to a new contract under a different exchange. Such action may require an early 
expiry or rollover of the existing contract, in which case you will receive prior notification by 
email.
And clause 10.2(i)e of the Summary Order Execution Policy states:
Price feeds that do not comply to spread limitations are not provided by Plus500 Ltd to Plus 
500 and are therefore not presented to clients, until they are within a prescribed variance of 
the prevailing market spread. Instruments with continual low trading volumes and poor 
market value that result in a wide bid-ask spread will not generally be available to trade.
I think the above terms agreed to by Ms I when she opened her account made clear that 
there are circumstances where it might not always be possible to place a trade.
I note that when Ms I referred her complaint to us she referred to the price of WTI going 
down a few days before 6 September 2020 and then starting to go up as of that date but that 
the price of the instruments the subject of her complaint remained immovable trapping her 
money in stagnant negative positions. 
However, contrary to what she has suggested the price for WTI over the period in question 
shows a general trend downwards in price up to and including 6 September 2020 at which 
time the price was lower than at any time since 14 August 2020. Thereafter there was some 
fluctuation but the price remained well below the strike price for both options until the expiry 
date. 
In any event, regardless of whether or not Plus500 did anything wrong because Ms I was 
unable to close her trades due to the unavailability of the instruments, it has put her back in 
the position she would have been in if she had been able to close her trades between 9 
September 2020 and expiry on 15 September 2020  using the highest rate available in that 
period as shown in the information provided by Bloomberg. 
I note Ms I has said that Plus500 hasnt provided the calculations showing how it arrived at 
the figure it paid to her although she has been provided with the information from Bloomberg 
which the calculations are based which I think show how Plus500 came to the figure it did. 
However, I set out below how Plus500 arrived at the amount it paid to Ms I. 
Both instruments Ms I was invested in closed at a rate of 0.01 at expiry on 15 September 
2020. The chart from Bloomberg for the Call 43/Oct/Oil option CFD shows that between 9 
September 2020 and the date of expiry the rate reached a high of 0.04. Ms I had eight positions totalling 4800 options. So, 4800 x (0.04 - 0.01) = $144.
For the Call 42.5/Oct/Oil option CFD the chart from Bloomberg shows the rate achieved a 
high of 0.06 at one point. Ms I had two positions in that instrument, each with 2500 options. 
So the amount payable in respect of that contract is 5000 x (0.06  0.01) =  $250. 
The total amount calculated by Plus 500 therefore amounted to $394 which at the exchange 
rates available at the time came to £306.49 - being the amount paid into Ms Is account. 
The only reason Ms I would have been entitled to more is if she could have achieved a 
higher rate than what is shown in the Bloomberg charts I have referred to. She has provided 
no evidence to support a finding that she was entitled to a different rate than that used by 
Plus500 when calculating the amount it paid to her.
The basis of her argument that she is entitled to repayment of her losses together with 
additional profits  amounting to more than £21,000  is that other similar instruments 
achieved significant movement which she calculated at an average of 150 pips. 
Ms I provided a screen shot of those instruments but these all have very different strike 
prices to the options the subject of this complaint. It is therefore unsurprising that these 
instruments didnt behave in the same way as those the subject of this complaint. They 
provide no evidence in support of Ms Is argument that she is entitled to more than what 
Plus500 has paid to her.  
In the circumstances I am satisfied on the evidence provided by the parties that the amount 
Plus500 paid is the maximum that Ms I could have achieved if she been able to close her 
trades between 9 September 2020 and expiry on 15 September 2020. In the circumstances I 
think the amount paid by Plus500 is fair and reasonable and she isnt entitled to anything 
further. 
I now turn to the 2019 instruments Ms I has complained about. Ms I has said that these 
instruments also became unavailable to trade on Plus500s platform, but there is no 
information available to establish whether this was the case or not. 
However, Plus500 has explained it does log all unavailability queries from customers and 
has a record of only one query relating to Call/67/June/Oil which was about a period of delay 
of only seven minutes. This may well indicate there wasnt an issue with unavailability 
despite what Ms I has said. 
In any event, if the instruments were unavailable that doesnt mean Plus500 did anything 
wrong given the  terms of the User Agreement and Summary Execution Policy I have 
referred to above. 
Furthermore, even if there was evidence the instruments were unavailable and this was due 
to something Plus500 had done wrong, there is no way of establishing when, or if, Ms I 
would have closed the trades - or at what rate.
I note Ms I has questioned the lack of pricing information and argued that firms need to 
retain this information. But I  agree with the investigator that there was no requirement for 
Plus500 to download and retain all rates for all instruments from Bloomberg.  
In short, there is no reasonable basis on which I could uphold Ms Is complaint about the 
2019 options she has complained about because there is no evidence to support her 
complaint that Plus500 did anything wrong.  My final decision
I dont uphold  this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman