DRN-3024893
The complaint
Mr J complains that his house purchase was delayed due to an error made by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. He says that this caused him to lose earnings as he had to deal with the error. It 
also caused him distress and inconvenience. 
Mr J wants compensation of £10,000. 
What happened
On Thursday 25 February 2021 Mr J called his bank, HSBC, to make a telephone transfer
via CHAPS for £1,111,026.34 to the firm of solicitors who were handling his house purchase. 
Unfortunately, HSBC made an error in inputting the account number which meant that the 
money didnt go to the right account. 
Mr J realised this when he checked with both HSBC, who told him it had left his account,
and the solicitors, who said they hadnt received it. It shouldve have arrived that day.
HSBC called Mr J back as soon as theyd looked into what had happened and they 
confirmed that the error was theirs. This was at 8pm on 25 February 2021 and after Mr J had 
called them three times.
HSBC explained what had happened and told Mr J that the money would be with his 
solicitors by Monday 1 March 2021 in time for the completion of the purchase. They 
explained that the recall should be straightforward as the account was closed but regardless 
of that, HSBC would ensure the money was credited from their own reserves so there was 
no risk of any loss to him. They also promised to pay for any penalties if any were incurred.
Mr J wasnt reassured by this, especially when there was so much at stake. He said he 
found the banks tone inappropriate and wasnt happy with the way they spoke to him. He 
wasnt happy that he wasnt called back when hed been told he would be and felt that he 
had to chase HSBC to find out what was happening. He said that he found it particularly 
infuriating that he wasnt given a number so that he could contact a particular member of 
staff directly.
Still concerned and wanting to know where his money was, Mr J called twice on Friday 26
February at 11am and again at 2pm. He stayed on the line so that he could speak to a
manager. He was told that the money was going to be with his solicitors in time and that
there was no risk to the completion. 
However, Mr J wasnt reassured and decided to push back the completion date by two days 
to make sure he wasnt in the position of incurring penalties.
Mr J finally had confirmation that the money was with HSBC on Monday 1 March at 10 am
and that it was with his solicitors by the afternoon. 
Mr J complained to HSBC about the distress and inconvenience that he had suffered as a 
result of their mistake. He also said that he had been unable to work whilst trying to sort out 
the money for his house purchase. As he is self-employed, he said that this impacted on his 
earnings.
HSBC offered him compensation of £500. 
Mr J wasnt happy with this as he thought that he should also be compensated for his loss of 
earnings, so he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator found that HSBC had offered the right level of compensation. Mr J didnt 
accept this decision. 
The complaint has come to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the stress that Mr J suffered in not knowing whether his house purchase 
would go through. And there is no doubt that this was caused by HSBCs error. 
I also accept that HSBC didnt deal with the situation very well. They shouldve been calling 
Mr J with updates on what was happening regularly and providing reassurance to him that 
either the money would get to his solicitors on time or that HSBC would compensate him for 
any losses incurred. I dont think that this was done. HSBC didnt even give Mr J a direct 
number for someone at the bank who would be able to help him. 
Despite the above, I think that the compensation of £500 offered by HSBC is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I will explain why. 
Mr J says he wasnt able to focus on work whilst the money was still missing and 
unaccounted for. And this meant he couldnt do what hed usually be doing which resulted in 
a loss of earnings. Ive thought carefully about what Mr J has said and I think its 
understandable his mind was preoccupied with what had happened and finding the funds. 
But Ive not seen evidence of a specific financial loss that can be attributed to the exact time 
Mr J was away from work. So, I dont consider it appropriate to award for this.  
Additionally, HSBC did say that they would ensure that the money for the purchase would be 
with his solicitors by the date required even if they had to cover it from their own reserves. 
And I note that the money was in the solicitors bank by the original completion date. 
That said, I do think that some compensation is payable for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr J. I have taken into account that a mistake was made by HSBC. But I also 
accept that this mistake didnt delay the house purchase as the money was in the solicitors 
bank by the date that completion was due to take place. It was Mr Js decision to extend the 
completion date. So, I think that £500 is the right level of compensation. 
Mr J told us that his wife was also affected by HSBCs error. Whilst I accept this, because 
the account and complaint is in Mr Js name, I cant make any awards to his wife.   
Im sorry that this isnt the outcome that Mr J hoped for. I hope that he can understand the 
reason for my decision. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that the sum of £500 offered by HSBC UK Bank Plc to Mr J is fair and 
reasonable. If this hasnt already been paid to Mr J, it should now be paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Rita Parmar
Ombudsman