DRN-4050293
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited turned down a claim 
she made on her legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms M provided consultancy services to a business through her own company. This contract 
began in September 2018. Notice to end the contract was given by the business at the end 
of October 2018. Ms M sought to pursue Employment Tribunal (ET) claims. She said the 
decision to end the contract was taken as shed made protected qualifying disclosures under 
the relevant legislation. She claimed on her legal expenses insurance policy for assistance in 
pursuing her ET claim.  
DAS turned down the claim. It said the employment disputes section of her policy only 
covered disputes relating to your contract of employment or future employment for your... 
work as an employee. Ms M was employed by her own company and didnt have a contract 
of employment with the business her company had contracted with. And her claim wasnt 
covered under the contract disputes section of the policy as that excluded claims relating to 
the insureds profession, business or employment. Weve previously considered a 
complaint about that decision and our investigator decided in 2019 the claim had been 
correctly and fairly turned down. 
Subsequently Ms M provided additional information to DAS. That included a new barristers 
opinion, a final decision from our service on another case which she felt supported her 
position and evidence from a solicitor who used to work for DAS about its approach to claims 
like this. DAS obtained its own counsels opinion which was supportive of its position. It 
continued to feel the claim had been correctly turned down. As Ms M remained unhappy we 
set up this complaint to consider the additional information shed provided. 
The investigator who considered it also felt DAS had acted fairly. She thought it was 
reasonable of DAS to give weight to the legal opinion it had obtained given this specifically 
commented on whether the claim was covered under the terms of the policy. And she 
explained why she thought the opinion obtained by Ms M was less persuasive. She thought 
there were differences between this complaint and the one on which Ms M had supplied the 
final decision. 
And she didnt think the evidence from the solicitor who previously worked for DAS 
demonstrated it had unfairly applied the terms of her insurance policy. Nor was she 
persuaded that emails from DAS considering options in relation to the claim showed it was 
unclear about its position on the matter. 
Ms Ms representatives didnt agree. In summary they said:
There was evidence from four employment law experts that supported Ms Ms view that 
cover should have been provided for her claim. And more weight should have been 
given to the supportive counsels opinion given his relevant experience and year of call.
Any ambiguity in the policy terms should be construed against the drafter and the advice 
from counsel was that the meaning of employment and employee in UK employment law 
is more broad than employees with a contract of employment. 
They believed the final decision on a different case (which was available on our website) 
was relevant here and we should consider the information provided about this in 
considering whether DAS had acted fairly given the clear similarities to this case.
Ms Ms solicitor had confirmed that when she worked for DAS it did cover claims like this 
and was happy to provide a statement to that effect if we contacted her (which they 
thought we should do).
The reference to the option of conceding in an internal email from DAS was revealing as 
it showed it was uncertain how to proceed with the case.
DAS had told Ms M in November 2018 that her policy covered employment claims. Other 
decisions from our service said an insurer should be responsible for costs where a 
consumer had been told these would be covered and theyd acted on that advice. It 
thought this applied here.
And they suggested restricting policy coverage to disputes relating to your contract of 
employment could be discriminatory as a higher proportion of women might find 
themselves in less secure employment and so not be covered by the policy.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say DAS has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not considering DASs original decision to turn down the claim as thats already been 
considered by our service as part of a separate complaint. What Im considering in this 
decision is whether DAS acted fairly in maintaining its position that cover shouldnt be 
provided for the claim once Ms M provided additional information. 
The key issue here is whether the claim she wants to make is covered by her policy. In order 
to do so it needs to fall within the employment disputes section of her policy. That says we 
will cover costs and expense for the followinga dispute relating to your contract of 
employment or future employment for your or their work as an employee. And the policy 
defines you as the person(s) named in the policy schedule as the policyholder. 
Ive reviewed the further legal opinions provided by the parties since the previous complaint 
closed. Ms M has provided an opinion from leading counsel. I note that much of this opinion 
concerns whether her claim has reasonable prospects of success (and concludes it does). 
However, it does then go on to consider the issue of insurance coverage. Counsel concludes 
that Ms Ms relationship with the respondent business for her claim was one of worker under 
the Employment Rights Act 1996 and of employee under the Equality Act 2010. 
He said the fact her working relationship was contracted via an intermediate company was 
neither here nor there. And the correct analysis should follow that established in the case of Uber BV and others v Aslam and others (the Uber case) which was to look at the 
statutory right protected rather than the nature of the contractual relationship between the 
claimant and respondent. He thought the claim had been wrongly excluded from cover. 
Having received that opinion DAS obtained its own counsels opinion on whether the claim 
was covered by the policy. Its counsel identified the burden of proof was on Ms M to show 
an insured incident falling within the terms of her policy had taken place. And in order for that 
to be the case the dispute needed to relate to a contract of employment made between an 
employer and the policyholder (or a member of his or her family). Ms M was employed by 
her own company against whom she had no claim. And while Ms M might be a worker 
(which would enable her qualify for statutory protection under the Employment Rights Act) 
that wasnt evidence she had a contract of employment. So he didnt feel her claim was 
covered by her policy. 
I dont think it was unreasonable of DAS to rely on the opinion of its counsel rather than that 
obtained by Ms M. Her representatives have suggested its counsel isnt an expert in 
employment law but I dont think thats right. His profile lists employment as an area of 
expertise and he is also a deputy district judge. His year of call is also significantly earlier 
than that of Ms Ms counsel. 
And his opinion solely focusses on the question of whether Ms Ms claim is covered by the 
policy terms. I think hes correct to say the insurance contract between Ms M and DAS sets 
out the extent of cover the insurer will provide. It says that for an insured event to take place 
it must relate to a contract of employment (it doesnt reference whether the insured is an 
employee or not). So I do think that the relationship between Ms M and the company she 
was providing services to is relevant in deciding whether that term is met. 
Ms Ms counsel has referenced comments made in the Uber case. But those comments 
related to whether the claimants in that case fell within the definition of a worker set out in 
the relevant statutory provisions (irrespective of what had been contractually agreed 
between the claimants and the business they were working for). Thats different to the 
question here which is whether the claim Ms M wants to make falls within one of the insured 
events set out in her contract of insurance with DAS. 
For employment claims that contract requires these must relate to her contract of 
employment. I appreciate that under relevant statutory provisions Ms M may well be classed 
as a worker. But that doesnt change the fact she doesnt have a contract of employment 
with the business shes seeking legal expenses insurance to assist with a claim against. So 
her claim doesnt meet the terms and conditions of her policy. 
Ms M has argued that position isnt consistent with what we said on another complaint and 
has provided the final decision from that complaint in support of her position. Ive reviewed 
the final decision Ms M provided and I think there are significant differences between that 
case and her own. 
There were no competing legal opinions in that case and the supportive barristers opinion 
placed weight on the fact that the employment arrangements in question were common to 
the industry in question (which isnt the same as the one Ms M was working in). The barrister 
also said the dispute clearly related to the consumers contract of employment. That isnt the 
case here (the only opinion to specifically comment on this is that from DASs counsel which 
says the rights she has are not incidence of any contract of employment).  In any event as 
we explain on our website our decisions dont set precedents. And we decide each case on 
its own particular facts and merits. Ive also reviewed the internal email that Ms M and her representatives have referenced. 
That email set out possible next steps following receipt of the counsels opinion from Ms M. It 
explained our general approach would be that a legal opinion should be relied on in the 
absence of a contrary legal view. So the options were either to accept the opinion (concede) 
or to obtain an alternative opinion. And the latter is what DAS decided to do. I think that 
email shows DAS was considering its next steps in the light of new evidence (as Id expect it 
to do) but I dont think it shows it was uncertain of its position in relation to this claim. 
Ms Ms representatives also say DAS told her on 12 November 2018 that her policy covered 
employment claims and it should be responsible for costs where a consumer acted on that 
advice. Where a business has wrongly advised a consumer and that caused them to incur 
costs they wouldnt otherwise have incurred we might say the business should be 
responsible for those. 
But that isnt what happened in this case. DAS did say Ms Ms policy covered employment 
claims. Thats correct in general terms. But those claims need to relate to a contract of 
employment. Arguably DAS could have made that clearer in its email to her. However, it did 
explain the next step would be to establish whether the claim was more likely to win or not 
and that it wouldnt be providing funding for her existing representatives to pursue it. It didnt 
make any commitment to cover ongoing costs. So I dont agree DAS is responsible for any 
costs Ms M then incurred.  
Ms M believes its significant a solicitor who used to work for DAS says it did cover claims 
involving workers when she was employed by them. And shes suggested we should speak 
to her to find out more information about this. I dont think its necessary to do that. DAS has 
previously confirmed that it has covered workers in the past but this was where commercial 
or small business legal expenses insurance was in place; workers werent covered under 
personal legal expenses policies because these arent intended to provide cover for 
commercial risks.   
Even if Ms Ms solicitors recollection is that there were other cases where workers were 
covered for personal legal expenses insurance claims Im not considering whether DAS 
made the correct decision on other individual claims. The issue Im considering is whether it 
made a fair decision on policy coverage for this claim. And for the reasons Ive already 
explained Im satisfied that it acted in line with the policy terms and treated Ms M fairly in 
turning down the claim she made. 
Ms Ms representatives have suggested the policy term might in itself be discriminatory as a 
higher proportion of women might find themselves in less secure employment arrangements 
and so not be covered by the policy. Our service doesnt have the power to determine 
whether the Equality Act 2010 has been breached; only a court can do that. However, in 
considering this complaint Ive taken into account the Equality Act given its relevant law  
but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances.
In general an insurer is entitled to decide which risks it wants to cover and which it doesnt. 
Thats part of every insurers commercial discretion and, as long as this information is clearly 
set out in the policy documents, its not something that wed normally interfere with. DAS has 
clearly set out within the policy that it will only cover employment claims that relate to a 
contract of employment. 
And its explained thats because this is a personal policy which was never intended to cover 
commercial risks (such as those that would arise from the contract for services Ms Ms 
business had with the company she was working for). If Ms M had wanted cover for those 
risks she could have taken out a legal expenses policy covering her business. On that basis I think its reasonable to say claims costs for wider commercial risks wont 
have been factored into the price of the policy. I dont think its fair or reasonable to direct 
DAS to pay for a claim that isnt covered and for which it didnt charge a premium. And while 
Ms Ms representatives have suggested theres a broader indirect discrimination issue in 
relation to this term they havent provided further evidence in support of that. 
In any case the issue for me is whether the relevant term has been applied fairly in Ms Ms 
case. I havent seen anything to show that Ms M either couldnt have been employed under 
a contract of employment or couldnt have obtained a legal expenses insurance policy 
covering her business. I dont think DAS acted unfairly in declining to pay a claim that isnt 
covered by her policy. 
Finally, Ms M has provided a newspaper article from 2019 which reports DASs position as 
being, amongst other things, that it didnt distinguish between employees and workers with 
regards to its personal LEI provision. We queried that article with DAS who told us the 
quotes in the article werent attributable to it and its position as reported in the article didnt 
appear in any of the information it published online. It didnt think the article accounted for 
the differences in the level of cover it provided and the variance on our approach based on 
the specific terms of the contract of insurance.
Im not clear how the comments in the article came to be reported as they were but I dont 
think that changes the position on this complaint. DAS has made clear those comments 
dont reflect its position. And that is, for customers with a personal legal expenses policy, it 
will only cover an employment dispute where that arises from a contract of employment. For 
the reasons Ive explained in this decision I think its acted correctly and fairly in applying that 
term in Ms Ms case. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman