DRN-2224581
The complaint
Miss C complained about a loan she took out through a company called PDL Finance 
Limited, trading as Mr Lender. Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender throughout this decision, for 
consistency. 
Miss C says she was lent to irresponsibly and the loan caused her financial problems.
What happened
We now know that she took out two loans from, in October and December 2015. Ive 
enclosed a summary of her borrowing with Mr Lender based on the information provided to 
us:
Loan Taken Out Repaid Amount Instalments Highest Monthly 
Repayment
1 12/10/15 18/12/15 £150 2 £121
2 27/12/15 Outstanding £300 4 £133
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Miss Cs complaint.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss C could repay the loan she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Miss Cs complaint.
Mr Lender told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Miss C, including 
assessing her income, expenditure and creditworthiness. Im not going to list everything it 
did but suffice to say Ive looked over the checks it carried out and considered them 
thoroughly. 
Overall however, I think the checks carried out were at the less detailed end of the spectrum. 
I think they would have revealed some, but certainly not all, of Miss Cs overall financial 
profile. I also see Miss C herself declared her net income (after tax) as around £980 and 
£950 per month respectively (for loans 1 and 2) and on this basis, I think the repayments on 
both would have looked sustainable; the entirety of the information at the time showed, in my 
view, that Miss C would be able to make the repayments she was committing to. 
As Ive said above, our normal approach to these types of loans is that the early lending 
relationship means less thorough checks are proportionate, as we see here in Miss Cs 
case. Nevertheless, Im aware that her income certainly wasnt high and I take that into 
account. Nor do I doubt her when she says she was experiencing financial hardship 
elsewhere at around that particular time. 
But looking at all this through the lens of what Mr Lender knew at the time of the first loan, I 
think the checks it carried out indicated it was sustainable, not least because it was for a 
moderate sum. So, Im afraid I dont think theres enough evidence to uphold this part of 
Miss Cs complaint. 
Miss C then successfully paid that loan off and took out a second loan a few days later. 
Although this was for more money, it was still quite moderate in value and payable over a 
longer term. So her monthly repayments went up only marginally in comparison with the first. 
I therefore dont have any evidence to uphold this complaint either.
Ive looked carefully at what Miss C has said in response to our adjudicators view that her 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. I thank her for the comprehensive reply and I note very 
carefully what she says in relation to her being declined for some loans by Mr Lender, prior 
to these two being agreed. 
However, the reasons for this could have been varied, including for relatively minor 
administrative matters. The declined loans also pre-dated the granted ones by some months 
which could mean different criteria were applied and / or Miss Cs income / expenditure may 
well have fluctuated. So Im afraid that having looked at what Miss C said, I have no reason 
to change my view.
Ive considered the start of the lending relationship as the point at which the first loan was 
granted, and taking account of everything we now know, I think reasonable and 
proportionate checks, together with Miss Cs own declarations about her means, would have 
most likely caused Mr Lender to fairly conclude the loans were sustainable. 
Whilst I agree its possible that more thorough financial checks could have exposed Miss Cs 
challenging financial situation much better, she was still at the beginning of a lending 
relationship with this particular business.Im afraid there isnt enough evidence to uphold this complaint. Im very sorry to disappoint 
Miss C.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct PDL Finance Limited to pay Miss C any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman