DRN-4233024
The complaint
Mr A complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund the money he lost when he 
fell victim to a cryptocurrency scam. 
What happened
In mid-2022, Mr A responded to an online advert for a cryptocurrency platform (E). E 
directed him to set up a Wise account as well as a cryptocurrency wallet. He sent funds from 
his existing bank account (partly funded by a loan) to Wise. With his permission, he says E 
sent money from Wise to the cryptocurrency wallet  to buy cryptocurrency and load it to Es 
platform. 
Unfortunately, it appears Es trading platform was fake. Mr A realised it was a scam when E 
told him he would have to pay a significant withdrawal fee to access his funds. He 
complained to Wise that it should have identified the payments as presenting a fraud risk. If 
it had intervened appropriately, he said the fraud would have been prevented.  
As Wise didnt refund his loss, Mr A referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
looked into things  but ultimately didnt uphold Mr As complaint. In summary, while they 
thought Wise ought to have done more to protect Mr A, they werent persuaded appropriate 
intervention would have uncovered the scam and prevented his loss.
Mr A has appealed the investigators view. He says he had been directed to use Wise (rather 
than his own bank) to make the payments due to its weaker fraud controls. And even a 
generic scam warning, as the investigator suggested should have been given, would have 
exposed the scam if it was effective.
The case was passed to me. Ive been in touch with Mr A to explain why, even if intervention 
went beyond a generic warning, I wasnt persuaded the scam would have been uncovered 
noting the extent of control he granted E, the research he had already done into the 
company, and his response when his bank questioned him about one of the Wise transfers. I 
asked Mr A for any further comments or evidence in response. 
Mr A says, despite the use of remote access, he still had access to the account. Even if he 
didnt, Wise would have needed to go through security checks for verification, which E 
wouldnt have passed. He also says, if questioned, he would have given Es name. And if 
Wise had told him they werent regulated, the scam would have been uncovered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I accept Mr A fell victim to a scam. But he consented for E to make these payments on his 
behalf  meaning they are considered authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. Under those regulations, Wise has a duty to promptly execute authorised payment 
instructions without undue delay. So the starting position is that Mr A is liable for the losses 
arising from the payments. 
However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Wise to take additional 
steps before processing a payment. Such as when there are grounds to suspect the 
payment presented a fraud risk. That might occur when a payment is significantly unusual or 
uncharacteristic compared to the normal use of the account. And/or if the account activity fits 
a known pattern of fraud. 
Looking at Mr As account activity, I dont think Wise had cause for concern immediately. As 
the account was newly opened, it didnt know how Mr A usually transacted  so the 
payments didnt appear uncharacteristic. Nor do I think they were high enough in value to 
prompt fraud concerns. 
While I would expect Wise to be aware of the risks of cryptocurrency scams, the sole fact 
these were cryptocurrency payments wouldnt have made it obvious Mr A was falling victim 
to a scam. The merchant he paid directly was legitimate. Customers can, and do, purchase 
and trade cryptocurrency directly from such merchants.  
There were also gaps of a week, and then a few days, in between the first few payments - all 
for similar amounts. This will have contributed to Wise's view of what type of account activity 
to expect from Mr A. Overall, I consider it reasonable that Wise executed these payments 
without completing further checks. 
There was then a gap of around a month before the next payment, showing Mr A wasn't 
being rushed into making it and had time to consider whether to proceed. So I can see the 
case for why the next payment  which at £10,000, was high value  didnt flag for further 
checks. But at least when a further payment of £10,000 was sent the next day, I do think 
Wise ought to have intervened. It was a significant escalation compared to Mr As prior 
spending.
However, Im not persuaded that appropriate intervention by Wise at this point (or slightly 
earlier) would have uncovered the scam. This is because:
If Wise had issued a warning or reached out to Mr A through web chat or in-app chat, 
it appears likely the scammers would have seen this and/or responded. Thats 
because he says the scammers were making the transactions for him, using remote 
access software. I would consider it reasonable for Wise to rely on responses 
received in this way; it didnt have grounds to suspect anyone else had access to the 
account. So, its unlikely intervention of this type would have worked.
Mr A has pointed out the scammers didnt have unsupervised access to his account. 
Regardless, its likely they could have explained away any warning or questioning 
he saw, reassuring him (as they had already done) they were regulated and making 
him profits on the platform. He has questioned how we would approach things if the 
scammers did have sole access  but that isnt relevant to my findings.
Regardless of the above  if Wise had managed to speak to Mr A directly, such as by 
calling him, Im still not persuaded it would have uncovered the scam.  At this point, it 
seems he was being heavily guided by the scammers. So I'm not persuaded he 
would have responded in a way that made the scam risk obvious, despite his 
assertion he would have mentioned Es role.My position is supported by Mr As contact with his bank when he sent the funds to 
Wise. His banks records show he made a £3,000 payment in branch. He gave the 
purpose of the payment as "making investments. And the note says: "Customer 
sending funds to pay for shares. Has used in previous years and is happy genuine".
Mr A says he responded in this way as he thought he was investing in shares. I'm not 
persuaded by that explanation. I've reviewed all the correspondence between him 
and the scammers, as well as an archived version of the scam website. I've found no 
suggestion the scam company claimed, or Mr A otherwise thought, he was 
purchasing shares. Instead, his messages talk about buying cryptocurrency and gold. 
So its unclear why he didnt describe the investment in those terms. 
Furthermore, the bank note says he had used the company "in previous years". Yet 
hes told us he had just started dealing with E. This suggests the explanation he gave 
his bank wasnt correct. We know its common in these types of scams for customers 
to be coached into giving cover stories if questioned about the payments, to avoid the 
risk of the scam being uncovered.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Mr A would have been forthcoming with 
Wise about what he was doing. Meaning I dont have confidence he would have 
mentioned Es involvement. The bank response suggests he would have responded 
in a way to avoid suspicion  likely guided by the scammers on what to say, given 
their involvement with the payments and the previous cover story. 
I would also point out that, even if Mr A did mention E, I wouldnt have expected Wise 
to look them up; its down to Mr A complete his due diligence before deciding to 
invest with a company. It would be reasonable to expect Wise to guide him on how to 
research the company (such as how to check if it was regulated). But I agree with the 
investigator its unclear he would have done this, given his prior research and his 
strong belief. He flagged a particular review he says would have made him realise 
the scam. But that seems unlikely, given he didnt find this initially. 
Overall, while I agree Wise didnt do enough to protect Mr A, Im not persuaded that failure 
caused his loss. Im not convinced he would have been dissuaded by Wise, nor that he 
would have responded to questioning in a way that made the fraud risk apparent. I therefore 
dont consider it fair to direct Wise to refund Mr A for the money he lost due to the actions of 
the scammers.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman