DRN-3322884
The complaint
Mrs G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to refund a disputed transaction
which caused her account to go overdrawn.
What happened
Mrs G noticed a payment she didnt recognise which was made to a merchant Ill refer to as
F. She spoke to NatWest about this who couldnt see the transaction on their system.
NatWest advised Mrs G to return once the payment had appeared on her statement and
report it and in the meantime they cancelled Mrs Gs card. The disputed transaction wasnt
followed up with the fraud team.
Following this, several payments from her account were unsuccessful and were returned. 
She spoke with NatWest about them and explained that she was told that funds in her 
account were for her to use. She then went on to transfer them out of her account. The 
unsuccessful payments were then redebited and Mrs Gs account went into an overdraft.
Mrs G called NatWest about the transactions she believed the bank had cancelled which
caused her to go into the overdraft and to chase up the disputed transaction to F. She was
told the matter would be dealt with and spoke to a fraud team member who went through the
transactions and confirmed theyd pulled them back.
Mrs G maintained that NatWest had put funds back into her account and told her that she
could use it, but then took the money out for the earlier cancelled transactions which caused
her to go into an overdraft. The call handler couldnt deal with the query because Mrs G
needed to speak with a different team who didnt work in the evening despite being told by
an earlier call handler that they could deal with her issue. Mrs G was told to call back the
following day.
Mrs G made a complaint to NatWest, she believed that NatWests actions had been the
cause of her account going into an overdraft. They looked into the matter and wrote to Mrs
G, stating that they couldnt identify the payment to F, but would refund any charges
associated with it if Mrs G could provide further information and they identified it as
fraudulent. Also, they werent responsible for the cancellation of payments, but they did
acknowledge theyd caused Mrs G some distress and anxiety and made a payment of
£16.20 for the cost of calls Mrs G had made.
The following day NatWest reissued their final response to Mrs G and acknowledged theyd
now identified the disputed transaction to F. NatWest disagreed that they were the cause of
the overdraft, but they refunded the disputed transaction to F as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs G was unhappy with how NatWest had handled her complaint and brought it to our
service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who thought
NatWest actions were reasonable, and they werent responsible for causing the overdraft. 
Mrs Gs complaint wasnt upheld and she asked for a further review. The complaint has now 
been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest have refunded the disputed transaction, so I dont need to address this point any
further. What I will consider is the background to the disputed transaction and the following
activity on Mrs Gs account and her interactions with NatWest.
Mrs G has said that she contacted NatWest on numerous occasions. NatWest searched
their systems and could only provide two calls and a brief chat transcript. Its apparent from
listening to the calls that there were others that I havent been able to consider.
The main thrust of Mrs Gs complaint is that she reported a disputed transaction and was
later told she had funds she could use in her account, believing that NatWest had put money
into it. Because of this she spent the funds and then the earlier blocked transactions were
forced through which took her account into its overdraft.
NatWest have explained that once Mrs G notified them about the disputed transaction, they
cancelled her card to protect the account. It was following this that three payments were
made to various merchants that were held because of the earlier block put onto Mrs Gs
card. This meant those funds werent debited from the account at that point. The merchants
requested the transactions be allowed to proceed and this was when the redebit took place.
Because the hold on the payments was due to the cancellation of the card and not fraud,
they were allowed through.
Mrs G contacted NatWest on 25 November and during the call, she was told the card would
be cancelled. When Ive examined the notes from NatWest, theres no mention of the card
being cancelled or this phone call. The only reference is to a further call Mrs G made five
days later when shes told that NatWest pulled the payments back. Its not clear when the
card was cancelled as there are other successful payments leaving the account after Mrs G
reported the disputed transaction. In NatWests final response letter(s), they tell Mrs G that
they cant cancel payments  but the impression they gave during the call was that NatWest
were responsible for pulling it back.
The cancellation of the card led to the hold on three payments. This was done to protect
Mrs Gs account and is something Id expect NatWest to do. The situation became confusing
by information given to Mrs G by NatWest. She was under the impression that funds in her
account were hers to spend. I havent been able to review this call, but I dont doubt what
Mrs G believed she was told and she repeats this in a later call with NatWest.
So, I think the way that NatWest handled the situation could have been done better, but
once Mrs G made the three payments to these merchants it was reasonable to expect that
she would have to pay for the purchases at some point. I think the timing of the release of
the payments and the information Mrs G had was the reason the account went into its
overdraft. I know Mrs G thinks the disputed transaction was partly responsible for the
overdraft , but the movement of funds into and out of her account dont support this.
NatWest made a gesture of goodwill for the refund of the disputed transaction and paid Mrs
G for call costs. They recognised theyd caused Mrs G some anxiety or distress but didnt
accept any further responsibility or offer any redress.
Overall, I think that NatWest presented Mrs G with a confusing picture and didnt follow up
with her disputed transaction, despite her reporting it several times. They left her with the
impression that she had more funds than she did, but I accept that those payments would
have had to come out of the account at some point. Its not clear from the statements if there
were any charges associated with the use of the overdraft, but if there were I dont think itsfair for Mrs G to pay them. I think she experienced poor service and was given incorrect
information about who could deal with her complaint. She had to repeatedly call NatWest to
find out what was happening and Mrs G said this caused her to become ill. I intend to
instruct NatWest to remove any charges or interest associated with the overdraft on the 30
November 2020 and pay Mrs G £75 for the poor service she experienced.
I invited Mrs G and NatWest to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Both parties accepted my provisional decision, 
but Mrs G wanted to know why NatWest couldnt initially see the disputed transaction on 
their system.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my 
provisional decision.
In answer to Mrs Gs further query, as the disputed transaction was refunded by NatWest, I 
didnt need to consider it further to address her complaint. I cant give a reason why it wasnt 
initially spotted by them so Im afraid it will likely remain unanswered. 
Putting things right
NatWest should now pay Mrs G £75 to recognise the poor service she experienced. If there 
any charges or interest as a result of the account entering its overdraft on 30 November 
2020  these should be removed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Theyre instructed to pay Mrs G £75 and remove any interest or charges as a result of 
entering the overdraft on 30 November 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman