DRN-2782001
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to refund them 
when their holiday company went into liquidation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M booked a holiday at a Thomas Cook store in July 2019. The holiday consisted 
of three bookings: a package holiday with an organiser, E, including flights and 
accommodation costing £1,435.54; an excursion costing £154; and an airport transfer 
costing £35.04. One transaction was made on a debit card attached to Mr and Mrs Ms 
NatWest bank account, and this was for the combined excursion and transfer (£189.04). The 
rest of the holiday was paid for separately.
Mr and Mrs M had been due to travel in October 2019 but Thomas Cook went into liquidation 
in September 2019. Mr and Mrs Ms package holiday was protected by the ATOL scheme, 
but the excursion and transfer were not. A short time later, they asked NatWest to provide a 
refund of the amount they had paid for these.
NatWest originally said, early in November 2019, that Mr and Mrs M needed to contact 
ATOL before it could get involved. Mr and Mrs M said they had already been to ATOL and 
been told the excursion and transfer were not protected. NatWest then told Mr and Mrs M 
they needed to speak to ABTA, an association of which Thomas Cook was a member. There 
is also some evidence it advised Mr and Mrs M to claim on their travel insurance. It provided 
Mr and Mrs M with the details of this service to contact if they were unhappy with this 
response. They duly did so, and one of our investigators then looked into the matter.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought NatWests 
response had been reasonable. Mr and Mrs M appealed the investigators assessment of 
the case, which was placed into a queue while it waited for an ombudsman to carry out a 
review.
There were further developments while the case was waiting to be reviewed. After some 
more correspondence with the investigator, NatWest accepted that Mr and Mrs Ms booking 
hadnt been protected and acknowledged it shouldnt have insisted on them claiming via this 
protection before it would assist. It noted that it always asked customers to explore these 
routes first before it would attempt to claim a refund on their behalf via the chargeback 
system. It said it only had one attempt at getting the money back in this way and wanted to 
ensure all other avenues had been exhausted. 
However, the bank still didnt agree it should attempt to claim a refund for Mr and Mrs M. It 
explained that it believed the excursion and transfer would still have been available for them 
to use. If they couldnt get to the destination because  for example  the flights were 
cancelled, then this was just a case of them not being able to use the excursion and transfer 
services, and not something they would be due a refund for unless the providers of those 
services allowed for refunds in the event of cancellations. NatWest wondered if Thomas 
Cook had paid the providers in question.
Further research by this service revealed Thomas Cook had not paid the excursion provider 
for the booking, other than a small initial deposit. We didnt hear from the transfer provider. 
While this research was going on, the case was passed to me to decide. 
I wrote to NatWest noting the excursion provider had not been paid. I said I thought it was 
likely, on balance, that if Thomas Cook had not paid the excursion provider it had probably 
not paid the transfer provider either. I further noted that the bank had provided incorrect 
information to Mr and Mrs M about what they needed to do, and this had caused delays, 
frustration and annoyance. I thought this could have been avoided, or minimised, had a 
reasonable approach been taken from the beginning. I said I was minded to direct NatWest 
to treat Mr and Mrs M as though they had carried out a successful chargeback, and 
therefore refund them the money in dispute, and pay compensation of £100 for the impact 
on Mr and Mrs M of the way the dispute had been handled.
I asked the bank to respond by 11 May 2021. It hasnt responded to date. I also let Mr and 
Mrs M know that I intended to make a decision along the above lines. They did not say they 
disagreed with this. I have therefore proceeded with my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M paid for the excursion and transfer on a debit card. When they approached 
the bank to dispute the transaction, I would generally have expected it to consider whether it 
could reclaim the money for them via the method known as a chargeback, where the paying 
bank claims a refund from the receiving bank via the card network.
A chargeback is not a consumer right, and a bank does not have to attempt one if asked by 
a consumer. However, my view is that a bank should at least attempt a chargeback if it has a 
fair prospect of succeeding, as a matter of good practice. The rules of the chargeback 
scheme are not set by the bank, they are set by the card schemes (in this case, Visa). The 
rules have to be followed carefully and they make various stipulations as to, for example, 
what kind of information needs to be included for a chargeback to be valid.
NatWest did look into whether it could attempt a chargeback on the grounds Mr and Mrs M 
hadnt received the services theyd paid for, but has maintained over the lifetime of this case 
that this wouldnt have succeeded. Originally this was because it thought Mr and Mrs M 
needed to make a claim via ATOL, ABTA or their travel insurance in order for a chargeback 
to be successful.
The bank is right to say that in some scenarios involving holidays, the chargeback rules say 
an attempt has to be made first to make a claim with a relevant bonding agency  which 
would include schemes like those run by ATOL and ABTA. But this only applies where the 
holiday was covered by such a scheme. Mr and Mrs Ms package holiday was covered in 
this way, but it appears the services they paid for on their debit card were not. Mr and Mrs M 
told the bank this early on. While I wouldnt necessarily expect the bank just to have taken 
their word for it, it is something it could have verified with reasonable diligence. I take the 
same view regarding the travel insurance. Mr and Mrs M had their travel insurance via their 
NatWest bank account. As far as I can tell from the policy booklet, it wouldnt have covered a 
situation like the one Mr and Mrs M found themselves in. This is something the bank should 
have known or been able to find out easily, as the policy was a product it sold. In any event, I 
have not been able to find a requirement within the relevant chargebacks rules that a 
cardholder has to claim on their travel insurance, so I am not sure why the bank suggested 
this.NatWest now says a chargeback would have failed because the excursion and transfer had 
been paid for and were available for Mr and Mrs M to use. For the reasons I outlined earlier 
in this decision, I am not convinced that these would have been available. The excursion 
provider hadnt been paid by Thomas Cook, and I think on balance this means the transfer 
provider wouldnt have been paid either. 
I appreciate NatWests point that it wants to have as much information as possible before 
attempting a chargeback. I can see why it would want to avoid making highly speculative 
chargeback attempts. But this wasnt a situation where a chargeback would have been 
speculative  there was enough information in my view for it to have proceeded with a fair 
prospect of success, and I think the bank should therefore have attempted one. But it didnt, 
and it appears it is now too late to do so.
I also think NatWests handling of the dispute has been poor. Its asked for unnecessary 
information and maintained a stance which it turned out was incorrect for an extended period 
of time. It appears to have given unclear and confusing advice to Mr and Mrs M about what 
information they needed to provide. I think all of this this has caused them a fair amount of 
annoyance and frustration which could have been avoided had the bank acted reasonably.
Putting things right
Because NatWest is now too late to attempt a chargeback, and it should have attempted one 
while it was still in time, I think it is fair and reasonable that it should treat Mr and Mrs M as 
though it carried out a chargeback and this had been successful. In relation to the 
annoyance and frustration Mr and Mrs M have experienced as a result of the banks claims 
handling and customer service, I think £100 is a fair amount of compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and direct NatWest to 
do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation (in total, not per person).
Refund £189.04 to Mr and Mrs M, this being the amount they would have received 
from a successful chargeback.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman