DRN-3586813
The complaint
Miss M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around May 2016 Miss M was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Miss M decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In February 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Miss Ms behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Miss M to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £7,800 to mislead Miss M, as when 
the interest was added the total cost was actually £12,460;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding and would pay for itself within five years; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on her electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan agreement payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,000).
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Miss M or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Miss M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It emphasised that P had told Miss M that 
the system would pay for itself within five years, but when the loan interest is taken into 
account it will actually take 25 years, which is longer than the loan term.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review. I wrote a 
provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Miss M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Miss M could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss M 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Miss M says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and two versions of the solar quote, titled Getting Started and Your 
Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these, along with Miss Ms testimony and 
recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quotes are detailed documents that set out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that the quote formed a central part of the sales process and the 
representative of P would have discussed this in detail with Miss M, explaining any benefits 
of the system, prior to her agreeing to enter into the contract. Miss M has signed both 
copies.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Miss Ms 
version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
On balance, Im satisfied that Miss M was told that the overall cost of the system was more 
than its cash price. The credit agreement makes it clear that £7,800 is only the cash price. It 
sets out a clear breakdown of the deposit, the amount of credit provided, the total charge for 
credit, the monthly payments, and the total amount repayable, £12,460.
Having considered all the evidence, including Miss Ms recollections, Im satisfied that she 
was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that it would cost Miss M more than the cash price as she 
had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
FIT payments and savings
Miss M has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on her energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Miss Ms recollections of her meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss M could expect 
to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Miss M could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £172.89. The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss M 
could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings are £297.99 and, 
when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Miss M, the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £1,430.88. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
This results in an average monthly income of £119.24. Im satisfied that the same document 
set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £101.33. As a result, I agree 
that Miss M was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
payments and savings.
Theres also a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Miss M entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £101.33. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £103.00, but the difference  £2.67  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £101.33, to give an average difference between the monthly 
return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a positive 
figure for every year of the loan, meaning that on average the system would make enough 
money to cover the loan payments from the outset (aside from the fact that FIT payments 
are paid quarterly, not monthly).
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss M could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Miss M that the system would be self-funding within five 
years. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take five years for the 
overall benefits that Miss M could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the five-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This too shows that during year five the overall benefits that Miss M could expect 
to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £7,800.
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £12,460, 
would be reached during year 8, well within the term of the ten year loan.
So Im satisfied that P told Miss M that the system would pay for its cash price in five years, 
and for the loan in less than eight years, as supported by the graph and the table above, 
which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied 
that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently suffered a 
loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 25 years for the system to pay for 
itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Miss M.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote both set out that the system is expected to produce 2,551 
kWh a year. I have looked at Miss Ms FIT statements and can see that her system, on 
average, has generated 2,773 kWh a year. This is actually somewhat more than estimated 
by P at the point of sale (109%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, 
in terms of energy generation, if not financially. So the reason Miss M has not seen the 
expected financial returns is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this partly explains why Miss M hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
Over the long term, I would accept that explanation as a reasonable defence to a claim for 
misrepresentation. (I have done so in other cases.) But the difficulty Shawbrook faces with 
Miss Ms case, in my view, is that this does not explain why Ps figures were wrong from the 
very start. The 120 months repayment table above shows that the system was expected to 
pay for itself from the first month following installation, with an average monthly profit during 
the first year of £17.91. The systems failure to achieve that cannot be attributed solely to the 
failure of electricity prices to continue to follow a historic trend and increase year on year 
over the next 10 years in line with Ps expectations. It was wrong immediately.
For that reason, I am satisfied that in this case a misrepresentation was made, and for that 
reason I propose to uphold this complaint.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Miss M that the system would 
require no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the 
salesman did not tell her during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but 
that is not the same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that the system was misrepresented by P and that this induced Miss M to enter into 
the contract for the system. For that reason I expect to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
So my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties  I intend to order Shawbrook Bank Limited to 
compensate Miss M in the way usually ordered by our service. (That is not to unwind the 
contract and take back the solar panels, but rather to refund to Miss M the difference 
between what the panels have made and what P told her they would make, with simple 
interest on the refund at 8% a year, plus £100 for her inconvenience.)Responses to my provisional decision
Shawbrook consulted with P and then forwarded Ps own response to my provisional 
decision. In summary, P said that as the system is generating the estimated amount of 
energy, the reason why this has not translated into the expected financial returns might be 
because Miss M had not followed Ps advice about how to use the system most efficiently. 
On page 17 of Your Personal Solar Quotation it says:
So by simply putting your household appliances on sequential timers i.e. washing 
machine at 10am, dishwasher at 11am & cooker at 12 noon etc, you can increase 
the benefits of your system. Being efficient in the way you monitor what you produce 
and how you use it, can actually increase your total usage from an average 50% up 
to 65% in some cases (based on 4kw system and person using energy in the home 
at different times during the day).
That is all very well, but the quote does not say that the figures in the tables above are only 
valid if the purchaser does this, and this paragraph appears on page 17 while the tables 
I have shown above appear on pages 10 and 12. So I would not necessarily expect Miss M 
to see the tables and realise that they are only accurate  and that the system would only be 
self-funding  if she operated her household appliances in the manner described on page 
17. She might not even have read page 17, which is one of three and a half pages of small 
print (pages 15 to 18) which go into some detail about the system, and other topics too. 
I doubt that every consumer bothers to read all of that, and I would not expect them to.
It also appears from the figures at the top of page 9 (shown below) that the electricity bill 
savings were actually calculated based on an assumed usage of 75%,1 which I note is 
somewhat higher than the 65% which page 17 suggests is possible. But I dont think this 
would have been obvious to Miss M either.
So for these reasons I am not persuaded to change my mind, and I confirm my provisional 
findings here.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ms complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Miss M from the solar 
1 1,913.88 is 75% of 2,551.84. 1,913.88 times 0.1557 equals 297.99.
panels over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Miss M is paying (or has paid) more than she should have, then 
Shawbrook needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
her by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure the loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Miss M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Miss Ms monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Miss M have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing 
early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Miss M and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Miss M and she pays a new monthly payment 
until the end of the loan term.
If Miss M accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option (a, 
b, c or d) she wishes to accept.
If Miss M has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay her the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 
8% a year.
If Miss M has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Shawbrook, and then Shawbrook must: 
1. Refund the extra Miss M paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss M receives her 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Miss M paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss M receives her 
refund.
5. Pay Miss M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would have owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Miss M first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman