DRN-3185490
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited deliberately caused delays to a switch 
of funds request.
What happened
Mr Y had a Self-Invested Personal Pension which was in drawdown. Just after 6pm on 
11 February 2021 Mr Y instructed Aviva to switch funds from its Investors Multi-Asset Plus 
fund (MA fund) to an iShares Equity fund (iShares fund). 
Aviva placed the order for the sale of Mr Ys MA fund on 12 February (Friday) just before 
12pm. Mr Y received sale proceeds of £472,316 from this sale. The proceeds were used to 
purchase units in the iShare fund which completed on 16 February. 
On 16 February, Mr Y complained about the time it had taken for Aviva to switch his funds. 
He said Aviva had deliberately delayed things for its own advantage. In his view, the benefit 
of using the switch option was that as the word suggested, a switch involved swapping one 
thing for another. So, he considered there shouldnt have been any delay between the sale 
of the MA fund and the purchase of the iShares fund. Mr Y also complained about how long 
itd taken Aviva to respond to his concerns.
Aviva rejected Mr Ys complaint. It said whilst the switch process does remove some time 
and effort for the customer in avoiding them having to separately place two instructions (sell 
and buy), the switch process still involves the sale and purchase of the requested 
investments. And it was only when the sale proceeds from the MA fund sale were received, 
which was on 15 February, that the purchase of the iShares fund could be completed. Aviva 
said it had acted in line with its terms and conditions at all times. In respect of the timescales 
in responding to Mr Y, Aviva said it had done so within reasonable timeframes.
Our investigator noted it took Aviva three working days to complete Mr Ys switch, which, he 
thought wasnt unreasonable. He considered it was made clear to Mr Y through Avivas 
terms and conditions, that a switch entailed two transactions and wouldnt be instant. He 
also considered Aviva hadnt unreasonably delayed in answering Mr Ys concerns. 
Mr Y disagreed reiterating his complaint points. He also said that he thought there were 
wider issues to consider. In particular, he was of the view that the gap between selling and 
buying involved in a switch, left it open for the possibility of corruption. He wanted an 
Ombudsman to consider this point along with his other complaint points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Y has strong feelings about this case. But my role is to address the crux of 
his complaint rather than each point he has made. I also note our investigator has answered 
many of Mr Ys points during the time the complaint has been with our service and I have 
nothing further to add to these comments beyond the complaint that I must determine in this 
decision. Having taken everything into account, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. 
Ill explain why.
When Mr Y instructed Aviva to do the Switch he says he was expecting his holdings in the 
MA fund be 'switched' to holdings in the iShares fund. So, in his view, there would be no time 
delay as it was simply swapping one fund for another fund. 
Whilst I understand where Mr Y is coming from, I dont think anything Aviva said or 
communicated to him led him to believe this would be the basis of his switch request. In 
fact, its Pension Terms and Conditions section 10 under the heading Switching says (bold 
my emphasis):
You may instruct Us [Aviva] to sell units/shares in Fund(s) and reinvest the proceeds in 
other Fund(s)On receipt of Your instructions, We will process the online sale of the 
specified units/shares and then use the proceeds to process the online purchase of the 
specified new units/shares.
Section 13 of Avivas Order Execution Policy under the heading Switching has similar 
wording and also says: Where applicable purchase orders will be placed once all sale 
prices have been confirmed to Us by the relevant party and reflected in Your portfolio and 
Aviva Platform account. 
In my view, Aviva made it clear to Mr Y that by issuing a switch instruction, this was a two 
stage process and the second stage would only happen once the first stage had been 
completed. This was when the sale proceeds were received and then these could be used to 
purchase the requested fund. I consider Avivas terms and conditions were clear, fair and not 
misleading such that Mr Y could make an informed choice about how he wanted to proceed.
In terms of how long the process took, I can see that from the date of Mr Ys instructions to 
the date of completion it took three working days. When Mr Ys sale proceeds were 
confirmed received on 15 February 2021, the purchase of the iShares fund was made on the 
next working day. I dont think this shows Aviva unreasonably delayed matters. And Ive 
seen no evidence that Aviva deliberately delayed matters for its own benefit as Mr Y has 
claimed. I consider the process was well within the timescales Id expect to see for a 
transaction of this type. 
I also note Mr Y says theres a discrepancy between his regular statements and the contract 
notes. But his statements show the funds from the sale of the MA funds reaching his account 
on 15 February followed by the purchase of the iShares fund on 16 February. From more 
detailed transaction notes, the sale order was made by Aviva on 12 February (Friday), the 
settlement date for the MA funds was 15 February (Monday) and then the purchase of the 
iShares fund is recorded on 16 February (Tuesday). So, I think this correlates with Mr Ys 
statements. And again these documents show there was no undue delay to the process.
Ive noted Avivas response times to Mr Ys communications after he raised his concerns 
about the switch. But from what I can see it did answer Mr Ys correspondence within 
reasonable timeframes. And when it was unable to provide Mr Y with a full response to his 
complaint within the eight week timeframe it is allowed, it gave him referral rights to our 
service. Overall, I think Aviva has acted reasonably and fairly in terms of its communications 
with Mr Y.
I take on board Mr Ys point about the potential for wider issues. But my role is to look at the 
circumstances of the particular complaint and decide whether the business concerned has 
acted reasonably and fairly. This is the remit of our service as set out in the Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook (commonly referred to as DISP). In this particular 
instance, for all the reasons Ive set out above, I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably 
in the particular circumstances of this case.
So, whilst I know Mr Y will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not upholding the 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman