DRN-2135827
The complaint
Mr A says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The bank cant confirm where or when the
policy was taken out; the credit card was opened in 1990 but the banks records dont show
PPI being charged on the account until 2000. The policy gave Mr A protection against
accident, sickness and unemployment. He recalls the sale was on the phone, the bank says 
its more likely it was in one of its branches.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
The bank doesnt have any paperwork from when the PPI was sold which isnt unreasonable 
as it was so long ago. As the evidence is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and what we 
know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. Lloyds cant confirm the exact price of Mr As 
policy, but it has given a range (from £0.59p to £0.79p per £100 of outstanding balance), and 
I have used the higher cost for my analysis.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr A - that he wasnt aware the policy was optional. 
But I also have to consider how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what 
he recalls. Lloyds says its more likely than not that the optional nature of the policy 
was verbally explained to Mr A during the sale. Without stronger evidence showing 
the bank didnt make clear the PPI was optional, I cant fairly conclude Lloyds sold 
the PPI to Mr A without giving him a choice, and him agreeing to take it.
Its most likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr A. This means Lloyds had to
make sure it was right for him. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time I think it was. The PPI would have paid out in addition to his sick pay and for up 
to 12 months for all accident and sickness claims. It also gave him up to 12 months 
redundancy cover allowing him to protect any lump sum redundancy payment from 
his employer. So, overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful to Mr A if he was sick 
or unemployed.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. However, it seems he wouldnt have been affected by any of the
exclusions or limitations. Even at the higher end of the likely price, the policy 
wouldve been reasonably priced for the benefit it offered, and it was apparently 
affordable. So, overall, I think it unlikely Mr A wouldve made a different decision if 
better information had been provided. On balance I think he would still have taken 
out the policy.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But Lloyds
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr A,
that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank
PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it got
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman