DRN-2960798
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund the money he lost when he was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr C says that he met a lady Ill call F through a dating app in around March 2020 and they 
started to message each other. Mr C and F chatted regularly, and he says a relationship 
developed. F told Mr C that her mobile phone was faulty and so she was unable to send or 
receive video messages, but he did speak to her on one occasion. 
F told Mr C that she had inherited $1 million from her father. The funds were held in a 
security box abroad and she planned to travel there to remove them. But because F was 
short of funds at the time she asked if Mr C could lend her the £3,300 clearance fee to 
release the funds. F said that she would return the loaned funds and share half of her 
inheritance with Mr C if he loaned her the money. 
Mr C decided to lend F the money and set up an international transfer on 27 September 
2020. The payment was made the following day, but F told Mr C she hadnt received it. Mr C 
called Lloyds on 12 October to check if the payment had been made. When Mr C called 
Lloyds again on 19 October and said the funds hadnt been received, he was put through to 
the international payments team. On 23 October 2020 Mr C went in to branch to report the 
fact he thought hed been the victim of a scam. 
Lloyds say that as the payment Mr C made was an international payment it isnt covered by 
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. It has tried to recover Mr Cs funds on 
a best endeavours basis but has been unable to do so. As Lloyds considers it hasnt made 
any errors it hasnt refunded Mr Cs lost funds. 
Mr C thinks Lloyds should have noticed the payment was unusual because it was for a large 
amount and taken further steps.
The investigator who considered Mr Cs complaint didnt uphold it. She noted the CRM Code 
doesnt apply to this case and said that Lloyds acted reasonably in not flagging Mr Cs 
payment as unusual or suspicious. The investigator also felt Lloyds acted reasonably in 
contacting the receiving bank on the day it was notified of the scam and that it couldnt be 
held responsible for the fact the bank abroad hadnt responded to confirm if any funds 
remained. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator, so his complaint has been passed to me. In 
summary, he said:
- He wrote Fs full name incorrectly when he made the payment (he used a T instead 
of an F when typing her name) so he doesnt understand how the money reached 
her account. 
- As a result of the scam hes struggling with his health and financially. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im sorry Mr C has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept hes been the victim of 
a cruel scam, but I need to decide if Lloyds did enough to protect him from the loss he 
suffered. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Lloyds need to do anything further. I 
understand that Im delivering a very difficult message and Id like to reassure Mr C that Ive 
carefully considered his complaint before reaching this decision. 
Did Lloyds act fairly and reasonably in Mr Cs case?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds should have 
been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment request Mr C made was out of character and unusual. 
Whilst I understand the amount Mr C transferred was a significant sum to him, it wasnt a 
payment that was so large Id expect Lloyds to ask questions about it. Customers regularly 
make one off payments for similar amounts for all sorts of legitimate reasons. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Lloyds to flag all such payments.  
Im also mindful of the fact Mr C only opened the account on 28 August 2020 so Lloyds 
didnt have much information about Mr Cs normal level of spending. Since the account was 
opened Mr C had deposited £3,400 in to the account and made one low value payment of 
£68.98. So it looked to Lloyds as though Mr C had built up the funds to make a larger 
payment. Although the payment left the account balance low, it didnt clear the account and 
Lloyds didnt have a long enough history to consider this to be unusual. I recognise that Mr C was paying a new payee, but given his account was so new I cant 
conclude this was unusual either. It is normal to set up new payees on recently opened 
accounts. 
Overall, I dont consider there was enough going on here to say Lloyds ought reasonably to 
have taken further action before making the payment  so I cant conclude that Lloyds has 
done anything wrong here. Given this, although Im sympathetic to the circumstances Mr C 
now finds himself in, I wont be asking Lloyds to refund the money he lost. 
Mr C has raised the fact he misspelt the name of the payee when he set up the payment. 
The payment was correctly processed if it went to the account number and sort code 
instructed by Mr C, which is what happened here, so I cant reasonably conclude Lloyds did 
anything wrong in making the payment. The bank Mr Cs payment was sent to has confirmed 
the payment was received on 30 September 2020.  
I turn now to whether Lloyds has done what it should to try to recover Mr Cs funds. Lloyds 
contacted the bank the funds were sent to abroad on the day it was notified of a potential 
scam, but the bank hasnt responded. I cant hold Lloyds responsible for this. And given that 
the payment was made almost a month before Mr C notified Lloyds of the scam, I think its 
unlikely any funds remain - as scammers usually move funds rapidly. `
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman