The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc required him to enter a one-time passcode (OTP) in 
order to complete an online transaction using his debit card.
What happened
Mr B said he tried to make an online purchase using his Santander current account debit 
card. In order to complete that transaction Santander required him to enter a one-time 
passcode (OTP). This was sent by text message to Mr Bs mobile phone. But he didnt 
receive it due to having no mobile phone reception at his home address. So, his transaction 
was declined.
Mr B said when he contacted Santander to request assistance with his transaction it told him 
hed need to try a different way of making his payment. Mr B said that involved him 
contacting the company he wanted to transact with directly and providing his card details 
over the telephone, which was less secure.
Mr B felt it was unfair that his payment couldnt be completed without an OTP. He felt the 
way in which the OTP was provided by Santander excluded him. And he thought it should 
have offered an alternative security check in circumstances where a customer couldnt 
receive an OTP. Overall, he didnt feel Santander had done enough to assist him. So he 
complained.
When Santander responded to Mr Bs complaint it didnt uphold it. It explained that the OTP 
was required in the interests of security and fraud prevention. It said it sends OTPs by text 
because this is the fastest method of checking the authenticity of transactions. And, while it 
recognised Mr Bs frustration in being unable to receive an OTP due to poor signal, it said it 
had followed its procedure for processing online payments correctly. So, it didnt think it had 
made an error. 
But Mr B wasnt happy with Santanders response to his complaint. So he referred it to our 
service where our investigator assessed the information Mr B and Santander had provided. 
They empathised with Mr B, but thought Santander had dealt with this complaint fairly. And 
they didnt think it had made in error in how it had dealt with Mr Bs online transaction. 
So, they didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. But Mr B disagreed and 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I can see Mr B has gone to some 
DRN-1441995trouble to provide us with some detailed submissions. I want to assure him that I have read 
everything he has sent us. I hope he will understand if I dont address every comment hes 
made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels 
about the issues raised in this complaint. Hes told our service the problem affecting him 
applies equally to those without a mobile telephone or who live in areas with poor telephone 
reception. But my role is to assess whether I think Santander made a mistake, or treated Mr 
B unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. So, I can only address the impact of 
what happened on Mr B in this decision.
In this case Mr B was unable to complete his transaction without entering an OTP. I 
recognise that hes unhappy that Santander sends OTPs to a customers mobile phone by 
text message. And I appreciate that he feels excluded because he isnt able to receive the 
code he needs to complete an online transaction due to problems with the mobile phone 
signal at his home address. But issues with Mr Bs phone reception arent something I can 
fairly hold Santander responsible for.
I understand that Mr B thinks the way Santander has introduced its OTP requirements is 
unfair. And I can see he wants it to provide an alternative method of verification, which 
doesnt exclude customers who are unable to receive an OTP. However, Santanders 
decision to send an OTP by text message is a commercial decision its entitled to make. 
As our investigator explained were not the regulator of banks. So, we dont have the power 
to tell Santander to change the way it works on a day to day basis. And we cant comment 
on whether its security policy is right or tell it to adopt the changes that Mr B would like. 
Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr B and Santander have said here. But, in the 
overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Santander followed its security 
policy regarding online payments properly. I appreciate that caused inconvenience to Mr B. 
But I cant fairly find it made an error. So, I wont be upholding this complaint.
I know that Mr B will be disappointed by this decision. But, this now brings to an end what 
we, in trying to resolve his dispute with Santander informally, can do for him. Im sorry we 
cant help Mr B any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman