DRN-1657194
The complaint
Miss H has complained about the amount Calpe Insurance Company Limited paid to settle a 
claim made under her car insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer Calpe in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In December 2019 Miss Hs car was damaged beyond economical repair when she slid in 
poor weather conditions. Her car belonged to a finance company under a lease agreement. 
Miss Hs car was recovered by the police. 
Calpe settled Miss Hs claim by paying a settlement amount to the finance company as the 
owner of the car. 
Miss H owed a £3,000 excess under her policy with Calpe. So Calpe deducted this and the 
recovery and storage fees from the final settlement offer. 
Miss H told us the balance she owed to the finance company after Calpe paid the settlement 
was £3,810.61. She said she was repaying this amount in instalments to the finance 
company. 
Miss H believes Calpe should pay the market value for her car minus the excess. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
under the terms of her policy with Calpe, Miss H was responsible for the first £3,000 of the 
claim. As Calpe had paid the settlement amount the finance company asked for  minus the 
excess and storage and recovery charge  he thought it had acted reasonably. 
Miss H didnt agree. She said as she paid for the insurance for the car, she should be 
compensated for the value of the car. Miss H says her complaint is that Calpe hasnt paid a 
fair amount. She doesnt want to make any kind of profit. The accident was unforeseen. Miss 
H feels Calpe is trying to lower the amount due to the lease agreement she has with the 
finance company.
So Miss H wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Hs policy with Calpe says in the event of a claim she owes an excess of £3,000. Miss 
H doesnt dispute this. The lease agreement Miss H had with the finance company highlights 
that she does not have the option or right to own the car at the end of the agreement. 
Calpes policy says that the most it will pay is the market value of the car at the time of loss. 
In relation to vehicles not owned by the customer, it says the following:
If Your Car belongs to someone else, or is under a hire purchase or leasing 
agreement, The Underwriters will settle the claim with the legal owner.
The finance company  as the legal owner - provided a final settlement figure of £17,291.67 
excluding VAT. Calpe paid the finance company £14,021.67. Calpe deducted the following in 
line with the policy: £3,000 excess and £270 recovery and storage charges.
Calpes policy says it wont pay for recovery or storage costs. These are the responsibility of 
the customer. But it will pay £100 toward towing costs. As a goodwill gesture, Calpe 
arranged for Miss Hs car to be collected from the police pound. This was done six days after 
the incident. The breakdown of the costs was £250 for recovery and £20 a day for six days 
storage. So the total was £370.
I think Calpe dealt with this part of Miss Hs claim reasonably. And I think it correctly settled 
the claim by paying the finance company the final settlement minus the amount Miss H owed 
under her policy. 
An insurance policy is designed to provide indemnity for the insured item. I understand 
Calpe provided incorrect settlement figures to Miss H before the finance company confirmed 
its final settlement. For the confusion caused, Calpe apologised to Miss H. I think this was 
fair. When it issued the final settlement figure to the finance company, it acted correctly and 
in line with the policy. 
The balance Miss H owes the finance company is made up of its termination fees and the 
balance Miss H owes following the deductions Calpe took. If Calpe were to pay Miss H the 
market value for her car, this would put her in a position of betterment  as this is more than 
the amount the owner of the insured car required to indemnify its loss.
I realise Miss H will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think Calpe acted 
reasonably by paying the finance company the final settlement figure it requested  minus 
the deductions Miss H correctly owed under the policy. 
This means I dont think Calpe needs to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman