DRN-2818464
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy HSBC Bank UK Plc (HSBC) wont reimburse him after he was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr M was searching online for some flights abroad. The next day hes said he 
received a call from someone who claimed they were a travel agent, but who later turned out 
to be a scammer, and said they could offer Mr A discounted flights to the country he wanted 
to travel to if he transferred the money directly to their bank account. 
Mr A says he went into branch and was referred to a self-service machine to make the 
£1,300 payment. A couple of days later, Mr A realised hed been the victim of a scam and 
contacted HSBC to report this. It contacted the receiving bank the same day but they said no 
funds remained, so the money couldnt be returned to Mr A.
Mr A made a complaint to HSBC. He said it had failed him in not providing more support in 
branch when he made the payment. HSBC said it did everything it was required to in this 
case and as no funds remained with the receiving bank it was unable to help further.
Mr A brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They 
didnt feel there was any way HSBC couldve checked the receiving account to see if it was 
legitimate. They also didnt feel the payment was significantly unusual enough that HSBC 
ought to have asked more about it before it was made, but, had it done so, they thought the 
payment wouldve appeared legitimate and wouldnt have raised any concerns.
As Mr A didnt accept their findings, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute the payment Mr A made was authorised even though he was the victim 
of a scam. He made the payment himself and under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr A is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
HSBC has said it doesnt have any records of what happened in branch the day Mr A made 
the payment. Given this, the time that has now passed, along with the volume of interactions 
branch staff have each day, I think its unlikely wed be able to get any reliable testimony or 
further information from the branchs staff about what was discussed. 
Mr A has said he went into branch to make the payment specifically because he wanted to 
ask the bank to check the account he was making the payment to was legitimate. He said 
hes been scammed before and wanted to do everything he could to make sure it wasnt 
happening again. Hes said HSBC failed him because it didnt allow him to make the 
payment with a cashier and instead directed him to carry out the transfer at a self-service 
machine. 
But if Mr A wanted to speak to a cashier and was directed to a self-service machine to make 
the payment Ive not seen any reason why he couldnt have declined this request and 
explained he wanted to use a cashier instead. It seems unlikely staff wouldve refused to 
speak to him or help him further if hed asked for this and hes not said thats what 
happened. Ultimately, it was his choice to use this payment method rather than insist on 
speaking to someone to ask advice about the payment he was making. And it does seem 
strange he didnt do this if, as hes suggested, he went into branch specifically with the 
intention of speaking to someone because of his concerns about the legitimacy of the travel 
agent/their account.
It also seems there are other things he reasonably couldve done to check the flights he 
thought he was buying were genuine before he tried to make payment. For example, using 
an internet search to check the company the scammer said they were calling from. Its not 
clear why, if he was concerned in the way he has suggested, he didnt carry out any 
straightforward checks himself before making the payment. Or he could have asked 
someone to do this for him if he felt unable to do this himself. And again, if he thought 
speaking to branch staff was the only way to check what he was doing it seems odd when 
he was directed to a self-service machine he simply made the payment this way.
Mr A has said had he spoken to a cashier, he wouldve asked them to carry out checks on 
the receiving bank account for him. But at the time he made the payment, I wouldve only 
expected HSBC to rely on the account number and sort code provided to confirm the 
account Mr A was making the payment to existed. I wouldnt have expected it to check the 
activity of the receiving bank account or the account holders name, which was with a 
different bank, to establish whether or not the activity on the account appeared legitimate.  
And, in fact, this isnt something I believe it couldve done  in my experience its unlikely the 
receiving bank wouldve provided this information even if HSBC had asked for it.
I also think its reasonable that HSBC was relying on the receiving bank to let it know if there 
were any concerns about the misuse of the receiving account after the money was sent. And 
I havent seen anything to suggest the receiving bank returned the payment or let HSBC 
know about any concerns. In his complaint to HSBC Mr A appears to have said a staff member told him the receiving 
account was legitimate. He hasnt said this to our service. But on balance, I think its unlikely 
staff members wouldve told Mr A the account he was making payment to wasnt a 
scammers account as, for the reasons given above, I dont think theres any way it 
reasonably couldve known this.
Mr A has explained he was vulnerable due to English being his second language and hes 
said branch staff shouldve done more to help him. But theres no way I can know exactly 
what Mr A told staff in branch about his situation or whether it reasonably ought to have 
been clear that he was vulnerable and needed help or advice. And hes not said he 
explained the circumstances of the payment, who it was to or how he was contacted in any 
detail with staff to the extent I think it reasonably ought to have prompted further intervention. 
Essentially, based on what hes said, it seems Mr A chose to use the self-service machine 
rather than discuss his situation with anyone in any detail. So Im not persuaded HSBC has 
missed an opportunity to prevent the payment being made.
I have also considered whether or not the payment was significantly unusual such that 
HSBC ought to have intervened based on this alone, but I dont think it was in this case. 
Although the payment was to a new payee and was for a higher amount than the general 
spending on Mr As account, there is a balance HSBC reasonably has to strike between 
taking steps to prevent fraud and unreasonably hampering an individuals ability to make 
payments and operate their account in the way they wish. 
I think there are regular situations in life where a reasonable person might spend slightly 
more. For example when buying flights, which is something Mr A had done in the past. I 
think the £1,300 Mr A spent does fit generally with the profile of spending on his account.
Im sorry to hear whats happened to Mr A. I can see its been really difficult for him. But 
overall I dont think there was an opportunity for HSBC to have stopped him from making the 
payment he did. So I dont think its fair to hold the bank liable for his loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman