DRN-1556625
The complaint
Miss S complains about the service she received from her insurance broker, BISL Limited 
trading as Dial Direct (Dial Direct). Shes unhappy that Dial Direct changed her underwriter 
at renewal of her policy, while there was an open claim, and that it cancelled her policy 
incorrectly. 
Miss S also says that she told Dial Direct about cracking at her property, but it didnt pass 
this information to her underwriter which resulted in her policy being avoided.
What happened
Miss S brought her complaint to our service through a representative. But for ease of 
reference, Ill only refer to Miss S in this decision.
Miss S took out her buildings and contents insurance policy through Dial Direct in 2016. This 
was renewed in 2017 and 2018. In 2017 Miss S made a claim through the underwriter of her 
policy. The underwriter requested that Direct Dial obtain further information about the claim 
from Miss S. This was still ongoing when the policy was renewed in 2018.
At the 2018 renewal, Dial Direct switched Miss S underwriter to another on its panel  
despite the ongoing claim. After the policy renewed, Dial Direct cancelled Miss S policy in 
error, and subsequently it has been unable to arrange cover for her with any of its panel of 
underwriters. This is due to the condition of Miss S property and because the previous 
underwriter avoided her policy for non-disclosure of a material fact (cracking at the property 
before policy inception).
Miss S complained to Dial Direct about these issues in June 2018. Around this time, she 
also made it aware that she had significant mental health issues. Dial Direct issued two final 
response letters, in July and August 2018. These explained that:
When a policy is due for renewal it searches its panel of underwriters to find the most 
competitive quote, and an email was sent to Miss S which explained her new quote 
and the change of underwriter.
Having reviewed matters it agreed that due to the claim, and queries from the current 
underwriter, it should have placed a referral on Miss S renewal so it would discuss 
the circumstances with its panel of underwriters. Had this happened, Miss S would 
have been made aware that Dial Direct couldnt obtain cover for her and she would 
have been free to seek it elsewhere.
It was incorrect for it to cancel her policy and by way of an apology it would pay £200 
compensation (initially £125 then later an additional £75) as well as refund of the 
premiums paid for the 2018 renewal.
 
Miss S didnt agree that Dial Direct had responded to her fairly, so she brought her complaint 
our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator said that 
even if Dial Direct had renewed Miss S policy with the initial underwriter, her policy would 
still have been avoided and she would have been left without cover. She said she had 
listened to calls between Miss S and Dial Direct and that there was no record of Miss S telling it about cracks to her property. She agreed Dial Direct cancelled the policy in error 
and that this caused Miss S some distress. But overall, she thought it had done enough to 
put this right by refunding premiums and paying £200 compensation.
Miss S didn't accept our investigator's opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In coming to my final decision, I havent considered the decision to avoid the policy as this 
was made by the underwriter and is the subject of another complaint. In this case, Ive only 
considered the actions of Dial Direct.
Miss S has complained about several issues. For ease of reference, Ill address these 
separately.
Disclosing the cracking at her property
Miss S says she told Dial Direct about the cracking at her property over the phone. She says 
it incorrectly told her that she didnt need to disclose this to her underwriter and that it failed 
to pass on the information.
Dial Direct says it has only spoken with Miss S over the phone twice  both of which took 
place in February 2016. It has provided recordings of both calls, which Ive listened to. 
Cracking at Miss S property wasnt mentioned or discussed in either call. So, based on the 
evidence available, I cant reasonably conclude that Miss S made Dial Direct aware of the 
cracking, or that it incorrectly advised her that she didnt need to report cracks to the 
underwriter.
Impact of Miss S health issues
Miss S says that due to her health condition, she wasnt able to understand her policy. Due 
to this, shes said Dial Direct ought to have done more to support her.
Ive thought carefully about this. But from what Ive seen, Dial Direct wasnt made aware of 
Miss S health issues until June 2018. 
During the calls between Miss S and Dial Direct in 2016, Miss S didnt make it aware that 
she had any health conditions or difficulty understanding insurance. In fact, I think she 
appeared to have had a fairly good understanding of how insurance works, based on the 
questions she asked during the calls. She also stated on one of the calls that she used to 
work in the insurance industry. So, I havent seen anything to suggest that Dial Direct was 
aware, or ought to have been aware, that Miss S needed more support. That is, until it was 
made aware of her health issues in 2018.
Cancellation of the policy
Dial Direct has explained that it cancelled Miss S policy in error, because of a 
miscommunication between it and her previous underwriter. It says feedback has been 
provided to the relevant people about what went wrong. And because the policy was 
cancelled in error, Miss S doesnt need to report this cancellation when applying for future 
policies.Following the incorrect cancellation, the condition of Miss S property meant that Dial Direct 
couldnt arrange another policy for her with its panel of underwriters. But it has explained  
that even if it hadnt cancelled the policy in error, the new underwriter would still have 
cancelled/avoided the policy once it became aware of the decision taken by the previous 
underwriter and the reasons for its decision. And its worth noting that if Dial Direct hadnt 
have switched underwriters, Miss S would have remained with the previous underwriter and 
would have still been left without cover once that underwriter decided to avoid her policy. So, 
although Dial Directs error has caused Miss S understandable distress, I dont think its the 
reason she hasnt been able to arrange a new policy.
Dial Direct accepted that its error here had caused distress and has paid Miss S some 
compensation. Ill consider this further in the below section.
Renewal with different underwriter
Dial Direct has pointed out that theres no rule which prevents it switching a customer to a 
different underwriter while there is an open claim. It says that when a policy is due for 
renewal, it searches its panel of underwriters to find the most competitive quote. 
In this case, I have seen that Dial Direct sent an email to Miss S with the details of her 
renewal quote, including that there would be a change of underwriter, and that she didnt 
raise any objections about this. I understand that Miss S health situation at the time may 
have meant she didnt read this information or, that if she did, she possibly wouldnt have 
fully understood the implications. And I do sympathise with her circumstances. But as Ive 
already highlighted, Dial Direct wasnt aware of Miss S health issues at the time, so I cant 
reasonably say that it needed to do anything differently at this point in time.
That said, Dial Direct has accepted that it didnt do everything it could have done, taking into 
account the specific circumstances it was aware of. Given the ongoing claim, it says it 
should have placed a referral on Miss S renewal so that it could discuss the circumstances 
with its panel of underwriters before arranging the renewal. Had it done this, Dial Direct says 
it would have become clear that it wasnt able to arrange a renewal for Miss S, and she 
would have had the opportunity to shop around elsewhere.
Because of this, Dial Direct has paid a full refund of the premiums Miss S was charged for 
the 2018 renewal, to put her back in the position she would have been in at the time. It also 
increased its offer of compensation from £125 to £200 to reflect the distress Miss S has 
suffered as a result of both this issue and the cancellation issue. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I agree that Dial Direct didnt do everything it should have 
done during Miss S 2018 renewal, and that it cancelled her policy in error  which caused 
her understandable distress. But in returning all premiums and paying £200 compensation, I 
think it has provided a fair and reasonable outcome to Miss S complaint. So, I dont think it 
needs to do anything more.
My final decision
BISL Limited, trading as Dial Direct, has already made an offer to refund the premiums 
Miss S was charged for the 2018 renewal, and to pay £200 compensation, to settle the 
complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that BISL Limited, trading as Dial Direct, should pay Miss S these 
amounts  if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Adam Golding
Ombudsman