DRN-4339777
The complaint
Mr H and Miss G have complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) 
told Mr H that his mobile phone would be covered for all eventualities and any claim would 
be paid under the mobile phone insurance when Mr H took out an Ultimate Reward Current 
Account in 2017. 
When Mr H went to claim, he discovered that as he had sent the phone to a third party to sell 
it, he could not make a claim for the loss of his phone when the third party claimed the 
phone was not received.
Mr H says therefore that the URCA, was mis-sold because he was given wrong information 
when it was sold.
I note that the account was changed to a joint account shortly after the account was taken 
out so Miss G is party to this complaint. But the account was just sold to Mr H initially and he 
seems to be the main driver of this complaint so I will just refer to Mr H during this decision.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong.
Mr H disagreed with this and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
For the sake of clarity this decision is only addressing whether the URCA was mis-sold in the 
first place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having weighed everything up, Im not able 
to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is 
the case here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based on all 
of the evidence that is available.
Halifax has told us that the URCA was sold in a branch. Mr H has explained that during this 
sale he was told that he would be covered for essentially anything under the mobile phone 
insurance. I have carefully considered this, but I dont think it likely that this was the case, 
especially as no insurance that I am aware of covers all eventualities and pays out for any 
claim regardless of the circumstances. 
Moreover, the documentation likely provided during the sale, when Miss G was added to the 
account and in yearly documentation summarising the main benefits and exclusions states 
that there are limitations for making a claim under the mobile phone insurance. So I would 
have expected this to have been queried earlier, if Mr H was told that the mobile phone 
insurance would cover everything during the initial sale. So I dont think that Mr H was mis-
led during the sale of the URCA.
I note that Mr H disagrees with why his claim was declined but this is something he would 
have to address with the insurer. Halifax is only responsible for the sale of the account not 
about how claims are handled by the benefit provider.
Therefore, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Halifax provided Mr H with any incorrect or 
mis-leading information about how claims may be settled, when the URCA was sold to him. 
It therefore follows that, in the circumstances, I dont think itd be appropriate to require the 
URCA fees to be refunded to Mr H, as he has requested.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman