DRN-4276899
The complaint
Miss B complains that Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV (Accelerant) has declined to dry 
out her property or test the air quality following an escape of water, under her home 
buildings insurance policy. 
Any reference to Accelerant includes its agents. 
What happened
In June 2022 Miss B contacted Accelerant to report water entering her home from the flat 
above. She says Accelerant has since refused to dry out her property. Its also refused to 
conduct an air quality test. She says her home is contaminated and that black mould is 
growing. Miss B says she has health concerns, and these issues are making things worse.
Miss B says shes unhappy with the standard of service throughout her claim. As well as the 
quality of the hotels she was offered as alternative accommodation.
In its final complaint response Accelerant says it arranged for Miss B to stay in a high-end 
hotel on the evening she reported the escape of water. It says this was an exception and 
wouldnt usually be agreed. It says it didnt contact Miss B in a timely manner when the 
booking ended. This meant she was left sitting in the hotel reception. 
Accelerant says that throughout Miss Bs claim it offered appropriate hotel accommodation. 
But it agreed to pay her £50 compensation for the distress it caused when not contacting her 
after the initial booking period ended.
Miss B wasnt satisfied with Accelerants response and referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He says the contractor sent to inspect Miss Bs 
property reported it was dry. He says a small amount of mould was found in the bathroom. 
But it hadnt been shown that this was linked to the escape of water Miss B reported. He 
says no evidence had been provided to support Miss Bs claim about the effect on her health 
due to poor air quality. 
Our investigator identified some issues in the business appointing alternative 
accommodation for Miss B. But he felt the £50 compensation Accelerant offered was fair. He 
added that the business had made exceptions to the usual policy limits by covering the cost 
of luxury accommodation.  
Miss B didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to consider 
her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. Let me explain. 
Accelerant issued its final complaint response on 16 June 2022. This dealt with Miss Bs 
concerns about alternative accommodation. We asked the business if it had also dealt with 
the air quality and drying issues as part of Miss Bs complaint. As this wasnt mentioned in its 
complaint response. It pointed to a later letter dated 27 June 2022 in which it references 
these issues. 
Under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) dispute resolution, or DISP rules, our service 
can only consider a complaint once its been referred to the business. Accelerant has 
provided a response to these issues and hasnt disputed these points being considered as 
part of my decision. Because of this it means Im able to consider these issues here. 
I can see that Accelerant arranged for a drying specialist to inspect Miss Bs property after 
she made her claim. Its report is dated 20 June 2022. The report says:
Moisture readings taken at the time of our inspection indicate that all previously affected 
materials are currently dry A visual inspection confirmed that a small amount of microbial 
growth is present within the toilet on one wall At this stage no assisted drying is 
necessary   
The drying specialist does recommend testing of the microbial growth to see if any further 
action is needed. However, the loss adjustor assigned to Miss Bs claim didnt think this was 
necessary. The loss adjustors view is that the damage to the property wasnt recent. This 
followed an inspection and interview with Miss B on 22 June 2022. The report provided 
refers to previous water damage claims that date back to 2019, following which repairs 
hadnt been completed. 
The loss adjustor refers to Miss Bs demands for high end alternative accommodation. It 
says suitable hotels were offered but these were rejected. 
Based on this evidence there was no requirement for drying work at Miss Bs property. I 
havent seen evidence that links the bathroom mould to the escape of water claim from June 
2022. Rather the indication is that this mould is unrelated to the claim. In its letter dated 27 
June Accelerant reiterates that the mould isnt connected to Miss Bs most recent claim, 
suggesting its more likely the mould is due to historic issues. 
Ive thought carefully about whether Accredited should have arranged for air quality testing 
and made provisions for drying work. But the evidence doesnt support this. Im not 
persuaded by Miss Bs comments or her evidence that her June 2022 claim has left her 
property requiring drying work, or that it caused mould growth. 
This means there is no requirement for Accelerant to conduct testing, as any possible air 
quality issue isnt linked to Miss Bs claim. Ive read the medical records she provided. But as 
discussed the inspection findings revealed no link between Miss Bs claim and the small 
amount of mould that was found on one wall in her toilet. 
Ive thought about Miss Bs comments that she received a poor standard of service, and the 
hotel accommodation she was offered wasnt reasonable. 
Miss Bs policy terms say:
Loss of rent and cost of Alternative Accommodation: We will pay loss of rent and reasonable costs of comparable accommodation (including 
storage of contents and the cost of accommodation of domestic pets where not more 
specifically insured) incurred by you or the resident of the buildings during the period 
necessary to restore the buildings to a habitable condition if the buildings are rendered 
uninhabitable due to any loss or damage caused by perils 1 to 13 of this section.  
Ive seen the invoices and claim records relating to the accommodation Miss B was offered. 
The records show efforts were made to locate a suitable self-catering property. Miss B was 
accommodated in her choice of high-end hotel for some of the period she wasnt staying at 
home. I can see that Miss B wasnt satisfied with some of the other hotels that were 
arranged for her. But based on the evidence Ive seen, including receipts from the hotels 
Miss B stayed at, the standard of hotel appears reasonable. 
Hotel accommodation isnt self-catering, and therefore not strictly comparable with Miss Bs 
property. But accommodation was provided in addition to a meal allowance. I dont think 
Miss Bs policy provides for the luxury hotel rooms she was initially placed in. I think it was 
reasonable that Accelerant agreed to this accommodation, for reasons of expediency and to 
accommodate the health issues she described. But I dont agree that it acted unfairly when 
subsequently arranging less expensive hotel rooms. 
Ive not seen anything in the claim records that shows Miss B was provided with a poor 
standard of service. The records show that Accrediteds agents made reasonable efforts to 
accommodate Miss Bs requirements. This included arranging high end hotel 
accommodation, outside of the policy requirements. The business acknowledges one 
instance when Miss B had to wait in a hotel lobby for a period. It paid her £50 compensation 
for the inconvenience this caused. I think this was fair. But I havent otherwise seen evidence 
that shows a poor standard of service was provided. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think Accredited treated Miss B unfairly when it declined 
to arrange drying works, or to test the air quality in her property. I think it behaved 
reasonably, and in line with its policy terms and conditions with respect to the alternative 
accommodation it arranged. There was a communication issue when Miss B had to wait in a 
hotel lobby, but Accredited did enough to put this right with an apology and its offer of £50 
compensation. So, I cant fairly ask the business to do anymore to resolve Miss Bs 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman