DRN-3385212
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money was 
irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr N with the following loan:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan 
status
17/11/20 £2,000 24
months£133.52 £3,204.48 Outstanding
Mr N complained that 118 118 Money hadnt carried out proper checks before lending to 
him.
118 118 Money looked into his complaint. It said it had carried out proper checks and it 
thought the loan was affordable. 
Mr N referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think 
118 118 Money had carried out proper checks in respect of the loan but thought that if 118 
118 Money had done so, it wouldnt have seen anything to suggest that Mr N wouldnt be 
able to sustainably repay the loan. 
As Mr N didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ns complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr N would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr N wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ns ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr N undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr N. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan applications.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint.
When this loan was taken out, Mr N told 118 118 Money his income was £2,362 and his rent 
£393.74. 118 118 Money said it checked his income using an online verification tool.
118 118 Moneys credit search showed that Mr Ns total borrowing was £6,737 spread over 
nine active accounts. Hed had two defaults in the previous 36 months. One default was still 
outstanding with a balance of £750. He was over his credit limit on some accounts. His credit 
commitments were around £424.45 a month and with the new loan repayment to 118 118 
Money would total £557.97, which would still be under a quarter of his monthly income.
I find it surprising that the defaulted loan account hadnt been settled sometime after it first 
went into default and also that Mr N had exceeded his credit limits on some accounts if his 
disposable income was as high as hed told 118 118 Money. And with that being the case, I think there were some questions as to what Mr Ns financial circumstances were really like. 
Due to these factors I think 118 118 Money should have done further checks to assure itself 
that Mr N would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way over the 24 month term and 
carried out a more thorough review of Mr Ns finances. As I cant see that this was done, I 
dont think that the checks carried out before providing Mr N with this loan were reasonable 
and proportionate.
Ive looked at Mr Ns bank statements from around the time he applied for this loan. Im not 
suggesting here that these are the checks that 118 118 Money should necessarily have 
done. But I think looking at these would have given a good indication of the extent of Mr Ns 
financial situation at this time. These show that before he took out the loan Mr Ns average 
salary was actually more than hed told 118 118 Money. The bank account never went into 
overdraft and seemed to be reasonably well managed.
Overall, while I recognise that Mr N had defaulted on two accounts some time before 118 
118 Money lent to him, I cant see anything that would have clearly indicated that its loan 
was likely to have been unaffordable for Mr N. And for that reason, Im not persuaded that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would or should have led 118 118 Money to a different 
decision on his loan application.
Ive also thought about whether 118 118 Money acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman