DRN-4247840
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK plc (Santander)misled him over a declined transaction. 
He would like a refund of losses incurred as a result.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
There is no dispute that Mr J made a transaction with two different airline providers 
believing Santander had declined his first transaction. I understand he received a 
partial refund from the second provider. The issue for me to decide is whether 
Santander did anything wrong and, if so, whether the £100 compensation it has 
already paid is sufficient.
Mr J says Santander accepted responsibility for the problem  in its final response 
letter (frl). So, on this basis Santander should fully compensate him. I dont think its 
as simple as that .The frl does say the issue was caused by an error on  Santanders 
part. However, it qualifies this statement  with points it cant be certain about, and it 
has explained to us the £100 paid was a gesture of goodwill.
Mr J says in a phone call on 14 December 2022  Santander told him the first 
transaction wouldnt go through. I cant be sure what was said on the phone call as 
Santander has been unable to locate it. 
Santanders records show an initial transaction declined due to fraud prevention 
measures at 15.59 on 13 December 2022. The payment then went through at 16.01. 
Mr J has sent us a copy of two text messages Santander sent on 13 December 2022. 
The first at 16.01 flags the need to check recent activity  and says it will send details 
of the transaction which it did at 16.02 asking Mr J to confirm the transaction . Mr J 
says he didnt do this but given the timing of the text messages in relation to when 
the transaction was approved I think its possible he did,
I am mindful that Mr J has told us the reason he didnt get any transaction 
confirmation from the first airline was because it had the wrong email address. Had it 
had the correct email address the problem wouldnt have arisen as  Mr J would have 
had his transaction acknowledged.  I cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for 
Mr J not getting confirmation of his first transaction. And, of course, Mr J could have 
contacted the airline to see if his transaction had been successful.
Looking at all the information whilst there was clearly some confusion over the 
transactions I cant be sure that the fault was entirely Santanders . I think he £100 
payment it made was reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman