DRN-3670233
The complaint
Mr W complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) acted irresponsibly in providing him with an 
overdraft and increasing his limit. He says the charges applied to him were unfair and is 
unhappy with the default recorded on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr W had an overdraft facility with TSB rising to a limit of £3,000 in March 2017. Mr W got 
into financial difficulties in 2018 and entered an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) 
completing in April 2021. Mr Ws account was transferred to TSB recoveries department and 
was closed with an outstanding balance and a default recorded on his credit file. 
Mr W complained to TSB in January 2022 that it should never have agreed an overdraft 
facility for him because it was unaffordable. TSB did not consent to this service looking at 
any applications prior to six years ago (January 2016) and didnt agree that it had lent 
irresponsibly. 
However, on review of the account history TSB felt it couldve done more to help Mr W and 
refunded all bank charges from 1 January 2016 totalling £776.52 and applied this to the 
outstanding balance on his overdraft debt of £1,764.61.
Mr W was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. Mr W thinks it was 
unfair that TSB recorded a default on his credit file and that the refund was applied to the 
overdraft debt because it was the subject of his IVA which had come to an end.  
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ws complaint and thought that TSB had dealt with his 
complaint fairly and didnt think it needed to do anything further. And so Mr W has asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what TSB has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Where a business accepts (or we decide) it did something wrong, wed expect the business 
to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in 
an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in the position theyd now be in if they 
hadnt been charged the fees and given the credit they shouldnt have and we may award 
modest compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
So where a business provides a consumer with a credit facility which it shouldnt have wed 
typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any 
interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the 
interest and charges added to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised the 
credit was wrongly provided. 
But I dont need to make a finding on this point as TSB has already done what Id expect it to 
do had I found it had lent irresponsibly from the point we are able to look back to (January 
2016). Mr W might feel that because his IVA had come to an end any refund from TSB 
should have been paid to him directly. But just because the IVA has come to an end doesnt 
mean there is no outstanding debt  only that TSB will not pursue him for it. And applying the 
refund to this debt is standard practice. It wouldnt be fair to pay this to Mr W when there is a 
debt outstanding and TSB is entitled to recoup its losses.
I understand Mr W is also unhappy about negative information being reported on his credit 
file and would like this information removed. But TSB does have a duty to make sure the 
information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to 
is factually accurate and what TSB has reported is an accurate account of what happened  
he may no longer be liable for the remaining overdraft debt but it is still outstanding. So I 
cant say that TSB has done anything wrong here. 
So, bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that what TSB has already done for Mr W is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what TSB Bank plc has already done is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman