DRN-3015798
The complaint
This complaint is about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim under the 
late Mrs Ls home insurance policy. It is brought by the executors of the estate of Mrs L, who 
Ill refer to as Mr and Mrs T. Mr and Mrs T complained that the claim by the estate of Mrs L 
was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T said a decorator employed to decoratenoticed water damage at bedroom 
skirting level inside on the rear external rear wall. The water damage is immediately behind 
the lead flashing which is part of the conservatory roof, this [was] fitted 12 years ago. A crack 
in the external render extends behind the flashing, and its my belief that water has 
penetrated the wall behind the flashing causing internal plaster to deteriorate.
Mr and Mrs T raised a claim as soon as they were aware of the leak. Aviva initially indicated 
it was likely the claim would be declined as it thought the problem was due to the cracking of 
the render. Mr and Mrs T persisted with the claim, so it was escalated. Mr and Mrs T were 
asked to provide photographs of the damage which they did. On reviewing the photographs, 
Aviva still declined the claim. It said, from the information we have received during your 
telephone call to our office and the photographs, this does not appear to be subsidence 
related and my colleagues have advised the damage may be down to gradual damage, 
which is clearly excluded under your household policy.
Aviva said it was willing to reconsider its decision if further evidence was provided to show 
that an insured event had occurred. Aviva said a structural engineers report would be 
required to prove that the underlying cause of the damage was subsidence, which it said 
would be been covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs T said, Avivas request that I employ a structural engineer was unreasonable 
especially in light of them not attending the site, this extent of surveying would have cost 
more than the repair which they would have known, it was a cop-out, knowing that I would 
not go ahead with that action. Mr and Mrs T were unhappy that they didnt receive a copy of 
the policy when they requested it from Aviva and thought that Aviva were too quick in 
declining the claim.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was anything in 
the information provided to Aviva that would make them reasonably think the damage was 
caused by an event covered under the policy. Mr and Mrs T disagreed, so the case has 
been referred to an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to the friends and family of the late Mrs L and whilst Id like to bring better 
news, unfortunately I wont be able to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs T made the claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most 
likely caused the damage. An insurer may choose to do investigations of its own  including 
inspecting the damage  to decide whether an insured event caused the damage or not. 
Sometimes it will be clear, for example if theres been a significant fire or flood. Other times it 
will be less clear. This is a very well-established approach across the insurance industry.
In this claim, I dont think Mr and Mrs T has shown, on the balance of probabilities, that an 
insured event caused the damage. Mr and Mrs T were unhappy that Aviva didnt visit the 
property in person to assess the damage. Instead, its claims team reviewed photographs 
that were provided by Mr and Mrs T. There is no mandatory requirement for Aviva to visit the 
property to inspect the damage. Instead, it asked its experienced claims team to review the 
photographs and consider the testimony that Mr and Mrs T provided. On that basis, using 
the information that was available, it felt confident to decline the claim.
I do understand why Mr and Mrs T wouldve been annoyed at the speed at which Aviva 
initially indicated the claim would likely be declined and before it had examined the 
photographs. I do think Aviva were rash and it shouldve waiting until the photographs were 
available before commenting. However, whilst this wouldve been frustrating for Mr and Mrs 
T, it hasnt caused an incorrect conclusion to be drawn for the claim, so I dont think this 
rashness warrants compensation.
Aviva gave Mr and Mrs T the opportunity of providing further evidence, such as a structural 
engineers report in order to prove subsidence. Aviva wouldve refunded the costs of this 
report if it did provide evidence. However, I can understand why Mr and Mrs T didnt want to 
go ahead with this as they didnt think the damage was caused by subsidence themselves 
and so, they thought the cost of getting a report was prohibitive and not worth doing. I 
wouldnt have expected Aviva to commission a report, as its inspection of the photographs 
and consideration of the testimony, allowed them to determine the cause wasnt subsidence. 
Using its experience of considering many similar claims, it thought the damage may be 
down to gradual damage, which is excluded in the policy. I think Aviva has been fair in 
offering Mr and Mrs T the opportunity of providing further evidence if they wanted to. Aviva 
has followed a standard claims process, which I think is a reasonable approach.
Mr and Mrs T didnt receive the terms and conditions when it requested them. I can 
understand this wouldve been both annoying and frustrating. Its unclear whether the policy 
was sent. However, it wouldnt have an impact on my decision. I have looked at other ways 
the claim maybe covered by the policy, such as storm damage, accidental damage or 
escape of water. But unfortunately, for the claim to be valid, Mr and Mrs T would need to 
provide evidence that a one-off, identifiable event caused the damage. The builder who 
repaired the damage was unable to provide a direct cause for the cracking of the render. Mr 
and Mrs Ts testimony suggests the direct cause is unknown, they said the water got behind 
the flashing, this is clear, the cause is unclear, no one knows. As no evidence has been put 
forward of a one-off event, I think Avivas conclusion of gradual damage is the most likely 
cause. If the property had been better maintained, I dont think water wouldve penetrated 
the external walls as it has. I understand why Mr and Mrs T thinks a storm in the past may 
have contributed to any damage, but as I cant be certain of this or determine if it was the 
main cause of the damage, it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Aviva liable for this. I still think 
Avivas conclusion of gradual damage is the most likely scenario on the balance of 
probabilities. Therefore, I am not upholding this complaint and I dont need Aviva to do 
anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited 
to do anymore.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs L 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman