DRN-3060290
The complaint
Mr W complains that a rental property he booked for a break was not as described. Because 
he used his credit card, issued by Tesco Personal Finance PLC, to pay for the property, he 
says that Tesco is jointly liable with the property owner to compensate him.
What happened
Mr W has explained that he routinely hires a large property to celebrate new year with 
friends and family. In or about December 2018 he identified a suitable property for the 
following year  December 2019. It was described as a mansion capable of sleeping up to 
34 guests. It also offered to cater for weddings and corporate events. Mr W agreed to book 
the entire property at a cost of £6,500.
He made the payment in instalments, the first in December 2018 with his Tesco credit card 
and the remainder by transfers from his bank account. The final payment was made in 
October 2019.
In early December 2019  a few weeks before his planned stay  Mr W visited the property 
for the first time, mainly it seems to enable him to organise sleeping arrangements for his 
guests. He was not however happy with what he found. He says that much of the 
accommodation was dirty, the furnishings did not match what was on the suppliers website, 
he had been told there were two dishwashers but only one was working and there was no 
fireplace as had been advertised.
The owner of the property offered to have it steam cleaned, but Mr W did not think that was 
sufficient. It could not be brought up to the standard he had expected from the website and 
discussions with the owner. He booked an alternative property at a cost of £9,600.
Mr W referred the matter to Tesco. Because he had paid part of the rental with his credit 
card, he thought that it should reimburse the full amount he had paid and the additional 
amount he had paid for the alternative accommodation he had rented.
Tesco Bank did not agree. It said that his concerns with the property were largely a matter of 
standards of service and not covered by section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It was 
not persuaded either that the position had been misrepresented by the property owner. Mr W 
referred the case to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. She did not believe that the 
property owner had been in breach of contract but did think that the property had been 
represented in two respects: the marketing material said there was a fireplace in the grand 
hall, but there was not; and Mr W had been told there were two dishwashers, but there was 
only one. She recommended that Tesco pay Mr W the cost of the booking plus interest at 
8% a year.
Tesco did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different view from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. I concluded, in summary:
Although the position was not entirely clear, I accepted that the necessary links were 
present between the property owner and Tesco to make Tesco liable under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for any breach of contract or misrepresentation on the 
part of the owner.
I thought that, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, it was an implied term of the rental 
contract that the property would meet certain cleanliness standards. It was however 
difficult to assess from the photographs Mr W had provided what condition the property 
had been in. I noted too that the owner had offered to deep clean the property before Mr 
Ws stay.
I did not however think it was a breach of contract if the furnishings and equipment in 
the property did not exactly match what was in the brochure and on the propertys 
website. The description of the property as opulent or decadent were subjective 
terms and could not form the basis of a claim for breach of contract. 
I accepted that Mr W had been told that the main hall had a fireplace and that the 
property had two dishwashers. By the time of the planned visit, it only had one 
dishwasher. I did not believe however that this was s key factor in Mr Ws decision to 
rent the property. I also took the view that the property did have a fireplace  meaning 
the space in a room where a fireplace is or would have been lit. The wood-burning stove 
had been replaced with a wooden chest, but I did not think that meant there was no 
fireplace. 
In the circumstances, I thought that Tescos response to Mr Ws claim under section 75 
had been reasonable and I did not recommend it do anything more to resolve his 
complaint about that response.    
Mr W did not accept my provisional decision. 
In response to it, he said that the fireplace did not have a flue and could not be used to light 
a fire. The representations about the property included out of date photographs on the 
website. Had the descriptions said, for example, that the furniture had been replaced, that it 
was not possible to light a fire and that the lower rooms smelt damp, he would not have 
placed a booking. Mr W invited me to review my provisional decision and to reach the same 
conclusion as the investigator had done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I indicated in my provisional decision, it is not for me to say whether or not the property 
owner was in breach of contract or whether Mr W has a claim in misrepresentation against 
him. My decision here does not affect any rights Mr W may have to bring such claims. What I 
have to decide is whether Tescos response to Mr Ws claim under section 75 was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I accept of course that Mr W was disappointed with the quality of the property when he came 
to view it. He had by then agreed to rent it and had paid in full. I have no doubt that he would 
not have booked it if he had viewed it earlier. 
That does not mean however that Tesco ought to have accepted and met Mr Ws claims 
under section 75. There was, as I have indicated, a degree of subjectivity about some of the 
issues he raised. Further, the evidence of the quality of the quality of the accommodation was  for perfectly understandable reasons  fairly limited. This was not a case where, for 
example, the owner declined to provide the property that Mr W had agreed to rent at the time 
he had agreed to rent it. And he had offered to take steps to rectify some of Mr Ws 
concerns. 
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view 
that Tescos response to Mr Ws claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.         
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to do anything more to 
resolve Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman