DRN-1692090
The complaint
Mrs H complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the PPI was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) have taken 
responsibility for this sale and so the complaint has been set up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Mrs H took out a store card in 2003. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI cost £1.50 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It would have paid 15% of 
the outstanding balance per month if Mrs H was off work sick or lost her job. It would have 
done so until the balance was cleared or until Mrs H returned to work. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld because he didnt think the 
cost and benefit of the policy had been made clear to Mrs H. If it had been made clear then 
he didnt think Mrs H would have taken the policy out as it wouldnt have been of good value 
for money in her circumstances.
AXA didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Although AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H (so they didnt have to take adequate 
steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mrs H) they still had to provide Mrs H with clear 
information about the policy so that she could make an informed decision about whether or 
not to take the policy out. In particular, this included clearly setting out the true cost and 
benefit of the policy.
Ive looked at the documents from the time of the sale and I cant see that at the time when 
Mrs H was asked to make a selection for PPI that the costs and benefits were set out clearly. 
For example, it wasnt made clear to Mrs H that premiums would need to continue being 
paid during a claim - or that interest would be added to the monthly premiums if the balance 
wasnt cleared in full. 
Im satisfied if Mrs H had been given better information, she wouldnt have taken out the 
policy.  Mrs H has told us that her employer wouldve paid her 6 months full pay followed by 
6 months half pay if she was off sick.  I have no reason to doubt what Mrs H has told us. 
Looking at her existing means at the time of the sale, I dont think Mrs H wouldve thought 
she needed PPI because she had enough cover herself.  So she wouldnt have thought the 
policy was of good value for money for her.
So I think Mrs H was mis-sold this PPI policy.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs H would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs H owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when AXA works out what Mrs H would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs H 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs H 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 15% a year 
until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
C. AXA should tell Mrs H what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give   
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint against AXA France IARD and require them to pay Mrs H the 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman