DRN-3882207
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined a claim on their home 
insurance for damage to their roof during a storm.
QIC used a third party company to handle Mr and Mrs Os claim and most of their 
correspondence has been with this company rather than directly with QIC. For the avoidance 
of doubt, any reference to QIC includes its agents, including the claims handling company.
What happened
On 18 February 2022, during storm Eunice, tiles were blown off Mr and Mrs Os roof, 
landing on and causing damage to their conservatory roof.
QICs surveyor inspected the damage on 14 March 2022. He concluded: The main 
roof displayed signs of damage consistent with recent storm, evident by partial 
displacement of the concrete ridge and roof tiles at the apex. The rear uPVC lean-to 
conservatory also sustained consequential impact damage as a result of the fallen 
ridge/roof tiles impacting upon the polycarbonate roof sheets and glazing bars.
The surveyor told Mr O to get quotes for repairs. He later told Mr O to go ahead with 
repairs to the main roof and send the invoice to QIC for reimbursement. 
The company that supplied their conservatory ceased trading in lockdown, so Mr Os 
builder couldnt source roof bars to replace the damaged ones. The builders quote 
for replacing the conservatory roof was £10,237.
QIC declined the claim. It said the roof tiles came loose because the mortar had 
deteriorated gradually over time. It said this meant the main cause of damage was 
wear and tear, not a storm, so wasnt covered by Mr Os policy.
Mr and Mrs O dont understand why QIC declined their claim when its surveyor 
agreed the damage was caused by the storm. They want QIC to settle their claim. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. She thought 
QICs on-site surveyor was more likely to be right that the storm caused the damage. 
She didnt think QIC had shown the damage was due to wear and tear, so didnt think 
it was fair for it to decline the claim. She asked QIC to settle Mr and Mrs Os claim, 
refund them £300 (plus interest) for repairs already done to their tiled roof, and pay 
them £200 compensation for the inconvenience QIC caused them.
QIC disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me for my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigators comprehensive assessment of this complaint.
Section 1.3 of their policy booklet shows Mr and Mrs O are covered for loss or 
damage caused by a storm. 
Both parties agree there were storm conditions the day the roof was damaged. 
I agree with the findings of the surveyor who visited Mr Os property that the damage 
was consistent with being caused by storm Eunice. 
I dont accept QICs later claim that photos of the roof show the tiles came off due to 
the gradual deterioration of mortar, or its argument that the tiles that were blown off 
the roof were already loose. 
Im satisfied, therefore, that the damage to the main roof and consequential damage 
to the conservatory roof were both caused by the storm.
This means Im satisfied the damage to both roofs is covered by Mr and Mrs Os 
policy. QIC should settle the rest of the claim so they can have their conservatory 
roof repaired.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require QIC Europe Limited to:
Settle Mr Os claim in line with the policy settlement terms.
Refund Mr and Mrs O £300 for the repairs to their tiled roof, plus interest at 8% per 
annum from the date they paid their builder to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs O £200 to reflect the inconvenience QICs handling of their claim has 
caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman