DRN-2023533
The complaint
In summary, Mr M has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV), 
didnt make him aware of the outcome of an insurance claim that had been made against 
him. He thinks this resulted in him making a false statement to his new insurer. He also 
believes that the claim made by the third-partys insurer was excessive. 
What happened
In June 2018, Mr Ms vehicle clipped a parked car. LVs records indicate that Mr M hadnt 
known about the incident until the police called him. But the incident was witnessed and 
reported to the police, who contacted Mr M to let him know what had happened. 
Mr M then informed LV of the incident. LVs records indicate that in a telephone call with one 
of LVs call handlers, Mr M said he had checked his vehicle and found damage to the 
nearside front of his vehicle and he had taken some images. It had no record of receiving 
any pictures from Mr M.
The third-partys insurer made a claim against Mr Ms insurance policy. It provided details of 
the repairs and LV agreed to pay the claim based on the information it had about the 
incident. 
But LV didnt tell Mr M that it had settled the claim. And when he later took out insurance 
with another insurance company, Mr M said that this led him to him inadvertently giving an 
incorrect answer to a question from his new insurer, about whether he had any insurance 
claims made against him. 
Mr M complained to LV. In summary he said that he wasnt happy that he hadnt been told 
that a claim had been made or that it had been settled, he wasnt asked for his version of 
events or for his opinion on the value of the claim. He disputed the damage to the third-party 
vehicle and said his vehicle only had a minor scratch to the wing. 
LV investigated Mr Ms concerns. It accepted that Mr M was told he would be updated on 
any third party claim when it was made, and that this didnt happen. It offered £75 as a 
gesture of goodwill for the lack of communication on its part. 
Mr Ms concerns were looked into by one of investigators. She explained why she thought 
LV was entitled to settle the claim in the way that it had and that £150 was a more 
appropriate sum to compensate Mr M for the inconvenience he had been caused.
LV accepted the investigators assessment, but Mr M didnt agree and explained why to the 
investigator. The investigator responded to Mr Ms concerns explaining why she wasnt 
persuaded to change her initial view on his complaint. As Mr M remained dissatisfied with 
the answers the investigator had given him, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Communication with Mr M
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that LV didnt inform Mr M that a claim had been made by 
the third party, which it settled without telling him. And I accept that this was very likely to 
have been embarrassing and concerning for Mr M when he found out about it. 
I say this because it led to Mr M inadvertently providing an incorrect answer to his new 
insurer about whether there had been any claims against him in the past. And Im satisfied 
that this was distressing and worrying for Mr M. Ive not seen any evidence that not being 
made aware of the third-party claim has had any financial consequences for Mr M. And I 
think £150 is an appropriate figure to compensate Mr M for the distress and inconvenience 
he has suffered as a result of LVs mistake.
Liability and third-party losses
The terms of Mr Ms policy provided LV with the discretion to settle the claim as it felt 
appropriate. But in doing so it still had to exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way. 
In considering the issue of liability, its not for me to determine who was responsible for the 
accident. That is a matter for the courts to decide. But I can consider if LV acted fairly in how 
it investigated the issue of liability and whether it reached a reasonable decision based on 
the available evidence. And I can also consider if LV acted reasonably in settling the losses 
claimed by the third party.
Looking at the available evidence I dont think it was unreasonable of LV to deal with the 
issue of liability and settle the claim in the way that it did. I say this because the incident was 
witnessed and reported to the police. And although Mr M appears to have been unaware 
that there had been an incident, he told LV that there was some damage to his vehicle. 
What is in dispute is the amount of damage caused to Mr Ms vehicle and the third-party 
vehicle in the incident. Mr M has said that the only damage caused was to his wing mirror. 
But LV has said that it in a phone call with Mr M when the incident was first reported, he said 
that he had found some damage to the nearside front of his car. 
Unfortunately, there arent any photos of the damage to Mr Ms car and LV hasnt provided 
the call recording it had with Mr M. But photos have been provided by the third partys 
insurer of the damage to the third-party vehicle and a breakdown of the cost of the repairs.
 
Although Mr M disputes the level of damage, he hasnt been able to provide any substantial 
evidence about how the incident occurred. I think its significant that whilst Mr M wasnt 
aware there had been an incident, there was an independent witness to it. LV has 
commented on the breakdown of costs provided by the third-party insurers. Its explained 
that a substantial proportion of the costs were for labour and it didnt consider the cost of 
repairs unreasonable taking into account the damage that had to be repaired.  And the 
explanation it has given seems credible to me taking into account the evidence Ive seen.
As Ive explained above, Mr Ms policy terms allowed LV to settle the claim. It didnt need Mr Ms agreement or approval. Even if Mr M had been notified of the third-party claim and 
had been able to make the submissions he has made since becoming aware of it, I dont 
think that would have made a difference. 
I say this because even if he had been able to put his views to LV, considering all of the 
evidence and arguments Ive seen, and for the reasons Ive explained above; I dont think LV 
has acted unreasonably in the way it has settled the claim. Whilst I acknowledge Mr Ms 
concerns, I simply dont have enough evidence in this case to say that it did act 
unreasonably in the way it settled the claim.
Putting things right
If Mr M accepts my decision, Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr M 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold in part, Mr Ms complaint about Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman