DRN-4439386
The complaint
Mr H complains that Succession Wealth Management Ltd (Succession) terminated its 
agreement to provide him with advice, removed access to its investment platform preventing 
him from obtaining valuations of his Self-Invested Personal Pension Plan (SIPP), and failed 
to communicate this to him in a timely manner. He wants compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Only Mr H has made a complaint but his wife, Mrs H, was similarly impacted and Mr H 
referred to her in his complaint with Succession, so I will also refer to Mrs H as necessary in 
this decision. 
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H had dealt with Succession, their independent financial adviser, for several 
years. Their investments were held on Successions investment platform (the platform). The 
client agreement provided for ongoing investment advice and recommendations in return for 
a fee of 1% per annum of the value of the fund invested, subject to a minimum fee of £2,500 
per annum each. Their adviser (Adviser A) was leaving Succession and was placed on 
gardening leave on 31 October 2022. Succession says it appointed Adviser B to Mr H and 
Mr Hs accounts and the intention had been that Adviser A would make the introductions, but 
this hadnt happened before Mr H contacted Succession in December 2022. 
Mr H was an experienced investor, who had worked in the financial services industry as an 
investment fund manager. He wanted to invest £100,000 of the cash currently held in his 
SIPP into a specific fixed interest fund. This fund wasnt on Successions internal approved 
investment list. So, it was dealt with on an execution only basis, meaning Succession 
provided no advice as to the merits or otherwise of the transaction and wasnt responsible 
for any adverse outcome. Mr H referred to this as the transaction having been indemnified 
by him. This process required the approval of Successions compliance department and 
Adviser B liaised with it in respect of this. Approval was granted in view of Mr Hs investment 
experience and his capacity for loss, and the investment was made. 
Mr H then called Succession on 28 March 2023, as he wanted to withdraw £20,000 to invest 
into an ISA before the end of the tax year. Mrs H wished to do the same. Succession said it 
had disengaged and was no longer acting for either of them. It said a letter had been sent 
about this on 13 March 2023. Mr H hadnt received this and he raised a complaint about 
what had happened the next day. On 31 March 2023, Succession said it would reverse the 
disengagement and would continue to provide services. It apologised for any 
misunderstanding. Mr H says he and his wife were able to complete the ISA exercise in time, 
but the delay caused inconvenience and stress. 
On 6 April 2023 Succession emailed Mr H to say that the disengagement was going ahead, 
and services wouldnt be available. Mr H queried this, and Succession called back the same 
day to confirm the email had been sent in error. It said Royal Mail had returned its original 
letter of 13 March 2023 as undelivered, and a staff member had mistakenly emailed Mr H 
without first checking the file. It apologised for this and confirmed it was still acting for Mr H 
and Mrs H.
Succession upheld Mr Hs complaint in its final response of 25 May 2023. It said it shouldnt 
have disengaged and the communication with him hadnt been good enough. It said as 
compensation for this it would refund the adviser fees taken between March and May, a total 
of £1,374.94. It was subsequently clarified that this sum was the total of the fees on his and 
Mrs Hs accounts.
Mr H didnt think the explanation given or compensation offered was adequate. He said 
Succession had a duty to communicate clearly with clients under the regulators Principles 
and it hadnt done so. He said due to a recent data breach at Succession (which he has 
raised a separate complaint about) hed been caused considerable distress, to have then 
been locked out of Successions systems which had exposed him to risk.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it and he said it 
should be upheld. 
But he said the compensation already offered by Succession was more than he would have 
recommended in the circumstances, and it neednt do more than this. He said Succession 
could disengage with clients if it wished. But had made an error here which it accepted and 
had apologised for. He said it hadnt held any of Mr H's funds itself. Instead, these were held 
by the operator of the platform (IFDL) and this point had recently been confirmed to Mr H in 
respect of his complaint about the data breach. So, his money had never been at risk when it 
disengaged with him. He said Mr H could have accessed information from IFDL had he 
wanted it. Our investigator said whilst Mr H had already been provided with this information, 
Succession could have confirmed he was aware of this.
Our investigator said whilst Mr H said hed been concerned that he wouldnt have been 
alerted to any sharp fall in the value of investments (the 10% drop rule) as required by the 
regulations, this hadnt occurred. And he thought it likely that Succession would have 
informed Mr H had this happened. Our investigator said whilst it usually contacted Mr H by 
email, it wasnt wrong to send the disengagement letter by post. 
Our investigator said disengagement was considered by Succession as it appeared its 
services might not be needed following a review of the execution only instruction of 
December 2022. It was concluded, incorrectly, with the involvement of Adviser B (who had 
since left Succession), that Mr H no longer wanted the services. But he said when Mr H 
contacted Succession in March 2023 it had responded promptly and reinstated him as a 
customer, so hed only been aware he was disengaged for three days. And whilst another 
error had been made in sending the email in April 2023, this had been cleared up on the 
same day and hadnt damaged Mr Hs financial position. 
Our investigator said that the regulatory concerns Mr H had made werent something our 
service could consider but could be raised with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). He 
said whilst Succession had made errors it didnt appear there was any financial detriment to 
Mr H and its compensation offer was fair.
Mr H disagreed. He raised further points about why the disengagement had been instigated 
given hed indemnified it for the execution only investment and said hed had no dealings 
with Adviser B. He said he thought fair compensation would be for Succession to refund a 
full years adviser charges and platform costs. Our investigator asked Succession about this. 
It said it didnt think this was justified and it pointed out that the platform charges were 
payable to IFDL not to it. 
As Mr H doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint, but I wont be asking Succession to do any 
more than it has already offered to do. Ill explain why.
Our service doesnt regulate financial firms. So, I cant tell Succession to change its 
administration procedures. But I can consider whether procedures have had unfair 
outcomes, and if they have award compensation for that. In this case Succession accepts in 
made errors and a full explanation of why it proceeded to disengage with Mr H and Mrs H 
isnt available. Thats unfortunate, but I dont think this has affected the outcome here. 
Mr H has also complained that Succession was slow to investigate and respond to his 
complaint, missing the eight-week timeframe provided for. Complaint handling isnt 
something our service can usually consider because it isnt a regulated activity. But Mr H 
was advised he could refer his complaint to our service after eight weeks if it hadnt been 
resolved and it did actually provide a final response the day after the eight-week timeframe. 
To make my decision easier to follow Ill explain what a platform is and why I think 
Succession considered stopping providing services to Mr H and Mrs H. 
A platform is an electronic trading and administrative system usually offering various tax 
wrappers like ISAs and in Mr Hs case, a SIPP. It seems Mr H thought he was invested 
directly in Successions own platform but in fact this was operated by a separate third party 
and white labelled to look like a bespoke system. Thats very common in the financial 
service industry and is like using a software package, rather than writing your own. 
That meant if Succession withdrew its services to a client with assets on the platform this 
didnt actually impact those underlying assets as they would remain on the platform until the 
client instructed otherwise. And it shouldnt have impacted Mr Hs ability to get valuations 
and so on from the platform. Had the disengagement process been completed, he probably 
would have needed to log on via a different route. But the information would have been the 
same as before, just without Successions branding. This was set out in the disengagement 
letter of 13 March 2023, which obviously, Mr H didnt receive. And he wasnt aware he was 
being disengaged until he called Succession on 28 March 2023. 
That suggests hed either had no difficulty checking valuations or hadnt sought to do so after 
13 March 2023, the earliest point when access arrangements might have changed. I think if 
hed tried to access the platform and had problems, he would have contacted Succession to 
query this. So, I dont think what happened impacted his ability to manage his arrangements 
and make speedy decisions as he has said. So, it doesnt appear there was any actual 
impact on Mr Hs underlying position between 13 March and 28 March 2023 when he was 
told about the disengagement. 
Mr H mentions the additional risk caused by Succession not being in place to advise him of 
any sharp fall in the value of his investments  the 10% drop rule. However, I dont think this 
is relevant for several reasons. As noted by our investigator, there wasnt a 10% drop in the 
period. And the rule was actually abolished by the Government early in 2023. Before then in 
the event of a 10% drop, the notification would have been issue by the platform. The 
platform has confirmed that it removed the 10% drop notification from its system in March 
2023. And Succession was still acting then, having served 30 days notice to disengage on 
13 March 2023. This notice period was provided for in its client agreement. So, a 10% fall didnt happen. Had it, I think Mr H would have received the notification if still required by the 
regulations, albeit from the platform. So, I dont think this caused him detriment.  
And when Mr H contacted it to withdraw funds from his SIPP on 28 March 2023, Succession 
did place the instruction with the platform and arranged for same day payment on 30 March 
2023. This did give him sufficient time for him to make his ISA investment. So, whilst the 
disengagement problem did cause distress and inconvenience, Mr H was only aware of any 
issue for a few days rather than for a long period. And it doesnt appear to have had a 
material impact on his finances or plans. 
Why was the disengagement process commenced 
Mr H has referred to the FCAs Principles and the need to treat customers fairly in his 
complaint. But by considering whether it should continue to act for him Succession does 
appear to have been appraising whether it was treating him fairly or not. The catalyst to 
consider this was Mr Hs execution instructions, but not through any issue relating to the 
indemnification of this, as he seems to think.
Instead, Successions compliance department was questioning whether Mr H, and by 
association, his wife, actually needed to pay for its advisory services. Given his knowledge 
and experience of investments and that he was self- selecting relatively large investments it 
wouldnt normally recommend. Because charging for services clients dont use or need is 
unlikely to be regarded as treating customers fairly. It was concluded that he didnt require 
the service although there is some confusion over how this came about. Succession has 
provided email chains between its compliance team and Adviser B. 
These indicate that Adviser B was to contact Mr H to see if he wanted to continue with the 
services or not. A follow up email from Adviser B suggests there had been contact with Mr H, 
and that the disengagement process should be started. And it was Adviser B who signed 13 
March 2023 letter. But Mr H says he didnt speak with Adviser B, who has since left 
Succession. And it hasnt been able to locate any notes or call recordings in respect of this. 
Although I note concerns were being raised about another client of Adviser As who also 
made execution only instructions, so perhaps there was a mix up here. 
However, the wording of 13 March 2023 letter is very much that Succession had decided to 
disengage rather than Mr H wanting to, and the tone is rather curt. I understand Mr Hs 
frustration about the lack of clarity here. It wasnt logical for Succession to stop acting for Mr 
H and Mrs H and lose their fees if theyd confirmed they still wished to be clients following a 
conversation about whether the services were needed or not. Because if they valued the 
advice or the sounding board that Succession offered, and they were happy to pay for this, 
there wasnt a treating customers fairly issue. So, something went wrong, and in the end, 
Succession did want to continue to act.   
I do think some of Successions communications, whether delivered or not, could have been 
clearer than they were. This would have reduced the confusion. I note the letter of 13 March 
2023 said a follow up call would be made a few days later. Theres no evidence that it was. If 
it had been the problem could have been resolved sooner with less inconvenience to Mr H, 
but otherwise I dont think the outcome would have been any different. Succession could 
also have clarified why it felt Mrs H should also be disengaged with, and that the 
compensation offer included the fees for her as well as Mr H. However, the decision to 
commence disengagement does appear to have been based on an error and these other 
issues flowed from that. 
It's unfortunate that these errors were made but I think the impact was limited to distress and 
inconvenience over a short period of time. Succession has already apologised and offered a refund of its fees totalling £1,374.94. I think that is fair compensation and it is more than I 
would award in similar circumstances. So, whilst I am upholding this complaint, I wont be 
telling Succession to do any more than it has already offered to do. As Mrs H hasnt made a 
complaint, I have no power to tell Succession to refund her fees, but I understand that this 
offer is still available.
Putting things right
I think Mr H was caused distress and inconvenience because of Successions errors.
But I think the compensation it has already offered is fair in all circumstances of the 
complaint and Succession should now pay this if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against Succession Wealth Management Ltd.
I direct Succession Wealth Management Ltd to refund the adviser fees deducted between 
March and May 2023, as it has previously offered. 
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman