DRN-2910547
The complaint
Ms A and Mr A complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) were slow in approving their 
application for a BTL mortgage and therefore they had to pay an early repayment charge.
What happened
Ms A and Mr A had two buy to let (BTL) mortgages with Santander. The mortgage on 
property A, was for £284,499 when it was arranged in August 2019. It had a fixed rate of 
1.59% until September 2021, and the early repayment charge (ERC) was 3% of the amount 
repaid if before then.  
On 1 October 2020, Ms A and Mr A applied for a new BTL mortgage of £263,000 on another 
property (B), costing £375,000, and this included the porting of the mortgage on property A. 
On 4 November 2020, Ms A and Mr A exchanged contracts to buy property B, for completion 
on 4 December 2020. After that date,  on 7 December 2020, Santander made a mortgage 
offer on property B for £233,228 at a fixed interest rate of 1.59% until September 2021  
including the porting of the lending from property A. On 4 December 2020, Ms A and Mr A 
bought property B with cash  rather than using the mortgage finance. Property A was sold 
on 3 March 2021  the balance then was £230,444 and an ERC of £6,913.33 was paid.
Ms A and Mr A complained. They said Santander had taken too long to approve their 
mortgage application on property B. They said there were two main delays. First, the 
application didnt get put into the underwriting queue until 15 October 2020, and then  it 
was placed in a special approvals team queue in error. And they said - the valuation was 
delayed for three weeks as Santander insisted on a physical valuation and not an online 
valuation. They said Santander had guaranteed that the mortgage would be in place for 
completion. They said they exchanged contracts because they were confident the mortgage 
would be approved as it was only 60% Loan To Value (LTV). They went ahead and bought 
property B for cash - as the seller was old and frail. So  as a result, they said they couldnt 
port the borrowing on property A and had to pay an ERC when it was later sold in March 
2021. They wanted a refund of the ERC, Santanders valuation fee and the legal costs theyd 
paid.
Santander said theyd made some processing errors when dealing with Ms A and Mr As 
application for a mortgage on property B. This was because Ms A and Mr As application 
was put to a specialist team who dealt with cases where there were more than two BTL 
mortgages  but here, there were only two (after the sale of property A) - but they thought 
that Ms A and Mr A had three BTLs. So  that caused a delay. Theyd instructed the 
valuation after the mortgage offer had been produced  that was their process, and therefore 
the valuation fee wouldnt be refunded. But they apologised for the delays and paid 
compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience. 
Ms A and Mr A brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said Santander should 
increase their compensation to £400. They made mistakes in dealing with the application 
which caused delays. If the application had gone through by 4 December 2020  Ms A and 
Mr A wouldnt have had to pay an ERC. But it wasnt unusual for mortgage approvals to take 
as long as it did. But it wasnt a good idea for Ms A and Mr A to have exchanged contracts 
before they had a mortgage offer. Santander didnt give any guarantees that the mortgage 
would be approved by 4 December 2020. And so  he couldnt agree to the refund of ERC, 
valuation fee or legal fees.
Santander agreed to increase their compensation to £400, but Ms A and Mr A didnt agree 
and asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A and Mr A wanted to port the mortgage on property A to a new property they were 
buying, property B. And, they say  that because of the delays in approving the mortgage on 
property B, they couldnt do that. And so, when property A was sold in March 2021, they had 
to pay an ERC.
The mortgage offer dated August 2019 on property A said an ERC was payable and was 
3% of the amount repaid on or before 2 November 2021. Property A was sold in March 
2021. And so  its clear that an ERC was payable in line with the mortgages terms and 
conditions.
The mortgage offer also says You have the right to transfer this loan to another property. 
You must meet conditions set out in the mortgage conditions. 
Ive looked at Santanders Mortgage terms and conditions. They say Transferring your loan 
to a new mortgageThis condition applies if you notify us that you wish:
(a) to pay off the money you owe us on completing a sale of the property; 
(b)  at the same time, to complete a mortgage with us under which we will lend you 
money on the security of another property that you wish to buy.
What this means is that the new mortgage on property B had to be arranged and drawn 
down on completion of its purchase  on 4 December 2020. But this didnt happen because 
Ms A and Mr A bought property B for cash. So - if they later wanted to have a mortgage on 
property B, then that would then be classed as a new mortgage as there was no pre-existing 
mortgage on the property  not a porting arrangement  and at the terms, conditions and 
rates that were then available. 
Ms A and Mr A wanted to arrange the mortgage on property B for the completion of its 
purchase on 4 December 2020  so they could then port the mortgage from property A at 
the same time. They intended to pay off the mortgage on property A from savings.
Santander accepted there were delays in processing Ms A and Mr As application. They 
unnecessarily put it into their specialist team  which caused a delay. Santander admitted 
this was an error. From looking at the notes on the application, it looks like this caused a 
delay of a few days - its not possible to be more precise than that. Ms A and Mr A have also 
said that delays were caused because Santander wanted a full inspection rather than an 
online desktop valuation. Ive looked at this point. The valuation was dated 1 December 
2020  just before the mortgage offer was made. This was in line with Santanders 
processes  to do the valuation at the time of the mortgage offer. But Ive seen nothing in 
Santanders records that suggests they were waiting on the valuation, or that that was a 
cause of delay. Ms A and Mr A have argued that their application wasnt put into the underwriting queue until 
15 October 2020. Ive looked at Santanders notes  this wasnt the case. I can see that they 
started to look at it on 2 October 2020  for example by asking questions about Ms A and Mr 
A's income and the affordability of the mortgage. But - its reasonable to say that 
Santanders service couldve been quicker. I can see from Santanders notes that there was 
little progress on the application between 15 October 2020 and 10 November 2020.  
But on the other hand, Ms A and Mr A exchanged contracts on property B on 4 November 
2020, which committed them to completion on 4 December 2020  without having a 
mortgage offer in place. This clearly had significant risks  as they were committed to buying 
property B on 4 December 2020. It would be normal practice for their broker and/or solicitor 
to advise them about the risks of doing that. On 11 November 2020 - after the event - they 
told Santander that contracts had been exchanged. They told us they did that because they 
were confident of getting the mortgage and because the seller of property B was old and 
vulnerable  and shed also exchanged contracts to buy her new property. That may have 
been so  but Ms A and Mr A still took the decision to exchange contracts themselves, and 
with the risk of doing that without having a mortgage offer in place. 
Santander have said that market conditions meant that they had a lot of mortgage 
applications to process  and its well-known that the market was very busy at that time 
following the stamp duty holiday in place. Ive seen references in Santanders notes about 
how busy they were. And in that context  I consider that to take two months to agree and 
process a mortgage application is reasonable.
Ms  A and Mr A have said to us that Santander said they could complete by 4 December 
2020 as in an email to the broker on 3 December 2020 they said we can still allow the 
case to complete tomorrow via our emergency/urgent completion route so there is no need 
for your customer to pay the ERC if we can still meet the completion tomorrow. But I dont 
consider this was guaranteeing there would be a mortgage in place by then  for me, this 
was Santander - hoping they could meet the deadline at the last minute. And in the event, 
they couldnt. Apart from that late reference, I couldnt see that at any stage Santander 
guaranteed they could meet a completion date of 4 December 2020.
And so, I must balance these factors when coming to a decision. The ERC was charged in 
line with the terms and conditions and so it shouldnt be refunded. Santander were slow to 
process the mortgage application, and there were delays caused by the wrong decision to 
have the mortgage application looked at by a specialist team. But, it was Ms A and Mr As 
decision to exchange contracts on property B without a mortgage offer, so they should also 
bear some responsibility.  Santander have agreed to pay compensation of £400 for the 
delays in processing the application. But  Im of the view that an award of £400 is right for 
what happened and is in line with what our service would expect to see.
Ms A and Mr A have asked for the valuation fee and legal fees to be refunded. But  
Santander instructed the valuation towards the end of November 2020 as part of their 
processes, and at that time. Ms A and Mr A hadnt stopped the mortgage application. So  I 
cant say the valuation shouldnt have taken place. And therefore, I think its reasonable for 
the fee to be paid. I think the legal fees paid by Ms A and Mr A would have been incurred 
anyway in the purchase of property B  so it wouldnt be fair to ask Santander to refund 
them.
 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must:Pay compensation of £400 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman