DRN-1413344
The complaint
Mr B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it increased his credit limit 
from £2,000 in 2015 to £4,000 in 2016. 
What happened
In October 2015 Vanquis increased the credit limit on Mr Bs credit card from £2,000 to 
£3,000. In May 2016 Vanquis increased the credit limit to £3,500 and in December 2016 it 
went up to £4,000. 
Mr B has told us that during this period he was experiencing financial difficulties and that 
Vanquis should have known that the credit limit increases were unaffordable based on his 
credit file and how his account had been handled. Mr B complained and Vanquis responded 
on 3 September 2019. Vanquis didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly and said it had 
considered Mr Bs credit file along with information it had available to decide whether the 
credit limit increases were affordable. Vanquis also said Mr B hadnt contacted it to say he 
didnt want the credit limit increases to go ahead or to advise he was experiencing financial 
difficulties. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. She thought 
Vanquis had dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. 
Mr B asked to appeal and explained that the issue has impacted his mental health. As Mr B 
asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a business lends or agrees to increase a credit limit on a credit card I would expect it 
to complete proportionate checks to ensure that the borrowing is sustainable for the 
customer. In this case, Ive looked at each of the credit limit increases, the information 
Vanquis had available and the relevant regulations. 
Mr B has told us that the credit limit increases were irresponsible and complains that it 
should have been clear to Vanquis that they werent affordable. Vanquis has explained that 
before it offered to increase Mr Bs credit limit it checked his credit file and took his previous 
payment record into account. Vanquis says it applied its lending criteria to Mr Bs 
circumstances and decided to proceed with the increases. Vanquis also says that each time 
it increased the credit limit it gave Mr B 30 days notice during which he could have asked for 
his existing credit limit to remain in place. 
Ive looked at the information Vanquis had available each time it decided to increase the 
credit limit. I can see that, on each occasion, it did check Mr Bs credit file. The results show 
that Mr B doesnt appear to have had extensive unsecured borrowing with other lenders. The 
credit file information showed Mr B owed other lenders £766 in October 2015, £504 in May 
2016 and £369 in December 2016. The credit file information indicates that Mr Bs level of 
debt held with other businesses appears to have been reducing over time. 
Vanquis also looked at whether Mr B had any adverse credit. Vanquis has explained it does 
lend to consumers with some adverse information. The credit searches didnt pick up any 
County Court Judgements and where defaults were found, they all appear to have been 
registered several months before the decisions to increase Mr Bs credit limit. Im satisfied 
that Vanquis did check Mr Bs credit record each time it chose to increase the credit limit and 
that the information it found was in line with its lending criteria. 
Vanquis says that Mr B has consistently made payments in excess of the minimum required. 
Each time it increased the credit limit, Vanquis looked at Mr Bs payments in the preceding 
months and found they were made on time. Ive looked at Mr Bs payment profile and while I 
have found some late payments, they were few in number and didnt occur in the months 
before the credit limit went up. 
Mr B has told us he was experiencing mental health issues and financial difficulties during 
this period. Hes sent us bank statements to give a picture of his everyday spending. I do 
understand Mr B was going through a difficult time, but I can only make a decision based on 
what Vanquis knew about him when it offered to increase the credit limit. Ive looked at 
Vanquis contact notes and cant find any evidence to show Mr B let Vanquis know about the 
problems he was going through. From Vanquis view, I think it reasonably appeared that 
Mr B was managing his account, often paying more than the minimum. I also think Vanquis 
makes a reasonable point when it says Mr B had the opportunity to opt out of the credit limit 
increases because it gave him 30 days notice of its decision before it came into effect. If 
Mr B thought the increases were unaffordable, he did have the option to decline them. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied that Vanquis did complete proportionate checks 
each time before deciding to increase the credit limit on his credit card. I havent been 
persuaded that Vanquis lent irresponsibly or that its decision to increase Mr Bs credit limit 
was unreasonable. As I think Vanquis has dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly, Im not telling it 
to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman