DRN-3620072
The complaint
Mr C has complained that ReAssure Limited misinformed him about the options available 
under his section 32 buy out plan, causing him to delay taking his pension payments.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr Cs section 32 plan commenced in 1988 when benefits were transferred from an 
occupational pension scheme. The original provider of the section 32 plan was Legal & 
General (L&G). In 2020 following a transfer of business of certain policies, ReAssure took 
over responsibility for Mr Cs plan, and it is for this reason that this complaint is made against 
ReAssure.
In 2018 as Mr C approached his normal retirement date under the policy, he contacted L&G 
to enquire about his options. He says that he was told he would be able to take the full 
pension fund as a lump sum, and it was explained how much tax would be deducted from 
the lump sum. Because he felt that he didnt need a lump sum at that time, Mr C says that he 
elected to leave his benefits for a later date.
In 2021, Mr C contacted ReAssure to confirm what benefits were available to him. He says 
that it was during the contact he had with ReAssure at this time that he became aware that 
he would not be able to take his benefits as a lump sum, and that instead he would need to 
take them in the form of regular annuity payments. This was because the policy was 
required to provide Mr C with a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). Because the cost of 
providing the GMP was significantly higher than the current fund value of the policy, 
ReAssure stated to Mr C that it would have to pay him the policy benefits as a regular 
annuity, rather than in the form of a lump sum.
Mr C complained to ReAssure that he had been misinformed about the possibility that he 
would be able to take the pension fund as a lump sum. He said that had he been told in 
2018 that he would be required to take an annuity, he would have chosen to commence his 
pension payments at that time. Mr Cs view was that misinformation hed been given in 2018 
had resulted in him missing out on receiving his annuity from that date, and he asked 
ReAssure to pay him backdated pension payments from 2018.
ReAssure accepted that it had given conflicting information to Mr C, and it offered him £150 
to reflect the inconvenience it had caused him. However ReAssure did not agree to backdate 
pension payments to 2018.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint, concluding that ReAssure should not be 
required to make annuity payments to Mr C back to 2018. She also felt that the £150 
compensation offered was fair.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators findings. He stated that if hed been told in 2018 that 
the only way he could have taken his benefits was as a regular pension, he would have 
elected to take the payments at that time, even if he had not needed the income. Mr C 
reiterated his request that ReAssure make annuity payments to him back to 2018. As the 
GMP was just over £4,000 a year in 2018, in his view Mr C has been deprived of around 
£12,000 due to misinformation provided by ReAssure. Mr C commented that his policy 
benefits represented a pension pot that he has paid into, and he does not have to prove his 
entitlement to those benefits.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At outset I think it would be helpful to briefly explain what benefits are available to Mr C 
under his policy. When his accrued pension rights were transferred into the section 32 plan, 
they included an entitlement to a GMP that related to the original occupational scheme being 
contracted out of the State Earnings Related Pensions Scheme (SERPS). The section 32 
plan was required to provide a GMP at Mr Cs state pension age regardless of the size of the 
fund that had been built up.
In my view, the requirement for ReAssure to pay Mr C a guaranteed income for life, in the 
form of the GMP, represents a valuable benefit for him. The fund value of the plan has not 
grown sufficiently to cover the GMP, taking into account current annuity rates (the rates used 
to convert the fund into a regular pension amount). But ReAssure are still required to pay the 
GMP to Mr C. The quotation sent to Mr C in 2021 confirmed that to cover the GMP at that 
time of just over £4,000 a year required a fund value of around £92,000. The actual fund 
value was around £32,500. ReAssure confirmed that it was required to make up the 
difference between these two fund values so that the GMP could be paid to Mr C.
However, the requirement to pay the GMP does mean that Mr C is not able to take his 
pension fund as a lump sum. He has complained because he says that he was misinformed 
in 2018 that he could take his fund as a lump sum. Had he not been told this, Mr C says he 
would have chosen to start taking his GMP annuity payments from 2018. That would have 
resulted in him receiving (by now) almost four years of payments. Mr C has requested that 
ReAssure pay him backdated payments to 2018.
In 2018, L&G sent Mr C information showing the options he could take as he approached his 
birthday. Mr C says that one of these options showed he could take benefits as a lump sum, 
rather than having to take them as regular pension payments. ReAssure has provided me 
with a two page letter dated 16 July 2018 that was sent to Mr C. This letter refers to a pack 
being sent to Mr C at this time. I have asked ReAssure to provide a copy of this pack, but it 
has stated that it does not have these records following the transfer of the policy from L&G.
L&Gs July 2018 letter does confirm the value of the pension pot as being just over 
£31,000. It doesnt state that the value of the policy is available to Mr C as a lump sum. 
However, it is Mr Cs recollection that the information he was sent at this time did confirm he 
could take his benefits as a lump sum. 
ReAssure does have records of contact it had with Mr C in July 2021. Its recorded that Mr C 
called to cash in full policy. The ReAssure representative responded that an options pack 
would have to be issued first. Whether or not the ReAssure representative misled Mr C 
about his benefits options during this phone call, it is clear that Mr Cs understanding was he 
could take all his benefits as a lump sum. Two weeks later, details of a phone call were 
noted in which Mr C said that both L&G and ReAssure had told him he could take a cash lump sum. The representative explained this was not possible because the GMP was 
underfunded.
In the absence of ReAssure being able to provide me with copies of the information pack 
sent to Mr C in 2018, it is difficult for me to determine whether Mr C was misled about his 
ability to take his benefits as a lump sum at this time. ReAssures response in August 2021 
to Mr Cs complaint accepted conflicting information had been given, but my understanding 
is that ReAssure was referring to the contact it had had with Mr C in 2021, rather than in 
2018.
Either way, even if I were to conclude that Mr C had received misleading information in 
2018, I would then need to consider whether that had made a difference to his actions. In my 
view the key question is, if Mr C was told in 2018 that he was not able to take his fund as a 
lump sum, is it more likely than not that he would have chosen to start his pension payments 
from the policy at that time?
Mr C has said that when he was told in 2018 that he could take his pension fund as a lump 
sum, he decided not to do so because he didnt need it. Mr C explained further to our 
investigator that this was because he was working at the time. In light of this, the investigator 
asked why Mr C would have chosen to start his pension payments if told in 2018 that he 
couldnt take the full fund as a lump sum. Mr C responded that this was because these were 
his pension benefits, and if he knew he could only take them in the form of a regular 
pension, thats what he would have done.
I have thought carefully about Mr Cs comments in this regard. Clearly I cannot know for 
certain what he would have chosen to do in 2018 if he had had a clear understanding that 
his only option for taking benefits was to start his pension payments. I therefore need to 
assess on the balance of probabilities what I think it is likely Mr C would have chosen to do 
in these circumstances.
In my view Mr Cs testimony suggests that in 2018, he did not have a financial need to take 
any proceeds from his policy in any form. Thats because he was working, and as he has 
explained, he didnt need additional financial resources at this time. On balance, having 
decided that he didnt need money from the policy in 2018 when he believed the fund could 
be taken entirely as a lump sum, it seems unlikely to me that Mr C would have chosen to 
start taking a regular pension if hed understood that the benefits were only available in this 
form.
My understanding is that after 2018, Mr C didnt contact ReAssure again to enquire about 
taking his policy benefits until 2021. This suggests to me that Mr C did not have a need for 
the policy proceeds until 2021, indicating again that clear and accurate information given in 
2018 about the options available under the policy would not have led him to start his pension 
payments at that time.
In conclusion, my view is that even if Mr C was given inaccurate information in 2018 about 
his policy options, it is unlikely that this made a difference to his actions at the time. In my 
view, due to an absence of a need for the policy benefits in 2018, Mr C is unlikely to have 
chosen to start his pension payments in 2018 if he had understood this was the only option 
available to him.
ReAssure sent Mr C a cheque for £150 to reflect inconvenience it considered it had caused 
through giving conflicting information to him. In light of my findings above, I do not intend to 
require ReAssure to make any further compensation payments to Mr C. Whilst I appreciate 
that Mr C will be disappointed, that means that I do not intend to require ReAssure to 
backdate the pension payments to 2018.I understand Mr C has not as yet started taking his pension payments from his policy. If he 
wishes to do so now, he should contact ReAssure to confirm how this can be done, and how 
much the payments will be.
Responses to my provisional decision
ReAssure stated that it had no further submissions that it wished to make.
Mr C thanked me for my time spent looking at the case, but he also said that he felt the main 
point of his complaint had been missed. He highlighted that ReAssure had accepted it had 
provided him with misleading information. Mr C commented that ReAssure is required to pay 
him an annuity for life, but had avoided doing that for four years, and this is money that he 
cannot claim back.
Further to this, Mr C said that it was not reasonable to conclude that if hed known in 2018 
that the policy would only pay him an annual pension, he would not have chosen to take it at 
that point. He said that he definitely would have taken it, and his view is that anyone else in 
his situation would have done the same. Mr C highlighted that he is not seeking 
compensation, but he does want to receive his pension backdated to 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge what Mr C has said about ReAssure accepting that it misinformed him about 
his pension options. That being the case, I need to decide what on balance I consider Mr C 
would likely have done if hed been told in 2018 that he was only going to be able to take his 
benefits as an annual pension.
I accept that in this scenario, Mr C might have chosen to commence his annual pension. And 
as I said in my provisional decision, I cant know for certain what he would have done with 
clear and accurate information being given in 2018. But I must assess this issue based on 
the weight of evidence provided.
In this case, Mr C chose to defer benefits in 2018 when his understanding was that a lump 
sum was available from the policy. Importantly in my view, Mr C has said that this was 
because he was still working at the time, and he didnt have a financial need for his policy 
proceeds. That being the case, I remain of the opinion that if told in 2018 that his only option 
under the policy was to take an annual pension, it is more likely than not that he would have 
deferred taking the pension. That is because Mr C has confirmed that he did not need funds 
from his policy in 2018. And as I noted above, after that it seems that it was only in 2021 that 
Mr C asked ReAssure again about taking benefits from the policy.
Consequently, my view is that accurate information being given to Mr C in 2018 about his 
pension options would not have led him to start taking his annual pension in 2018. Although I 
know Mr C will be disappointed with these findings, my conclusion is that it would not be 
reasonable to require ReAssure to backdate annuity payments to 2018.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman