DRN-3399890
The complaint
Mr B complains Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) switched his pension savings out of their 
managed fund into cash against his wishes in 2020. Mr B also has concerns about the date 
Phoenix used to determine the unit price of that switch. He wants them to reinstate his policy 
back into the managed fund at the value it would have been had the fund switch not taken 
place.
What happened
Mr B holds two Personal Pension (PP) plans administered by Phoenix. In 2019, Phoenix 
wrote to Mr B six months, and three months, prior to him reaching his 65th birthday. They 
explained that as hed shortly be reaching his nominated retirement age on the plans, they 
would move the underlying investments within the policies to cash 30 days after his birthday. 
Their letter asked him to contact them if he wished Phoenix to take a different course of 
action.
Around a week after his 65th birthday, Mr B met with an IFA to take advice around his 
retirement options. The IFA wrote to Phoenix who, several weeks later, provided policy 
details of Mr Bs plans with them.
Phoenix then, 30 days after Mr Bs 65th birthday, wrote to him explaining theyd moved his 
monies out of their managed fund and in to cash. At the same time, Phoenix altered the 
retirement age on the plan to 75. Amending the retirement age on the plans to 75 allowed 
them to continue administering the policies.
Mr Bs IFA submitted a complaint to Phoenix four months later. He was concerned that 
Phoenix had altered the fund without informing him and asked them to switch the fund back 
to their managed fund.
Phoenix issued its final response letter on 10 July 2020. They stated theyd previously made 
Mr B aware his monies would be moved to the cash fund if they were not advised otherwise 
and so they rejected the complaint. They acknowledged, however, that in their 
correspondence with the IFA shortly after Mr Bs birthday, they didnt advise them of their 
intentions to move the fund to cash.
Three months later Mr Bs IFA asked for further information on the fund switches. He chased 
Phoenix for a response several times without success. Mr Bs IFA then complained. He 
explained he was unhappy with how Phoenix had determined the date at which to price Mr 
Bs pension funds that were being moved into the money fund. He also expressed concerns 
about the performance of the underlying funds.
Phoenix issued its final response on this matter on 29 March 2021. In their reply they 
explained they had identified a number of errors in the unit information they had provided 
which had taken some time to correct. They also explained the rationale for the exact date of 
the fund switch. In addition, they also apologised for the time taken to respond to Mr B and 
his IFA and offered them £150 each to apologise for the time it took them to respond.
Dissatisfied, Mr B brought his complaint to this service on 1 July 2021.
Phoenix told this service they believed Mr Bs complaint was about two separate issues. 
They said as the first complaint had been brought to us in excess of six months from their 
original complaint resolution letter (dated 10 July 2020), they did not give their permission for 
this service to consider it as they considered it had been brought too late under the dispute 
resolution (DISP) rules that we follow. They did however concede the second complaint 
(which they addressed in their final response letter dated 29 March 2021) had been made in 
time.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She concluded the complaints 
presented by Mr Bs IFA were two separate issues. She determined the DISP rules 
prevented her from hearing the first complaint issue but did allow her to consider the second 
issue raised. She reviewed Mr Bs concerns and found that Phoenix had conceded their 
communication couldve been clearer and more prompt.
Taking consideration of the trouble and upset caused to Mr B, our investigator was satisfied 
with Phoenixs response.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators findings. He told our investigator, in summary, the 
following:
He thought the two complaints were about the same issue and felt as such, this service 
should be able to consider them together.
He felt that as Phoenixs final resolution letter covering the second complaint made 
reference to the original complaint, that proved they were for the same concern.
Our investigator was not persuaded to change her view as Mr B and his IFA had not 
presented any new arguments shed not already considered.
Mr B and his IFA asked the investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that 
outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I dont believe is in any doubt here is whether Mr B and his IFA received the service 
they would have expected from Phoenix when they queried how the unit prices had been 
calculated on the money fund. Phoenix have conceded there were delays responding to 
these queries and offered £150 to each of them to say sorry. What I think is at the heart of 
this case is, whether our investigator was right to view Mr Bs second complaint as separate 
to the original earlier concern and in doing so, time baring the first one. Whilst I think the 
issues raised on the second complaint are closely linked to the original concerns, I believe 
they are two separate points and as such, have their own respective time limits. I appreciate 
Mr B and his IFA will likely be disappointed with that view but, Ill explain why below.
First complaint  DISP rules:The starting point in determining what complaints this service can consider, are the 
Regulators DISP rules. Those rules set out the time limits for when a complaint must be 
brought to this service. Rule 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication
unless:
in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or 
DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances."
The rules cite an example of exceptional circumstances as the complainant being 
incapacitated.
Where consumers refer their complaints to this service outside of the Regulators rules, 
businesses are asked if they will allow this service to consider the individuals complaint. In 
this instance, Phoenix stated that as the first complaint was presented outside the 6-month 
window, they didnt consent for it to be heard. 
The first complaint was made on 6 July 2020 and Phoenix Life issued its Final Response 
Letter on 10 July 2020. Mr Bs IFA was unhappy because Phoenix had moved his savings 
out of their managed fund and in to cash. He felt that Mr B had been financially 
disadvantaged by their actions. He explained that when Phoenix wrote to him detailing Mr 
Bs policies, they should have set out they were intending to move his monies in to cash. 
Phoenix rejected the complaint, citing the two earlier letters theyd sent Mr B prior to his 65th 
birthday setting out their proposed changes. Within their resolution letter, they did provide 
the right to refer his complaint to this service, saying:
If you are unhappy with my decision, you have the right to refer your complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS), free of charge - but you must do so within six months 
of the date of this letter. If you do not refer your complaint in time, the Ombudsman will not 
have our permission to consider your complaint and so will only be able to do so in very 
limited circumstances. For example, if the Ombudsman believes that the delay was as a 
result of exceptional circumstances.
As well as providing referral rights to this service, their letter met the Regulators 
requirements for a Final Response Letter in all other respects. This meant the deadline for 
referring that complaint to this service ended 10 January 2021. Mr B raised his complaint 
with us on 1 July 2021. Im satisfied exceptional circumstances dont explain the late referral. 
It therefore follows that I cant consider this complaint.
Second complaint
On 8 October 2020, Mr Bs IFA wrote back to Phoenix. In his letter, he stated that he was 
disappointed they were not able to uphold his complaint. He sought clarification on any 
bid/offer spread that may have been applied to the units and queried the unit prices. He also 
explained he was surprised by how much the fund had fallen between 25 February to 3 
March. The letter was stamped by Phoenix with expression of dissatisfaction.
I think it was clear from the IFAs letter of 8 October 2021 that he and Mr B were unhappy 
with the response provided by Phoenix. At that point, I can see no reason why they didnt raise their concerns with this service. Instead, Mr Bs IFA chose to write to Phoenix seeking 
clarification on a number of points linked to the unit prices on the plan and expressing 
concerns around performance. Those points are different to the original concerns he raised 
which was, why did Phoenix move his funds out of cash when they knew Mr B was receiving 
financial advice about his retirement options.
Mr B has said in his complaint to this service that he feels Phoenix deliberately delayed 
responding to his follow-up queries and complaint so it would prevent him presenting his 
concerns to this service. However, I cant agree with that view given Phoenix responded to 
his original complaint in less than a week and in their letter to him, explained his ombudsman 
referral rights to him. At that point, there was nothing to prevent Mr B forwarding his 
concerns to this service. The letter issued by Phoenix also highlighted a number of different 
ways that Mr B could get in touch with us.
Having carefully considered the points made on both the original and secondary complaints, 
I conclude that whilst they are linked, importantly, they cover different issues. 
It is clear from the letter issued by Phoenix on 29 March 2021 dealing with the secondary 
complaint, they fully accept the service they provided fell short of what they typically aim to 
deliver. They provided a response on how the unit prices had been calculated along with 
some insight into what caused the delay. Phoenix explained investments within Mr Bs fund 
were only priced on a weekly basis. They switch investments on the first Tuesday after 
receiving a completed switch instruction. As Mr B didnt inform Phoenix not to switch into 
cash when he reached age 65, they took that as permission to move his fund. The two 
letters they issued to him prior to his 65th birthday highlighted theyd move his funds to cash, 
30 days after his selected retirement date. That meant Phoenix received Mr Bs implied 
instruction on 3 March 2020. The first Tuesday after that date is 10 March 2020. Therefore, 
the date Phoenix used for the switch appears to tie into their terms and conditions. It follows 
that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Having carefully considered the redress that Phoenix have offered to Mr B of £150, I believe 
that represents a fair and reasonable amount for the trouble and upset theyve caused him in 
failing to provide a timely response to their queries about how the unit prices were reached.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman