DRN-3348635
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund transactions he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr M told us how he was the victim of a scam. He was led to believe by fraudsters 
that they were helping him get into trading. But they proceeded to make threats to 
take his money and to harm him and his son if he didnt follow their instructions. This 
included handing over his banking information, like his card and PIN, and online 
banking information, as well as going into branch to verify that transactions were 
genuine.
From what Mr Ms said, his account was in essence controlled by the fraudsters. And 
from 15 February 2019, they made several transactions including:
oFaster payments received and made to new beneficiaries.
oLoans paid into Mr Ms account, one of which was a loan from Lloyds taken 
out in Mr Ms name.
oCash withdrawals in branch and at ATMs.
oDebit card payments to various merchants.
In April 2019, when contacted about an incoming payment, Lloyds records show 
Mr M said he was a fraud beneficiary and a victim of a crime. As a result blocks were 
placed on the account before it was later closed.
In May 2019, Mr Ms son was kidnapped by the fraudsters for several hours. 
Following this, the matter was reported to the police to investigate.
After raising a fraud claim with Lloyds, Mr M raised a complaint. Lloyds replied:
oFrom their fraud review, they refunded £1,600 alongside daily account fees.
oThe outstanding overdraft of £1,166.71 was also cleared.
oThey said they needed the police report to consider refunding the loan.
In February 2021, Lloyds confirmed that Mr M wouldnt be held liable for the loan, 
and they would unwind it.
In February 2022, I made a provisional decision that didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
In summary:
oI was satisfied that under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), it 
was fair to regard the payments as authorised. 
oI considered whether Lloyds shouldve spotted that something was going on 
and taken action. But I thought that the initial branch interaction at the very 
outset was proportionate to what had happened on Mr Ms account. And that 
their second intervention in branch happened at a reasonable point, when Mr 
Ms account activity had increased and looked unusual.
oAt this point, even if the intervention shouldve been better, I wasnt 
persuaded they couldve prevented Mr M losing out. Because by that point, 
Mr Ms own money had been spent. And the spending after this was a result 
of money paid into the account that didnt belong to Mr M. 
Lloyds didnt have anything further to add. Mr M disagreed. His son, as his 
representative, said:
oMr M handed over his details, but he didnt do so willingly, he did so under 
duress. They dont have all the evidence as the fraudsters used burner 
phones and blocked numbers, but the kidnap should be evidence enough. 
Hes concerned that I didnt refer to police report and that I dont understand 
what happened. 
oHe added that Mr M didnt know English and his son was 17  so they didnt 
understand. And by the time they knew what was happening, it was too late. 
The fraudsters were a large, professional, criminal organisation, who 
threatened them with weapons. 
oUnder the Payment Services Regulations, thats an exceptional circumstance 
that means Mr Ms not liable. 
oI said that Lloyds intervened and did enough, but why was a loan accepted 
and why didnt they block the spending in clubs and in shops. 
oIt also wouldve been clear when they withdrew funds in branch that 
everything wasnt OK  they looked over their shoulders and the fraudsters 
were monitoring them.  
oThe impact on Mr Ms mental health hasnt been considered  so how debt 
collectors were told to stop but then they carried on. 
oMy decision is the opposite of what our investigator concluded. 
Mr M also submitted documentary evidence  a letter from Victim Support regarding 
his son that explains what they went through as a family. We also received an email 
from Mr Ms sons MP detailing his concerns. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about Mr Ms response carefully, Ive not changed my mind about the 
outcome of this complaint. Ill address what I think are the key points in his response:
From Mr Ms response, I realise hes unhappy with my conclusion that these were 
authorised payments. So Ill cover this in more detail. To decide whether Mr M authorised these payments, Ive got to consider the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. Broadly, these explain that it depends on whether the payment transactions 
were authenticated correctly, and whether he consented to them.
Its not disputed here that Mr Ms card and PIN was used to make the card 
transactions and that his banking credentials were used to make the faster 
payments. So Im satisfied the transactions were authenticated.
So Ive gone on to consider whether Mr M gave his consent. The PSRs state how 
consent is given  so its not something thats open to interpretation or subject to 
exceptional circumstances. They say it must be given in the form, and in accordance 
with the procedure agreed between Mr M and HSBC. In other words, consent 
happens when Mr M uses the steps agreed for making a transaction. Its also 
possible for someone else to act on Mr Ms behalf and use these agreed steps.
For at least one of these disputed transactions, Mr M himself used the agreed steps 
 so he withdrew cash in branch and used his card and PIN. So, according to the 
PSRs, Im satisfied he consented to the payment.
For the rest of the disputed transactions, its not clear that Mr M himself used the 
agreed steps. So I have instead considered whether he did something that meant 
someone else could make payments on his behalf. This could have been an explicit 
agreement for each payment or by providing the ability to make payments on his 
behalf.   
Here, Mr M provided someone else with his banking credentials, card and PIN  so 
he gave them the means to make transactions. And I think he understood that theyd 
use the information to make payments. So, even if he didnt know the details of each 
payment, he did know they were making payments from his account. 
Mr M didnt do anything to remove their apparent authority to act on his behalf, such 
as taking steps to remove the means for them to make payments. For example, by 
cancelling his card or changing his banking credentials. Nor did he let Lloyds know 
his secure information had been compromised. Instead, when payments were 
questioned, Mr M said it was him.
I recognise there were reasons for that. And to be clear, Im not making the finding 
that Mr M always wanted the payments to be made. However under the PSRs, 
theres no distinction made for why someone makes a payment or allows payments 
to be made. Its enough that they did it. And here, Im persuaded that most people 
would have understood and indeed Mr M did know that his actions meant someone 
else could authorise payments from his account. So I think Lloyds has acted fairly in 
treating them as authorised payments.
That doesnt mean Ive not considered Mr Ms explanation of the duress he faced, 
alongside his supporting evidence from Victim Support and the Police. Although Im 
still not persuaded theres enough to support that Mr M was always coerced  or 
whether he only later lost control of what was happening. I am mindful that Mr M said 
this started because he wanted to trade stocks and shares. But hes also told our 
service that he thought money would be paid into his account from abroad and 
passed on, with him taking a profit. This would suggest Mr M was aware someone 
would be making payments from his account.
Regardless, I do accept this did escalate  and thats clearly been a traumatising 
experience for Mr M and his son. But I must emphasise that the complaint Im considering is between Mr M and Lloyds. And it wasnt Lloyds that threated Mr M. So 
the relevant question here is whether Lloyds ought to have done more to identify this 
was happening  and whether they failed to act as they should have done.
Mr M said it wouldve been clear that something was wrong when they were in 
branch and CCTV would show that. Ive not sought this as I dont think itll still be 
available. And Im not convinced that seeing Mr M and his sons movements alone 
would be enough to persuade me Lloyds shouldve done more.
So my findings havent changed that Lloyds responded appropriately when it queried 
the first attempted payment in branch.
Mr M also questioned why Lloyds didnt block the debit card spending that followed 
as well as the loans that were paid in. Im satisfied that my provisional findings 
explained why I thought Lloyds did intervene at the next appropriate time  taking 
into account this spending and the loans paid in. But that, even if this intervention 
shouldve been better, I dont think it could have prevented Mr Ms losses  by this 
point, his own money had been spent.
Mr M added that Ive not considered the impact on his mental health and how debt 
collectors were told to stop but still carried on. It looks like Lloyds told the collectors 
to stop for 30 days to give Mr M the chance to provide a police report  so they could 
consider his liability. But it seems that took a while longer, although I can see Lloyds 
did contact the police directly for it. So I dont think I could fairly blame Lloyds for this.
It follows that Ive not changed my mind that Lloyds arent responsible for putting right 
what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman