DRN-3450461
The complaint
Miss J complains that Black Horse Limited didnt provide the support it should have when 
she experienced difficulties making her repayments due under her hire purchase agreement 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic. She says that had the correct support been provided she 
wouldnt have needed to sell her car.
What happened
Miss J entered a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in March 2019 to acquire a car. 
The repayments were for £349 a month over four years. In February 2021, Miss J contacted 
Black Horse as she had lost her job due to the Covid-19 pandemic and had taken a lower 
paid job meaning she was struggling to make her repayments. She says she had expected 
her salary to increase again in July or August. 
Miss J requested a payment holiday and was told this could be provided for one month at a 
time and she would need to call back each month. She says that when she called to request 
a fourth month of payment holiday she was told she had already received five months and 
only had one more request left. The following month she was told she had used the full six 
months of payment holiday. 
Miss J says that she had only used five months payment holiday and was told that as there 
were 31 days in March she had effectively used two payment holidays that month. Miss J 
says that because she only had the benefit of five months of payment holidays her 
repayments were required before her salary was due to increase. She says this meant she 
had to sell her car meaning she lost the money she had invested in the car to that time. She 
also said that her payment in February 2021 was taken when she was told this wouldnt 
happen.
Black Horse issued its final response letter in July 2021. It said that no error had been made 
in the application of interest but that when Miss J called in February 2021 two payment 
holidays had been requested in the same month. Because of this it paid her £250 for the 
poor service she had received.
Miss J didnt think Black Horse response was sufficient and referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator upheld Miss Js complaint. He noted the issue about the February 2021 
payment being taken but didnt think that Black Horse had done anything wrong in regard to 
this and as the payment holiday had been back dated to February and the February 
payment had been refunded he thought this resolved this issue.
Regarding the payment holidays, our investigator found the information provided by Black 
Horse wasnt clear and he thought Miss J was given misleading information about the 
reason for the issue with her payment holidays when she called in May 2021. He noted the 
compensation paid but thought there was more to consider. He said Miss J was entitled to 
six months of payment holiday and only received five. He noted the resolution Miss J had 
requested but didnt think that Black Horse was required to refund her payments or 
insurance noting Miss J had use of the car while she was making these payments. He noted 
that Miss J was put in an awkward position of having to make another payment towards the 
car before she was expecting to but thought there could have been other options available 
before selling the car. He did think the issue had caused Miss J unnecessary stress and 
anxiety by not receiving six months of payment holidays and recommended Black Horse pay 
a further £300 compensation because of this.
Black Horse accepted our investigators view.
Miss J didnt think the additional compensation was enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss J contacted Black Horse Limited in February 2021 to ask about her options regarding 
her agreement as her income had reduced due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Having listened to 
the call she was provided with the different options including settling the agreement, 
voluntary termination and a payment deferral. 
At the time of the call the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance in place for firms 
dealing with customers who were experiencing, or reasonably expected to experience, 
temporary payment difficulties as a result of coronavirus was that payment deferrals should 
be provided. These were initially recommended for three months and then the guidance was 
updated to say a second three month period should be provided, so long as there were no 
concerns that this would put the customer in a worse situation. In this case I think it 
reasonable that Miss J was provided with a payment deferral and think this should have 
been available for six months.
When Miss J called in February, her February payment was already in the process of being 
made and this was explained. Miss J said she didnt have the money to make the payment. 
The adviser notes this and puts in a request that no further attempts are made to take the 
payment. However, Miss J did have the funds in her account and so the payment was taken. 
Given the timing of the payment and the discussion about this I do not find I can say that 
Black Horse did anything wrong regarding this payment. Miss J called Black Horse after the 
payment was taken and it was explained that a payment holiday had been put in place 
retrospectively for February and that her February payment would be refunded. I find this 
resolves this issue.
Miss J was told that although six months of payment deferral was available, only one month 
deferral could be put in place on the February call and she would need to call back each 
month to have the next months deferral put in place. However, when Miss J called to put the 
payment deferrals in place she was told she had been provided with more payment deferrals 
than was the case. In the May 2021 call, Miss J is given unclear information about the 
payment deferrals and the adviser does say the situation is confusing. In the response 
provided by Black Horse, this issue still remained unclear. However, the key point to note is 
that while Miss J was told she had six months of payment deferrals she was only provided 
with five. Black Horse recognised it hadnt provided the service it should have and paid £250 
compensation. I think this is reasonable to compensate for the confusion caused however 
there is still the outstanding issue that Miss J should have been provided with payment 
deferrals for six months and only received these for five months.
Miss J asked for her payments to be refunded for the two years she had been paying 
towards the agreement. I do not require Black Horse to do this as Miss J had use of the car for that period and so it is reasonable she would have made those payments. Miss J has 
said that because she was only provided with five months rather than six months of payment 
deferrals she needed to sell the car. While I appreciate she was in a very difficult situation at 
that time, it was her decision to sell the car and I do not have evidence to show that she had 
attempted other routes to mitigate her situation. I also note Miss J had said in the February 
call about selling the car back to Black Horse so this appears to have been something she 
had been considering. 
Overall, while it was Miss Js decision to sell the car at that time I think the additional stress 
and anxiety she was caused by not having the full six months payment deferral and the 
consequences of this needs to be recognised. Because of this I agree with our investigators 
recommendation that Black Horse pay Miss J a further £300 compensation. I know Miss J 
doesnt think this is enough but in this case I find this, along with the other compensation 
already paid is a reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
Putting things right
Black Horse should pay Miss J an additional £300 compensation (additional to the £250 
already paid) in recognition of the stress and inconvenience caused by not providing the full 
six months of payment holiday.
My final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limited should take the actions above in resolution of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman