DRN-2972004
The complaint
Mr L has complained to Broadgate Financial Management LLP Broadgate about advice he 
received to transfer out of the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension 
plan.  
Mr L is being assisted with his complaint by a professional representative.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ls employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr L was unsure what he should do, so in February 2017 he contacted Broadgate for advice. 
After initially meeting with Broadgate, Mr L was referred to another firm, Ill refer to this firm 
as Firm B. This was because Broadgate didnt have the necessary permissions to advise Mr 
L on the pension transfer. 
After receiving advice from Firm B, Mr L transferred his BSPS benefits to a personal 
pension. The agency for the personal pension was then switched to Broadgate. Mr L took his 
tax free cash in August 2017 and then Broadgate invested his funds in line with his attitude 
to risk. 
In January 2020 Mr L, with assistance from his representative, complained to Broadgate 
about the advice he had received to transfer his pension. Broadgate didnt think it was 
responsible for the advice Mr L received to transfer so it referred the complaint to Firm B. 
Firm B rejected the complaint so Mr L referred the matter to our service.  
Mr Ls representative provided detailed submissions to this service, setting out why 
Broadgate is jointly responsible for the advice Mr L received to transfer his pension. 
In summary, Mr Ls representative has said that Broadgate and Firm B operated a joint 
venture, and their combined advice led to Mr L transferring his BSPS benefits to a personal 
pension. And even if no advice was given by Broadgate  it was still obliged to act with skill, 
care and to treat Mr L fairly. And it considers there is authority from both this service and the 
courts to support this position regardless of whether Broadgate provided any advice. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators but they concluded that Broadgate 
wasnt responsible for the advice given to Mr L to transfer his pension. So they didnt uphold 
the complaint. 
Mr L has asked for a final decision on this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L is unhappy that he was advised to transfer his benefits out of the BSPS. Its clear from 
the paperwork on file that Firm B gave Mr L that advice. Firm B had the relevant permissions 
to complete this transfer. The BSPS wouldnt have allowed the transfer to proceed if the 
request hadnt come from a firm with the correct permissions. So, in the case of Mr L, the 
transfer wouldnt have gone ahead without Firm Bs involvement. Mr L has referred a 
separate complaint to this service about the actions of Firm B. This decision only relates to 
the complaint against Broadgate.
Although Firm B is responsible for the pension transfer advice, I have considered whether 
Broadgate should also be held accountable for the advice given to Mr L to transfer out of the 
BSPS.  
Mr L met with Broadgate initially before being referred to Firm B. While Mr L may now 
understand it was because Broadgate didnt have the relevant permission to advise on the 
pension transfer, Mr L says at the time he was told it was because Firm B had better 
insurance. Regardless of what Mr Ls understanding was of the reason for being referred, I 
think he understood the advice he received to transfer his pension came from Firm B. 
Ive reviewed the paperwork that was completed with Broadgate before the referral to Firm B 
and I cant see anything that would constitute Broadgate giving advice to transfer the 
pension at that stage. However, I do accept that Broadgate may have spoken positively 
about the transfer to Mr L. It was hoping to provide Mr L with ongoing advice, should the 
transfer go ahead. So I think its likely that Broadgate would have hoped that Mr L would 
transfer. But in my view, none of Broadgates interactions with Mr L in this regard ultimately 
caused the potential losses he may have suffered. Firm B gave Mr L the advice to transfer 
and without its involvement the transfer wouldnt have gone ahead. 
Mr Ls representative has said that even if Broadgate didnt give advice, its still liable for this 
matter. It says this because it considers there was a joint venture between the two firms. Its 
referenced a previous decision issued by this service and a court case, which it considers 
supports its argument that Broadgate should be held jointly liable for advice provided by Firm 
B.  
However, this service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So the right 
outcome in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual circumstances 
can vary so much. And whilst I must have regard for the law, the decision I come to on what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, may be different to what a 
court would decide. So in deciding this complaint, Im only considering the individual facts 
and merits relating to Mr Ls dealings with Broadgate. 
Mr Ls representative also says Broadgate breached its regulatory obligations to treat Mr L 
fairly and have due regard to his best interests when dealing with Firm B.  But Broadgate 
didnt have the required permissions to give advice on a pension transfer, so it couldnt be 
expected to advise Mr L not to transfer. When a firm doesnt have the right permissions or 
qualifications, its generally considered acceptable to refer clients to a firm that does. 
Mr Ls representative says that it represents a large number of clients that transferred away 
from the BSPS after Broadgate referred them to Firm B. However, even if this was the case, 
I think on balance its more likely Broadgate referred customers to Firm B on the 
understanding that it would provide suitable advice, rather than on the premise that Firm B would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable or not. 
Its not reasonable to expect a firm who doesnt have permission or qualifications to provide 
pension transfer advice, to be able to identify whether advice given by a firm who does have 
those permissions was unsuitable. I think Broadgate were allowed to rely on Firm B, who 
was regulated, had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary qualifications, 
to provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately Firm Bs obligation to provide Mr L with independent and suitable advice. 
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr L to transfer, Firm B - as the expert in this field  ought to have 
clearly told him. And had it done so and provided reasons why, I dont think any previous 
discussions with Broadgate would have likely made Mr L go against Firm Bs advice. 
Particularly as Mr L understood that the advice he was receiving to transfer was coming from 
Firm B. 
In summary, I think it was Firm Bs advice that caused Mr L to transfer and that its fully 
responsible for any losses Mr L may have suffered, if the advice was unsuitable. I dont think 
any loss Mr L may have suffered as a result of transferring away from the BSPS was caused 
by Broadgate. So I dont consider it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman