DRN-2911371
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mrs D says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ds
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and
exclusions of cover arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant:
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ds. I havent set out that detailed information
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons
for this conclusion below:
Mrs D has said she was unaware shed taken the policy and would not have knowingly 
taken it out. But I think AXA made it clear that Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ds store card 
application and credit agreement which has been completed by hand and signed and 
dated by Mrs D. 
There is a separate section on the form entitled PAYMENT & PURCHASE 
PROTECTION which is followed by a brief description about the policy. And I see the 
box to say Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment & Purchase Protection has 
been ticked. So, I think Mrs D knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and she 
decided to add it to her store card account upon application. If Mrs D hadnt wanted the 
policy, she could have left the section blank unticked and just gone on to sign and date 
the application form for the store card itself and without the PPI.  
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D  so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs D enough clear and timely information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs D  for example she 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
given. 
It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. Mrs D has said she was financially secure and could have also 
relied upon her husband to make the card repayments if she wasnt working. But having 
the policy would have meant she wouldnt have had to use any of her other financial 
means to make the repayments in the event she wasnt able to work. And she wouldnt 
have needed to rely on her husbands help  whose own circumstances could have 
changed  so his offer of assistance couldnt have been relied upon. Because of this I 
dont think Mrs D would have declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs D would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman