DRN-2910957
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy with the settlement AXA Insurance UK Plc has paid her for a curtailment 
claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss D took out an annual travel insurance policy in December 2019 to cover a backpacking 
trip she planned to take. Miss D didnt book a return flight ahead of her departure. She 
travelled as planned in January 2020 and was in a country Ill call J. However, on 23 March 
2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
advised all UK nationals abroad to return home. So Miss D organised a return flight to the 
UK and flew home on 1 April 2020. She made a curtailment claim on her policy for the costs 
of the new flight and other expenses associated with cutting short her trip.
AXA partly settled Miss Ds claim. It agreed to cover the costs of an unused Visa for a 
country she was due to travel on to and the unused portion of a rail pass. But it didnt agree 
to cover the cost of Miss Ds flight back to the UK. It said that Miss D wouldve always 
needed to pay for a flight back to the UK at the end of her trip. And the curtailment section of 
the policy didnt cover her situation. It did recognise itd provided Miss D with poor service 
though, so it paid her £50 compensation.
Miss D was unhappy with AXAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy 
terms didnt cover additional expenses Miss D had incurred when she cut short her trip. She 
said that had Miss D had a pre-booked return flight which she couldnt use due to cutting 
short the trip, shed have expected AXA to meet the cost of it. But in this case, as Miss D 
didnt have a return flight pre-booked, she didnt think the cost of the new ticket was covered. 
She agreed that AXA hadnt handled Miss Ds claim as well as it couldve done though, so 
she felt itd been fair for it to pay Miss D £50 compensation.
Miss D disagreed. She said itd been impossible to book a flight before she left, because 
flights couldnt be booked a year in advance. She said she felt at a loss, having only used 
two and half months of the policy shed paid for. She didnt think she shouldve been sold the 
policy. She said £50 wasnt enough compensation to recognise AXAs poor handling of the 
claim.  She told us shed paid much more for a return flight than shed have done were it not 
for the pandemic, so she felt it would be fair for AXA to reimburse her for the difference 
between the flight cost she paid and what shed normally have paid. Shed followed the 
governments advice to return home. And she considered that if AXA didnt meet the cost of 
her flight, it ought to refund her full policy premium.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Miss D, I think AXA has settled her claim fairly. 
Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Miss Ds circumstances and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether AXA 
handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Miss Ds policy, as these form the basis of her contract with 
AXA. Theres no dispute that Miss Ds trip had to be curtailed several months before shed 
intended to return to the UK. So I think it was appropriate for AXA to consider the claim 
under the Cancelling or Cutting Short a Trip section of the policy. This says:
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for your proportion only of 
your irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid 
charges if you need to cancel or cut short your trip following any of the reasons which are 
shown in the table below.
One of the insured events AXA covers under this section of the policy is a policyholder 
cutting short their trip due to the FCO advising against all but essential travel to the area 
theyre travelling to or in. In this case, Miss D curtailed her holiday because the FCO advised 
UK nationals abroad to return to the UK. So I think her circumstances fell within the scope of 
policy cover.
I think though that the contract terms make it clear that AXA will only cover unused travel, 
accommodation and other pre-paid charges. AXA accepted that Miss D wasnt able to use 
part of her rail pass, or any of the Visa shed already paid for. So it settled these costs in line 
with the policy terms. I think this was reasonable and appropriate. 
However, Miss D didnt claim for unused travel costs as she hadnt booked a return flight 
before she travelled. If shed done so, I think its likely AXA wouldve agreed to settle her pre-
paid travel costs. But Miss D didnt suffer the financial loss of a pre-booked flight which she 
couldnt use due to the curtailment of her trip. Instead she paid for a flight which she used at 
the time she needed to fly. And whenever Miss D had flown back to the UK, shed have to 
pay to fly home. So I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to conclude that the cost of the 
flight wasnt something the policy covered.
Its clear Miss D feels strongly that given the pandemic, she paid significantly more for her 
return flight than shed have had to pay had her trip gone as planned. Ive thought about this. 
But while I sympathise with Miss Ds position, as I appreciate shes been left out of pocket, I 
think it was fair for AXA to decide that the difference between standard and 
contemporaneous flight costs werent covered by the policy. This means then that I find it 
was fair for AXA not to pay any settlement for Miss Ds flight costs.
Miss D has suggested she feels that AXA should pay a refund of her policy premiums. In 
some circumstances, I might decide its fair and reasonable for an insurer to refund a 
policyholder a pro-rata refund of premium following the cancellation of their policy. In this 
case though, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Miss D did cancel her policy. This 
means AXA was on risk for the full policy term, including the risk it carried while she was 
away. And Ive also noted that the amount AXA paid out for Miss Ds claim (inclusive of the excess) is broadly the amount she paid for the policy. So I dont think it would be fair for me 
to direct AXA to refund Miss Ds premium when its clear shes benefitted from the cover.
I can see though that AXA didnt handle the claim as well as it couldve done. It didnt make 
call backs when it shouldve done and while I appreciate it dealt with the claim in line with the 
timeframes it gave Miss D, I think its errors wouldve caused her some upset and frustration. 
So Im pleased to see that AXA recognised that itd made mistakes and paid Miss D £50 
compensation in recognition of the way itd handled the claim. Im satisfied this is a fair and 
reasonable amount and so Im not telling it to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman