DRN-2212276
The complaint
Mr C complains that Secure Trust Bank plc, trading as V12 Retail Finance, wont refund to 
him the money that he paid for a chair. 
What happened
Mr C used a fixed sum loan agreement with Secure Trust Bank, that he electronically signed 
in April 2018, to pay for a chair. The price of the chair was £598, he paid a deposit of £59 
and agreed to repay the loan by 47 monthly repayments of £11.23 and a final payment of 
£11.19. The loan was interest free.
He complained to the supplier about an issue with the chair and it arranged for it to be 
inspected in November 2018. The inspection report said All correct and that the issue was 
caused by the way that Mr C was leaning on one side of the chair. Mr C complained to 
another dispute resolution service but it said that the claim fails.
Mr C then claimed a refund of the cost of the sofa from Secure Trust Bank under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that the suppliers technician had advised that the 
issue was caused by leaning on it and that the dispute resolution service had confirmed that 
there was no manufacturing fault present. It said that Mr C would need to provide an 
independent report outlining the nature and cause of the fault for it to be able to consider his 
claim further.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service but our investigator 
didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that Secure Trust Bank 
had dealt with his claim fairly, it was fair for it to ask him to provide more evidence and it 
reasonably concluded that there was no evidence presented to validate his section 75 claim.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that it isnt 
fair or just that an engineer who works for the supplier makes this decision and that Secure 
Trust Bank should pay for an independent review of that decision. He says that the photos 
that hes provided clearly show a design or technical fault with the chair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Cs complaint about Secure Trust Bank, I must be satisfied 
that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier and that 
Secure Trust Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable 
 but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Cs claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that;
the supplier arranged for the chair to be inspected - the report said All correct and 
that the issue was caused by the way that Mr C was leaning on one side of the chair;
Mr C complained to another dispute resolution service but it said that his claim failed;
Mr C has provided photos which he says show the issue with the chair and he made 
a claim to Secure Trust Bank  I consider that it was reasonable for it to rely on the 
conclusions reached in the inspection report and by the dispute resolution service  
and it said that Mr C would need to provide an independent report outlining the 
nature and cause of the fault for it to be able to consider his claim further;
I consider that that was a fair and reasonable response to Mr Cs claim and Im not 
persuaded that there was any requirement for Secure Trust Bank to arrange another 
inspection of the chair;
Mr C has provided photos of the chair but he hasnt provided an independent report 
outlining the nature and cause of the fault and Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
I sympathise with Mr C for the issues that he has with the chair but I consider that 
Secure Trust Bank has responded to his claim fairly and reasonably; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Secure Trust Bank to end the loan agreement, to refund to Mr C the price of the chair 
or any of the repayments that hes made under the loan agreement, to pay him any 
other compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman