DRN-3662906
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt make the process 
clear for the cancellation and encashment of a whole of life (WOL) insurance policy. They 
complain they werent told to continue with their direct debit until the surrender forms had 
been returned. 
What happened
The background of the complaint is already well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in 
detail here. In summary, Mr C called to cancel the WOL policy he held jointly with Mrs C in 
April 2021 and cancelled his direct debit. However, he found out the policy hadnt been 
cancelled and the charges associated with the life cover and other benefits had been 
deducted from the overall value of the policy. 
Mr C complained to Aviva who sent their final response. Mr C remained unhappy and asked 
our service to investigate. During the investigation, Aviva offered Mr and Mrs C £100 
compensation as an apology. 
Our Investigator issued a view explaining why they felt Avivas offer was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. Therefore, the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs C that Ive thought carefully about everything submitted. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs Cs time in making the submissions to our service. If I dont mention a 
specific point its not because Ive not considered it, its simply because I dont think I need to 
comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome in this particular case.  
Ive listened to the call between Mr C and Aviva on 12 April 2021. Mr C clearly instructed 
Aviva to stop the policy with immediate effect and cash in the fund. Aviva took some details 
and confirmed they would send out the surrender form within ten working days. Mr C has 
said he understood the policy was cancelled following the call. However, Im satisfied it was 
reasonably clear he needed to take further action and return the surrender form before Aviva 
could cancel the policy.
  
During the call, Mr C did tell Aviva he would cancel the direct debit. Aviva should have 
explained the consequences of doing so if a payment fell due before the surrender form was 
returned. This would have given Mr and Mrs C more clarity about the cancellation process. 
However, as explained above, I think it was clear Aviva needed to receive the surrender 
form before cancelling the policy and so it could be understood the policy was still in force 
and premiums due.
 
Additionally, Ive seen the surrender form was sent promptly to Mr C on 14 April 2021. Aviva 
asked for some further information to complete the request to cancel the policy. Mr C has 
said he thought the surrender form was only in respect of the investment element of the 
policy and didnt realise it was needed to cancel the insurance element. However, Im 
satisfied it was clear from this letter and what the call handler had explained over the phone 
that the surrender form was necessary to cancel the policy. There was no reference to 
separate elements of the policy. 
Moreover, on 15 April 2021 Aviva sent Mr C an overdue premiums statement and confirmed 
the amount due. They also stated that if the payment was not received then the unpaid 
premium conditions would apply. Mr and Mrs C have said the next line stated the policy may 
be cancelled so they thought this would be the consequence and this was something they 
wanted in any event. Also, elsewhere in the letter it said units would not be purchased until 
payment is received. 
I appreciate some more detail might have been helpful here about the specific conditions. I 
recognise Avivas letter of 19 May 2021 did explain the cost of maintaining the life cover and 
other benefits would be met by deducting charges from the total value of the units. 
Nevertheless, Im satisfied reference to the conditions in the letter of 15 April 2021 provided 
Mr and Mrs C the opportunity to check the conditions, and also gave them an opportunity to 
bring the premiums up to date if they wanted to.
 
Overall, Im satisfied Aviva should have been clearer about the cancellation process and 
consequences of cancelling the direct debit. But they sent the surrender form and missed 
premium statement promptly. Im satisfied it was reasonably clear that Aviva needed the 
surrender form before carrying out Mr and Mrs Cs request. Therefore, I dont agree Aviva 
have caused Mr and Mrs C a financial loss. It was reasonable for Aviva to apply the unpaid 
premium conditions because it was clear the policy was still in force and premiums hadnt 
been paid. 
Putting things right
Aviva should have been clearer about the consequences of cancelling the direct debit. 
Whilst I dont agree Aviva have caused a financial loss, I can understand the frustration 
caused. Therefore, Avivas offer to pay Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr and Mrs C 
£100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman