DRN-2181154
The complaint
Miss E complains that her insurance broker acting on behalf of Berkshire Hathaway 
International Insurance Limited didnt assist her in making an address change to her motor 
insurance policy and then unfairly cancelled her policy.
What happened
Miss E had a car insurance policy with Berkshire Hathaway arranged by her broker. She 
contacted her broker on 28 November 2019 to let them know she had moved home and 
also to add her private car registration to the policy. The change in address generated a 
new premium, so they asked her to pay this along with an administration fee. She says they 
wouldnt accept payment on the phone and directed her to do this online. She was given 
until the 3 December 2019 and then extended to 10 December 2019 to make the payment. 
And because the payment wasnt made in time her broker cancelled the policy on behalf of 
Berkshire Hathaway. 
She feels that her broker and Berkshire Hathaway should have given her a chance to make 
the payment and were wrong to cancel her insurance policy. She says she should have 
been given seven days to make the payment from when her policy was generated a second 
time on 5 December 2019 giving her until 12 December 2019 to make the payment. Her 
broker cancelled the policy with the authority of Berkshire Hathaway on 10 December 2019. 
She feels the impact of cancellation outweighs the short delay in making the payment as it 
will cause her further financial difficulties. She wants the cancelation marker removed.
Her broker has said they entered her new address on 28 November 2019 which generated 
an additional premium of £59.74 for the remainder of her policy so they asked her to pay 
this. They say they gave Miss E clear instructions on how to make the payment. They say 
they also made it clear the policy would be cancelled if they didnt receive payment by the 
deadline given. As Miss E didnt make the payment so they cancelled the insurance policy. 
Our investigator said that her broker on behalf of Berkshire Hathaway had given Miss E a 
reasonable time to pay the additional premium and had cancelled the insurance according 
to the terms of the policy. So, she didnt uphold Miss Es complaint. Miss E didnt agree 
with the investigator, so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I will explain why. 
Miss Es policy terms do allow Berkshire Hathaway or their broker on their behalf to 
cancel her policy in certain circumstances. Included in a list of reasons is where they are 
unable to collect the premiums. So, Ive considered if Miss Es broker on behalf of 
Berkshire Hathaway cancelled the policy fairly and in line with the terms and conditions. 
were clear instructions given?
Miss E informed her broker about a change of address on 28 November 2019. The 
evidence Ive seen shows she was informed here that the additional payment of £59.74 had 
to be made and that this payment was for the change of address. 
She was told that the payment must be made within seven days and that if payment wasnt 
received before the cancellation date the policy would be cancelled. This gave her until 5 
December 2020, but no payment was made. 
Miss E was told she couldnt make the payment on the phone and had to do this via her 
online account, and Ive seen that this was made clear to her in her communications with 
her broker. So, Im satisfied that the instructions she was given were clear.
sufficient notice to cancel?
I have also seen that on 3 December, Miss E herself logged into the online account and 
could have made the payment then. But instead she cancelled the quotation she was 
given on 28 November 2019, so her broker proceeded to issue a seven day cancellation 
notice on the same day. The notice clearly says that the policy would be cancelled on 10 
December 2019 if payment wasnt received. Miss E didnt make the payment in this time 
and no request to postpone the cancellation was received, so her broker cancelled her 
insurance policy when the notice period expired. 
A new quotation was generated on 5 December 2019 and I understand Miss E expected 
to get a further seven days extension of time from this date. But the notice was in relation 
to cancellation of the existing policy not the quotation given to her on 28 November 2019. 
The original cancellation notice giving her seven days to respond was never cancelled 
and I havent seen that any new cancellation letter was issued. Having looked at all the 
evidence, I cant see that there was any mention of an extension of time to make the 
payment when the new quote was generated. And I think the online communication 
between Miss E and her broker made it clear that payment would need to be made by 10 
December 2019 or the policy would be cancelled. 
I understand Miss E wasnt happy that she was being asked to pay this amount and 
complained to her broker about it. In an attempt to settle the dispute, they agreed to 
waive any fee for adding the private registration plate, but she was still required to pay 
£59.74 and this was consistent through the communications between them. I cant see 
that any changes were made to the cancellation period that she was already given as a 
result of having made this complaint.
It has also become clear from earlier communications with her broker that Miss E had 
changed address much earlier than November 2019. And this means she should have 
asked her broker to change it much earlier. And I think they could have justified 
backdating the revised premium to this date. But they didnt do this, and I think this shows 
they (on behalf of Berkshire Hathaway) acted more than reasonably with regards to this 
and the change of registration plate.
I appreciate what Miss E says was a difficult time because of her circumstances, but I 
also feel that her brokers instructions on what she had to do where clear. They had given 
her five days to make the payment in addition to the extension she was already given. 
She was given 12 days in total from 28 November 2019 until 10 December 2019 to make 
the payment, so, I think sufficient notice was given. Im satisfied her brokers decision to 
cancel the policy on behalf of Berkshire Hathaway was in line with the policy terms and 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking Berkshire Hathaway to do 
anything further.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Es complaint against 
Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman