DRN-3348744
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) declined a 
transaction he tried to make using his charge card.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr A tried to make a transaction of £20,000. Amex declined it and 
suspended his account. They asked him to provide financial information for an account 
review.
Mr A was unhappy with this as he lost around £1,000 from the transaction being refused and 
says he was caused embarrassment. He says hed called Amex a few days prior to making 
the transaction and was given incorrect information about the spending limit on his card. He 
asked Amex to cancel his account.
Amex said that they couldnt find evidence to show Mr A was misled about his spending limit. 
They confirmed that while there wasnt a pre-set limit on his card, they could decline 
transactions when they deemed appropriate. They explained the account was suspended 
correctly as per the terms and conditions. As a gesture of goodwill, they refunded the pro-
rata amount of the chargeable annual membership fee Mr A paid.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator said that it was reasonable for 
Amex to decline the transaction and didnt make any recommendations. Mr A disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account. The most relevant terms to this 
complaint relate to when Amex may refuse to make a transaction and suspend the account:
We may refuse to authorise a transaction if: 

we reasonably consider that acting on your instructions might lead to:
oa breach of law, regulation, code or other obligations; or
oaction from a government, law enforcement agency or regulator;
We may suspend your account or any feature on your account if:

we reasonably think there's a significantly increased risk that you'll not be 
able to repay us.
In line with the relevant law, rules and standards that apply, its part of Amexs responsibility 
to ensure that any lending is affordable. Therefore, Im satisfied Amex were entitled to stop 
the transaction and suspend Mr As account as they had concerns over his ability to repay 
them. 
I think Amexs concerns here were legitimate. I say this because Mr A was attempting to 
make a large transaction which was high in relation to his declared income of £57,000. 
Mr As statement for the year prior to the transaction, shows that the payment he attempted 
to make was significantly more than he usually spent. Amex have also shown that at the 
time of the transaction, Mr As credit file reported a total debt of around £25,500 across two 
credit cards and a loan. I think this would rightly alert Amex to ask questions to establish 
whether Mr A could afford to be further indebted. 
The income information Amex had recorded was in 2016. So, it may not have been accurate 
at the point when Mr A attempted the transaction. Mr As circumstances may have changed 
since for the better or worse. He may also have had other means of repaying Amex, despite 
his other credit commitments.
Based on this, I dont think it was unreasonable for Amex to stop the transaction and request 
further information to satisfy themselves that Mr A could repay the amount. The transaction 
posed a significantly increased risk on them  particularly since Mr A would be expected to 
repay the full balance at the next due date. 
Mr A decided not to provide Amex with the information they asked for  as is his right. But I 
cant fairly say that Amex were wrong to request financial information as part of an account 
review to assess his affordability. In fact, as explained, wed expect a responsible lender to 
take such steps to ensure any borrowing was affordable. 
Mr A says that he spoke to Amex around ten days before he attempted to make the 
transaction. He was told that he didnt have a limit on his card, and he should be able to 
spend up to £50,000. Based on this, he didnt anticipate any problems.
Ive looked at Amexs system notes and they dont have any records of Mr A contacting them 
prior to making the transaction. And due to the time thats passed, it isnt possible to locate 
call recordings either, as theyre no longer available. So, I cant say with complete certainty 
that Mr A spoke to Amex prior to making the transaction.
But even if I accept Mr As version of events, the information he says he was provided 
seems to be accurate as its consistent with the nature of his account which doesnt have a 
pre-set limit. And Mr As transaction wasnt declined because he didnt have enough 
available credit, it was due to requiring an account review to confirm his affordability.
I accept Mr A was caused embarrassment and inconvenience when his payment was 
refused. This doesnt mean Amex are at fault for declining the transaction or for requesting 
information to complete additional checks. I say this because Amex had a genuine reason to 
stop the transaction and suspend the account in line with the terms and conditions. 
As a gesture of goodwill, Amex have refunded the pro-rata amount of the chargeable annual 
membership fee of £31.46. They werent required to do this as Mr A had use of the card and because Amex havent done anything wrong in stopping the transaction and suspending the 
account pending a review. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Amex have treated Mr A fairly and wont be asking them to do 
anything else to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman