DRN-1628769
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a fee-paying Silver 
packaged bank account in October 2012. 
Mrs K says she was she was led to believe that the Silver account was the only accessible 
option available to her and that the monthly fee for the account was obligatory. Mrs K has 
also said that she was led to believe that the monthly fee was for the account itself, rather 
than for a package of benefits.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint. She didnt think that Lloyds had mis-sold the 
Silver account to Mrs K. 
Mrs Ks representative disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and so the complaint 
has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mrs Ks complaint. 
I think it might help to explain that where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, 
as is the case here, I make my decision based on what I think was most likely to have 
happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider circumstances at the time. 
Having considered everything that Mrs K, her representative and Lloyds have said and 
provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs K says that she was new to country, didnt speak English and says that she was 
presented with only one account  the fee-paying Silver account. Whereas Lloyds says that 
its sales processes at the time wouldve required the member of staff to discuss the account 
options available to Mrs K, which included fee-free accounts. 
Lloyds has been able to provide some of the documents that were created during the sale 
of the account to Mrs K  including an Interview Summary Document. This document 
suggests that a number of products were discussed with Mrs K, including a credit card, 
three different types of savings accounts and two different types of current account  the 
fee-paying Silver account and a fee-free Classic account. For example, the document 
suggests it was explained to Mrs K that a fee-free Classic account came with an interest 
free overdraft of up to £25, whereas the Silver account came with one of up to £50, 
alongside the other benefits.
When comparing the products that Mrs K took out at the time and the Interview Summary 
Document, I think its more likely than not that the document reflects what was discussed 
with Mrs K during the sale. Therefore, on balance, I think that its more likely that Mrs K was 
made aware that a fee-paying account was not obligatory and that a fee-free alternative 
existed. So I think Mrs K was in all likelihood given a fair choice.
Lloyds says it recommended the account to Mrs K. This meant it had to make sure it was a 
good fit for her circumstances at the time.
In October 2012, the Silver account cost £9.95 per month and provided European travel 
insurance, mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover. As well as the overdraft benefit 
mentioned above.
It appears that Mrs K had a mobile phone at the time and did occasionally travel. And as 
the Silver account that was the cheapest account to including mobile phone insurance and 
travel insurance, I think that recommending the Silver account to Mrs K was not 
unreasonable in the circumstances. I say this particularly as it looks as though Mrs K later 
went on to use the overdraft benefit too.
As well as making sure it was right for Mrs K, Lloyds also had to provide Mrs K with all of 
the important information about the account so that she understood what she was agreeing 
to. Mrs K has said that she was new to the UK at the time and didnt understand English. 
However, the sales document suggests that a number of products were discussed with Mrs 
K. And I can see that she went on to register four different handsets under the mobile 
phone insurance provided by the account  with the first handset registered in branch on 25 
October 2012.
Given all of this, I cant reasonably conclude that Mrs K didnt understand, at least generally 
speaking, what shed agreed to. And I think that her registering a phone in branch shortly 
after the account was sold to her (and later doing so by phoning Lloyds and registering 
phones online) not only indicates that she had need for the insurance, but also that she was 
broadly given enough information about how to go about registering details of the handset, 
to ensure it was covered.
I appreciate that Mrs K might not have been told everything about all of the benefits the 
Silver account came with. But Ive not seen anything about her circumstances at the time, 
that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had she been given 
even more information about it.
Therefore taking everything into account, I dont think that the Silver account was mis-sold 
to Mrs K.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think Mrs Ks Silver account was mis-sold. I 
therefore do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman