DRN-3153263
The complaint
Mr G says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr G took out an 18-month instalment loan for £750 from Loans 2 Go on 7 August 2018. The
monthly repayment was £169.92 and the total repayable was £3058.56.
He says taking out the loan caused him problems and he had to borrow more money to
repay it.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said the lenders
affordability checks showed Mr G would be left with £75.36 a month. So if seasonal and
unplanned costs were taken into account the lender should have realised there was a risk
the loan would not be sustainable for Mr G.
Loans 2 Go disagreed. It said its assessment showed Mr G would be left with a monthly
disposable income of £220.10 and so the loan was affordable.
As an agreement wasnt reached, the case was passed to me to make a decision. I reached 
the same conclusion as the adjudicator but relied on a different finding, so I issued a 
provisional decision (an extract follows and forms part of this final decision). I asked both 
parties to send any comments and evidence by 11 November 2021.
 
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr G before it approved the loan. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It then completed an income verification
check with a third party. It adjusted his declared expenditure to ensure it was reasonable and
added a buffer for unplanned costs. It checked Mr Gs credit file to understand his existing
monthly credit commitments and credit history. It asked about the purpose of the loan, which
was home improvements. From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded the loan was
affordable for Mr G.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered.
The lender has challenged the adjudicators assessment of Mr Gs disposable income. It
seems the discrepancy lies in whether the 10% buffer is included in the £1,447.43 of cost, or
whether it was added to that number. In its final response letter Loans 2 Go wrote:
I note that your client declared their monthly income as £2,200, we verified that they
received a minimum of £1,837.45 monthly via an online income verification tool. Your client
declared their monthly expenditure and credit commitments to total £400, however, following
an extensive review of the application, in addition to their credit file, we calculated them to
total £1,447.43. We also then added a buffer of 10% to your clients verified expenditure to
account for any fluctuations in their monthly income or expenditure, even after which, the
contractual loan repayments of £169.92 would have still been affordable.
So I feel the adjudicators assessment is fair: it reflects what the lender sets out above. The
lender disagrees and infers the buffer is included in the £1,447.43 which increases Mr Gs
disposable income. It hasnt supplied any evidence of the calculation it carried out at the time
of the application so I cant know conclusively whether the £1,447.43 includes the buffer, or
not. However I dont need to reach a conclusion on this as I think there are other grounds on
which to uphold the case.
Loans 2 Go knew from its credit check that Mr G was spending around £760 a month to
manage his existing credit commitments, assuming the minimum payment was made on his
credit cards. This was already a significant proportion of his income. Giving the loan meant
Mr G would need to commit around half his income to meet all of his contractual credit
repayments. I think the lender ought to have realised that this meant there was a high risk
Mr G would be unable to sustainably repay the loan over an 18-month time period. And it
was most likely he would need to borrow to repay it or suffer some other kind of financial
harm.
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give the loan to Mr G.
I havent found that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in some other
way.
I then set out what Loans 2 Go would need to do if I upheld the complaint.
Both parties responded before the deadline saying they had no further information to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here. 
As neither Mr G nor the lender sent in any new information or comments I have no reason to 
change the findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. It follows I find Loans 2 
Go was wrong to give the loan to Mr G.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
It seems Loans 2 Go hasnt sold the outstanding debt. But if it has it should buy it back if it is
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Loans 2 Go is not able to buy the debt
back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr G
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Gs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund theseoverpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Loans 2 Go
should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G, bearing in mind its
obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in these discussions. Loans 2
Go should not pursue any outstanding balance made up of capital it has already
written-off.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Gs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must now put things right as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman