DRN-4038251
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Santander UK Plc made unreasonable requests for 
information about its director, froze its account and provided poor customer service.
What happened
The director of P says he was unhappy to be asked for personal information by Santander. 
He says he couldnt understand what basis Santander had to ask for this. And why the 
account for P was restricted. He has spent considerable time on the phone and the funds for 
P were withheld when he wanted to close the account.
Santander said it had asked P to get in contact as it needed information as part of meeting 
regulatory requirements. This was to ensure it completed customer due diligence, kept its 
information up to date and understood the source of funds for P and its account transactions. 
The director hadnt wanted to provide all of this, and it said that as a result Ps account had 
been restricted. It then decided to close it and gave P notice and allowed the funds to be 
withdrawn. Santander apologised for the call waiting times and said that it was taking action 
to remedy the issue.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that this service 
provided informal dispute resolution. And we wouldnt be in a position to say whether specific 
know your customer type questions ought to have been asked. He referred to the terms and 
conditions of the account which set out the information that would be collected and how it 
would be used. And to an information leaflet from Santander (which he provided to P) 
explaining the potential consequences of not adhering to such requests. He said that 
Santander had explained its position to P in its first final response and that further calls from 
P in a similar vein didnt change things.
P didnt agree. The director said that he didnt think that the complaint had been understood. 
And that he had been trying to close the account since mid-November 2022 and only just 
managed to achieve this on 9 February 2023. He wanted to know precisely what information 
that P had failed to provide prompted the account to be frozen. And he said that some of the 
questions werent possible to answer. He provided a phone record showing his amount of 
time on the phone and that this wasnt to the complaints department but to the number for 
the remediation team. And even this wasnt all the time he spent which was estimated to be 
some eight hours. He referred to a notice from the Financial Conduct Authority about 
Santander and said that this showed that it hadnt allocated sufficient resources in a timely 
way to know your customer activity, and which was proven by his difficulty in communicating 
with it by phone. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the regulator, and we dont have a role in setting or reviewing processes. I 
can look at whether mistakes were made by Santander in applying its process here for P 
and whether it acted reasonably.
It follows that its a matter for it to determine how to meet regulatory requirements and the 
information and questions asked. I understand that P was particularly concerned here to be 
asked about the directors position. And I can see he spent time on the phone on 20 
September 2022 about this and then raised a complaint. Santander set out that it hadnt 
made a mistake in its process but apologised for the time that P had waited in calls. 
Ive listened to a call it made to the director of 4 November 2022 when he asked that it put 
any requests in writing. I can see he made further calls on 17 November 2022. And then on 
29 November 2022 when he was unhappy that the call was dropped after hed asked to 
speak to a supervisor. He pursued things further for P. He said that he particularly wanted to 
know why the account by then had been restricted, asked that the closing balance be 
transferred to an account of P at a different business and wanted compensation.
Santander gave a similar response each time and said that as P wasnt prepared to answer 
the questions it was unable to satisfy its checks and remove the restrictions. And it gave 
notice on 2 February 2023 that the account would be closed on 3 April 2023. I note that P 
was able to withdraw all the funds on 9 February 2023.
My assessment
I cant see that Santander has other than acted in line with its process. It allowed time for P 
to provide the information it wanted. This process would always involve a degree of 
necessary inconvenience for P and here it apologised for the call waiting time. The further 
contact with and from P was largely a consequence in my view of the director not wanting to 
provide all the information.
Santander could ultimately as it has here decide to close the account under its terms and 
conditions. And it gave a period of notice. It could also decide to restrict the account and I 
cant see that it other than gave P a reasonable period to provide the information before 
then. While I note that the director has now referred to not being able to answer all the 
questions I cant see that this was a primary part of a complaint to Santander and the focus 
before was about the intrusive nature of the questions.
Santander has apologised for what I would see as the unavoidable time in the calls of 20 
September 2022 P spent waiting which I think was a reasonable response. But Im afraid 
follow ups after that werent really for clarification but because P still didnt want to provide 
the information. For the reasons Ive given I dont consider P should fairly be compensated 
for that or for the consequences of the account being restricted and then closed.
I can appreciate that the director of P will be disappointed by my assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman