DRN-2688380
The complaint
Mr P complains about how TransferWise Ltd deal with his money transfer.
Mr P is represented by his friend in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by him directly.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 February 2021  a copy of which is set out here. In my provisional decision 
I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint and why I didnt think TransferWise 
had made an error in dealing with his money transfer. I said:
What happened
Mr P was purchasing a property abroad. He said he initially transferred funds to his 
TransferWise Sterling account from an account he held with a bank Ill call B in this 
decision. And, after Mr Ps payment from B had credited his TransferWise Sterling account, 
he intended to transfer £219000 to his TransferWise Euro account.
On 1 July 2019, Mr P set up an online instruction to transfer his funds from his TransferWise 
Sterling account to his Euro account. But the following day his funds hadnt credited his Euro 
account. So, Mr P contacted TransferWise by telephone to discuss his transfer.
TransferWise said it gave Mr P guidance as to how he could fund the payment instruction 
hed created online the previous day. But it said it didnt check whether hed correctly set up 
the transfer authority.
Mr P said he followed the guidance he was given over the telephone and expected his funds 
to credit his Euro account. But his funds were sent to a different bank where they were 
converted to Euro. And, instead of those funds crediting his TransferWise Euro account, they 
were transferred back to B, which then converted the money back into Sterling. This led to 
only £216757.01 being returned to Mr Ps account with B.
Mr P complained about what happened to TransferWise. He said hed followed advice 
provided by it in making his transfer. And, as he hadnt given an instruction for his funds to 
be transferred back to B, he felt TransferWise must have had made an error in how it had 
processed his payment request. Mr P explained hed lost over 3000 Euro as a result of his 
funds being returned to B. He wanted TransferWise to accept responsibility for what had
taken place and reimburse him for the loss hed incurred.
TransferWise investigated Mr Ps complaint but didnt uphold it. It said hed set up the online 
transfer from his TransferWise Sterling account. And it told him that, instead of entering the 
account information of his TransferWise Euro account, hed entered the details of his 
account with B. It said it had only given guidance on how he could fund the transfer 
instruction hed already set up the previous day. So, it felt he was responsible for his funds 
being returned to B.
Being dissatisfied with TransferWises response to his complaint Mr P referred it to our 
service. After our investigator assessed the evidence Mr P and TransferWise had provided 
they recommended partially upholding this complaint. They felt Mr P was partly responsible 
for his funds being returned to B. But they also thought TransferWise ought to have offered 
more assistance to Mr P. And, in order to resolve this complaint, they recommended it 
reimburse him for half the loss hed incurred when his funds were converted from Euro to 
Sterling. But TransferWise didnt agree with our investigators recommendation. So, Ive 
been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im departing from what 
our investigator has said. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mr P and TransferWise, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I 
think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr P experienced here and I can see how strongly he 
feels about his complaint. Its clear what happened caused distress and inconvenience to 
both Mr P and his wife. I recognise that the transfer in question was particularly important 
and time sensitive as the funds were required for a property purchase abroad. But, while I 
have sympathy for Mr P, my role is to assess whether I think TransferWise made a mistake, 
or treated him unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right.
I accept the evidence put forward by Mr P that it was his intention to transfer the funds that 
had credited his TransferWise Sterling account from B to his Euro account. It wouldnt have 
made sense for him to transfer those funds back to B. So, its clear an error led to that 
happening. In determining whether Mr P or TransferWise were responsible for that error Ive 
carefully considered what both say about how the transfer in question was set up.
The terms of Mr Ps account with TransferWise clearly outline that a customer must ensure 
that financial information is correctly provided. They explain:
You must make sure that the information you provide when setting up a payment order is 
accurate. If we have processed your order in accordance with the information you have 
provided to us it will be considered correctly completed even if you have made a mistake.
TransferWise has shared screenshots of the steps Mr P would have taken when setting up 
his transfer. Im satisfied these screenshots show what Mr P would have seen before he 
authorised a transfer of his funds from his TransferWise Sterling account.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that when Mr P set up his online transfer he 
set it up to credit his account with B in error instead of setting it up to transfer to his Euro 
account as he wanted. I say this because when he set up his transfer, while he added a new 
recipient, he entered the IBAN number for his account with B. So, the payment was set up to 
be sent to B.Im satisfied that Mr P would have seen the receiving account details before authorising the 
transfer. TransferWise told our service that he would also have been presented with a 
payment review page, which would have asked him to carefully check the payment account 
details were correct. It said, before finalising his transfer instruction, Mr P would have seen a 
message on its website asking him to please make sure this is a EUR bank account.
I think that was a further prompt for Mr P to check he was transferring his funds to the 
correct account. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied he would have had a 
number of opportunities before proceeding with his transfer request to notice that it was set 
up to be sent to his account with B and not his intended Euro account.
Ive listened to the call recordings TransferWise provided our service. In one call I can hear a 
TransferWise representative discussing Mr Ps transfer with him. Its clear from this 
recording that Mr P had already set up the online transfer instruction with TransferWise. As 
Ive explained, this was done without any input from TransferWise.
When Mr P discussed his transfer with TransferWise it was unfunded. The representative he 
spoke with provided him with clear guidance as to the pay-in options available  in other 
words how he could fund the payment instruction hed already created online. The 
representative didnt give advice regarding how Mr P should set up the payment instruction. 
And he didnt ask the representative to check that hed set up the transfer instruction 
correctly. No questions were asked by Mr P as to where the funds would be sent once theyd 
been transferred. Indeed, the call in question is only brief  lasting under five minutes.
I appreciate that Mr P wants me to find TransferWise was responsible for his funds being 
transferred back to B. But that would be unfair because it didnt set up the transfer on his 
behalf. And, other than giving guidance to Mr P as to how he could fund the payment 
instruction hed already set up, TransferWise had no further involvement. It had no way of 
knowing whether Mr P had correctly set up his transfer request.
While our investigator felt TransferWise could have done more to assist Mr P with his 
transfer I dont agree. I say this because it gave him clear guidance as to how he could fund 
the transfer instruction hed already set up. And, during a telephone call when it became 
aware there was a problem with the payment Mr P had made, it took steps to discuss how 
he could ask B to reject the transfer, which would have led to the funds bouncing back. This 
wasnt possible though because Mr P terminated the call before TransferWise was able to 
explain the steps he could ask B to take in order to reject the transfer.
I can see that TransferWise emailed Mr P within minutes of the call disconnecting to offer 
guidance as to how he could ask B to reject the transfer. But theres no evidence to suggest 
he called TransferWise back to discuss that option further.
I recognise that Mr P was, understandably, distressed and upset that his funds had been 
returned to B. But I think, if TransferWise had been able to discuss with him how B could 
have rejected his transfer the outcome may have been different. And I think the loss Mr P 
subsequently incurred when B converted his funds from Euro to Sterling could have been 
mitigated or even avoided.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint I havent seen enough evidence to persuade 
me that TransferWise was at fault for Mr Ps funds being returned to B. So, for the reasons 
outlined above, Im not persuaded TransferWise has made an error in how it dealt with his 
transfer. Im satisfied it acted fairly in dealing with this complaint. So, my provisional decision 
is that Im not minded to uphold this complaint.In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional 
information they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our 
service's last word on the matter.
TransferWise responded to say it had no further evidence to provide and accepted 
my provisional decision. 
When Mr P responded he stated that sending money via TransferWise should have 
been easy, fast, low cost and fair. He explained that these are the principles on 
which TransferWise promotes its business model. And he said that his transfer failed 
on all principles.
Mr P also submitted that the TransferWise representative he discussed his transfer 
with was uneducated in their field and that, relying on advice from that individual, 
caused him detriment. He said the staff member he dealt with ought to have known 
that the conversion of funds from his Sterling to Euro account should have been 
instant. So, there should have been no need for the funds to have been sent 
anywhere.
Finally, Mr P stated he believed that TransferWise had acted negligently and he 
asked me to direct it to refund him fully for his loss and issue an apology.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And I've carefully considered Mr Ps response to my provisional decision. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr P but the points hes made havent changed my mind about the provisional 
outcome I reached in February 2021. Ill explain why.
As I explained in my provisional decision, it was clear from the evidence I assessed that Mr 
P intended to transfer the funds that had credited his TransferWise Sterling account from B 
to his Euro account. In view of that I carefully considered how the error that led to the funds 
being returned to B was made. And I explained why I didnt think TransferWise was 
responsible for what happened here.
I appreciate Mr P wanted to credit his Euro account. But I remain satisfied that he set up an 
online transfer to credit his account with B in error. And this is what caused his funds to be 
returned to B. TransferWise wasnt involved in setting up that transfer. And I cant fairly say 
its actions led to it departing from the business principles Mr P has brought to my attention.
The screenshots I considered, which showed the steps Mr P would have taken when setting 
up his transfer, still satisfy me that the information he would have seen before authorising 
the transfer of funds from his Sterling account was clearly presented. Its clear that hed have 
seen the receiving account details before authorising the transfer. And hed also have seen a 
message asking him to please make sure this is a EUR bank account.
Mr P has raised concerns about the competency of staff he spoke with when discussing his 
transfer with TransferWise. But when I listened to the call recordings TransferWise provided 
there was nothing to suggest the individuals Mr P discussed his transfer with were untrained 
or unsure of the transfer process. Ill explain why.
 
When Mr P contacted TransferWise over the telephone to query the whereabouts of his 
funds he was given clear guidance as to the pay-in options available to fund the transfer hed already set up. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, no guidance was given as to 
how Mr P should set up the payment instruction. And Mr P didnt ask TransferWise to check 
whether hed set up the transfer instruction correctly. During the call recordings I listened to, 
no questions were asked as to where the funds would be sent once theyd been transferred. 
While Mr P may disagree with me, I havent been able to find any evidence that shows 
TransferWise made an error here. It wasnt at fault for the funds being returned to B. And I 
cant fairly find that TransferWise could have done anything further to assist Mr P with his 
transfer. It took appropriate steps to offer help when it became aware that there was a 
problem with the payment thats the subject of this complaint. And, in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint, I remain satisfied that TransferWise acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr P has said in response to my provisional decision. 
But his comments havent persuaded me to depart from the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision. It follows that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman