DRN-1919445
The complaint
Mr R complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) wrongly told him 
he could sell his car and so he exceeded the permitted mileage.
What happened
Mr R took out a contract hire agreement on the 4 April 2017. The term of the agreement was 
for 24 months. Mr R was required to pay an initial rental of £3069.04 followed by monthly 
rentals of £341. The agreed mileage was 10,000 miles per year.
On 9 and 11 October 2018 MBFS incorrectly sent Mr R two settlement quotations after Mr R 
explained he wanted to sell the car. Under the terms of the agreement signed by Mr R he 
couldnt sell the car as he was leasing it and would not own it at the end of the agreement. 
Mr R said that he thought that based on these quotations he would be able to sell the car 
and so he travelled more than the mileage agreed as he didnt think he would have to pay 
excess mileage. Mr R handed back the car at the end of the agreement but doesnt think it is 
fair that he should pay the excess mileage charges.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. They didnt think that there was any evidence that 
Mr R was going to sell the car after the quotations were received and so they thought it was 
fair that he should pay the excess mileage charges. They thought that the incorrect 
information did cause him some inconvenience and so recommended that MBFS pay Mr R 
£100 to reflect this. MBFS agreed with the Investigator.  
Mr R didnt agree and said that he was going to sell the car and he wasnt happy with the 
assumption that he didnt try to sell the car after receiving the settlement quotes. He said he 
would provide further evidence but wanted an ombudsman to review his complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr R entered into the agreement it was made clear in the agreement that he would 
not own the car at the end of the agreement and so he was not able to sell it. The vehicle 
return standards were also set out in the agreement including the agreed mileage and the 
charges that would apply if the car was returned with excess mileage. Mr R signed that 
agreement to confirm he wanted to be bound by its terms.
In July 2018 Mr R contacted the business to complain that he had numerous problems with 
the car and wanted to hand it back early. On 18 July 2018 the business emailed Mr R and 
explained that Mr R could hand the car back and pay the remaining monthly rentals with a 
5% discount in the sum of £2452.64. Mr R was also told that he could sell, or part exchange 
the car and a settlement figure was provided in the sum of £29516.72 which was valid until 
31 July 2018.
On 6 October 2018 Mr R emailed the business to explain that he wanted an updated quote 
to sell the car. On the 9 October the business responded that this was £28,548.58 which 
was valid until 31 October 2018. Mr R queried this figure as he explained he had paid more 
towards the car. The emails sent to Mr R around this time are confusing and appear to 
suggest that he was able to sell the car at the end of the agreement. The emails also explain 
that as long as the money comes from an unconnected third party then a sale would be 
permitted. The emails do make clear that MBFS would have to be involved in a sale. I agree 
with the Investigator that this did cause Mr R some inconvenience, as he sent a number of 
emails about the issue. I think the business should pay Mr R £100 to reflect the trouble and 
upset caused.    
Mr R didnt clarify the position at this stage and then decided to hand the car back at the end 
of the agreement. I cant see that Mr R asked for a further settlement figure or tried to pursue 
a sale after the settlement figures had expired. Mr R said that he had evidence about 
potential sales and people who were interested in buying the car, but he hasnt provided it. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Mr R did anything about trying to sell the car privately 
before the end of the agreement.
In these circumstances I cant say that the reason Mr R travelled the extra miles was 
because he was planning to sell the car at the end of the agreement because of what he had 
been told by the business in October 2018. On the basis of the information I have seen I 
think it is more likely that Mr R decided to hand back the car as originally agreed. 
Mr R was aware of the excess mileage charges that would apply if he did this and so I cant 
say that the business has been unfair to charge for this.   
Putting things right
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should pay Mr R £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused by the incorrect emails sent in July and October 2018
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to pay Mr R £100 in full and final settlement of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman