DRN-2485499
The complaint
Miss L complains Santander UK Plc unfairly closed her basic bank account. She would like
Santander to reopen the account and compensate her for the upset and inconvenience she
was caused. Mr L is Miss Ls father. He was a secondary account holder, and he joins Miss
L in bringing this complaint.
  
What happened
 Miss L held a basic account with Santander. It is my understanding Mr L was added to the
account so he could access child benefit payments for one of Miss Ls children who lives
with him.
In 2019 Miss L deposited a cheque into her account. The cheque was a child benefit
payment issued by a department of government of a country outside the United Kingdom.
Santander reviewed the deposit, asked Miss L for proof of the origin of the funds, and
prevented the funds from being accessed.
Miss L told Santander what the payment was for. She provided the top part of another
cheque for another child benefit payment issued by the same source. But she was unable to
provide the same part for the cheque in question because the cashier in branch retained it
when the cheque was presented. She contacted the government department who issued the
cheque, but they said they wouldnt contact Santander on her behalf.
Santander wasnt satisfied by the evidence Miss L submitted and decided to close the
account. Miss L complained, but Santander rejected the brunt of her complaint, so she
brought it to our service. Santander did however offer £60 to make up for customer service
issues.
An investigator considered the complaint and upheld it in part. They found:
The payment was legitimate. The investigator contacted the government department 
who issued the cheque, who confirmed they had sent it. Santander ought to have 
taken similar action. It too would have then concluded the payment was genuine, and 
the matter would have been resolved. So, it should send the remaining balance to 
Miss S and pay her £100 for the inconvenience she was caused.
Santander was entitled to close Miss Ls account by giving Miss L notice under the 
account terms and conditions. Santander agreed to send Miss L the balance of her 
account and to pay £100. Miss L and Mr L said the compensation wasnt enough and 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Their complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision in August 2021. 
Here were my findings:
Santander can review activity on an account. It has important legal and regulatory 
obligations to meet, and it can take proportionate measures to ensure it complies 
with them. These measures might include blocking access to funds held in an 
account and asking for proof of where payments originated from. So, I dont find 
Santander were wrong to initially prevent access to the payment in Miss Ls account, 
or to ask her to evidence where the payment came from. After all, cheque fraud is a 
common problem banks like Santander face, which it must try to prevent.
The investigator contacted the foreign government department to enquire about 
whether it had sent Miss L the cheque she deposited to her account. The 
government department confirmed it had. So, it was clear what Miss L had told 
Santander was true. 
Santander says only our service could have obtained this information, and it had 
done what it could. But I disagree. I see no reason why Santander couldnt have 
contacted the relevant government department with Miss Ls consent in the same 
way our investigator did.
Santander must pay due regard to the interest of its customers and treat them fairly. 
So, this sometimes means it may need to do more for a particular customer given 
their circumstances than they would for another customer.
I do not consider Santander contacting the relevant government department would
have been unreasonable given what Miss L had said, and that the purpose behind
the payment was to provide for the care of one of her children. Miss L had explained
why she couldnt provide further proof. And, it ought to have been clear to Santander
that there was a clear path it could take to try to resolve the matter before taking a 
decision which risked detriment to both Miss L and one of her children.
Miss L held a basic bank account. Basic bank accounts can only be closed in very 
specific circumstances and those circumstances are governed by Reg 26(2) of the 
Payment Accounts Regulations 2015. This states a firm may only close a basic 
account when:
a) the consumer has knowingly used, or attempted to use, the payment account for
illegal purposes;
(b) there has been no transaction on the account for more than 24 consecutive 
months;
(c) the consumer provided incorrect information when applying for the account, and 
had the correct information been provided, the application would have been refused;
(d) the consumer is no longer legally resident in the European Union;
(e) the consumer has access to another payment account in the United Kingdom
which
(i) allows the consumer to make use of the services listed in regulation 19(1); and
(ii) was opened after the payment account with basic features;
(f) the credit institution considers that the consumers conduct in relation to the credit
institutions staff amounts to the commission of an offence under
(i) section 4, 4A or 5 of the Public Order Act 1986;(ii) the Protection from Harassment Act 1997;
(iii) section 38 of the Criminal Justice and Licensing (Scotland) Act 2010 (threatening
or abusive behaviour);
(iv) Article 9 of the Public Order (Northern Ireland) Order 1987 (use of words or
behaviour or display of written material);
(v) the Protection from Harassment (Northern Ireland) Order 1997.
Based on all the information before me, I dont find Santander can demonstrate to a 
proper and reasonable extent that any of the above conditions were met. 
I have listened carefully to the points Santander says demonstrate it complied with 
the above regulations. But I disagree. I dont find what it relied on enough to 
reasonably conclude Miss L knowingly used or attempted to use her account for 
illegal purposes. Neither do I find the information Santander holds demonstrates any 
other condition under Reg 26(2) was met.
Santander needed to take more care when deciding to close Miss Ls basic bank 
account. Frankly, it should not have decided to close the account. There are strict 
regulatory limitations on when a bank can close a basic account for a reason. And 
the terms of Santanders account cannot override those limitations to afford it a 
greater discretion to close basic accounts.
Santanders decision in effect deprived Miss L of a current account facility, which is
an essential part of everyday life. Im persuaded its decision likely had a significant
impact on her and her financial independence, which she should not have had to
experience.
Mr L may want more compensation than what I am recommending. But my role is not 
to punish or fine Santander for its error. Instead, my role it is to decide what is fair 
and reasonable compensation in order to put things right. I appreciate Mr L also lost 
the utility of the account. But I havent seen evidence to show he had no other 
account he could use for everyday banking, unlike Miss L. Neither do I find 
Santander discriminated against him.
Santander was reasonable in wanting to know where the payment originated, and its
action to initially restrict access to the account was understandable. This may have
caused Mr L offence. Certainly, being questioned by a bank about where funds
originate can be challenging. But this doesnt mean Santander shouldnt ask
questions of this kind or it shouldnt restrict an account. It could risk serious sanction
if it didnt. So, I am not awarding compensation to Mr L because of how Santander
made him feel.
Instead, I find the regulatory limitations on when a firm can close a basic account are
only relevant to Miss L and the impact it had on her. It is also my understanding that
Miss L is keen to resolve this matter without the need to go to court.
I recommended Santander do the following to put things right:
Reopen Miss Ls basic account or offer her a new basic account. This is subject to 
Miss L not already having a current account open in her name in the United 
Kingdom. And, it is also contingent on Miss L agreeing to hold a basic account with 
Santander.
Allow Miss L access to the funds it holds which represent the child benefit payment. It 
should add eight percent simple interest per annum on to this sum from the time the 
payment credited Miss Ls account to the time the funds become accessible to either 
her or Mr L.Pay Miss L £500 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience not having 
use of a basic bank account had on her. Santander says it finds this amount 
excessive. But I disagree. It is an appropriate sum to reflect the impact its decision to 
close Miss Ls only bank account likely had on her.
Mr L and Miss L accepted my provisional decision, but Santander did not. So, I have now 
decided to make a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Miss L and Mr Ls complaint for the same reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision. Those findings are repeated above, and form part of this decision.
I have considered carefully Santanders response to my provisional decision, but it has not 
changed my findings. I disagree its argument shows it could validly close the basic account. 
What it is relying is not persuasive evidence to show any of the requirements under Reg 
26(2) of the Payment Accounts Regulations 2015 were met. 
I also do not find what Santander has said regarding the knowledge Miss L is likely to have 
had at the time the basic account was applied for is established as fact - there are many 
reasons why someone can only open a basic account. 
Santander also failed to provide evidence to show Miss L was asked questions about what it 
is now suggesting she would have known when she applied for the account. But whether 
she did know or not, it is not at all evident that rejecting her application for a basic account 
would have been fair or reasonable on under the Payment Accounts Regulations 2015.
Instead, I find Santander unfairly closed Miss Ls account. It failed to take reasonable steps 
to verify whether what she was telling them about the payment was true. And had it taken 
these steps, it would have been assured the payment was genuine and it should not then 
have closed the account. Taking away Miss Ls only current account facility likely caused her 
considerable inconvenience over a prolonged period.
Putting things right
Santander needs to:
Reopen Miss Ls basic account or offer her a new basic account. This is subject to 
Miss L not already having a current account open in her name in the United 
Kingdom. And, it is also contingent on Miss L agreeing to hold a basic account with 
Santander.
Allow Miss L access to the funds it holds which represent the child benefit payment. It 
should add eight percent simple interest per annum on to this sum from the time the 
payment credited Miss Ls account to the time the funds become accessible to her.
Pay Miss L £500 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience not having 
use of a basic bank account had on her.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold this complaint and I direct Santander UK Plc to put things right 
according to the instructions I have given above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman