DRN-3969652
The complaint
Ms H complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited is responsible for mishandling a 
claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, first registered in 
2016.
Ms H had an Admiral policy to cover the car for the year from late September 2021. Any 
claim for damage (except a windscreen claim) was subject to a policy excess of £400.00.
Unfortunately in early August 2022, Ms H reported to Admiral that a car had hit the rear of 
her SUV, injuring her and damaging the SUV. The driver of the car said it was a courtesy car 
that he was driving for a garage.
In late September and early October 2022, Admiral repaired the SUV, while providing Ms H 
with a courtesy car. Miss H paid the excess of £400.00.
In October 2022, Ms H complained to Admiral that it wasnt doing enough to recover her 
excess from the insurers of the other driver or the garage. She also complained about 
telephone wating times.
By a final response dated late November 2022, Admiral partly upheld the complaint and said 
it would pay £50.00. 
Ms H brought her complaint to us without delay. She asked that we should investigate what 
Admiral was doing to recover her £400.00 excess.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Admiral had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Ms H disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Admiral are not doing all they can to obtain the insurance details of the vehicle that 
drove into the back of her car, in order to refund her excess of £400.00.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer may make an outlay, for example on paying to repair its policyholders vehicle. 
When it has made an outlay, its common practice for that insurer to treat the claim as an 
open claim or as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until it recovers its outlay in 
full, typically from a third partys insurer.
Most motor policies allow an insurer to decide how best to deal with an issue of liability 
involving a third party. Admirals policy terms included the following:
Defending or settling a claim 
We are entitled to: 
 conduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf
In my view, that meant that  on an issue of how best to deal with an issue of liability 
involving a third party  Admirals view would prevail over Ms Hs.
I consider that the accident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Ms H 
distress and inconvenience.
I consider that Admiral couldve been more pro-active. And there were times when Ms H had 
to wait on a telephone call.
I find that the claim meant that Ms H had to pay the excess. That was an uninsured loss. 
She might recover it from the third party if they were found liable. 
However, I dont consider that Admiral was under an obligation to Ms H to try to recover her 
excess. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to do any more in that respect. 
Overall, I conclude that Admiral was responsible for some shortcomings in its service. But 
that didnt cause Ms H a financial loss. Rather, it caused her some extra distress and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time for her. In particular, it caused her some frustrating 
waits on the telephone. However Im satisfied that Admirals payment of £50.00 was fair and 
reasonable compensation for this extra distress and inconvenience. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Admiral to pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman