DRN-3932285
The complaint
Mr F complains Think Money Limited (TML) blocked and then closed his account without 
explanation. 
Mr F says this has caused him trouble and upset, and to put things right he wants all his 
money returned. 
What happened
In October 2021, following its review, TML restricted Mr Fs account. Later in November, 
TML spoke to Mr F about his account activity. TML then wrote to Mr F and gave him notice 
his account would be closed in 7 days. 
TML say that several payments, after the restriction on the account was applied, were 
returned to source  that is to the remitting accounts. 
Mr F said he received payments of £7 and £55 from TML, but he thinks its holding onto 
much more. Unhappy with its actions, Mr F complained. In addition to the points above he 
also complained his online service was unavailable, and his card was blocked.  
TML sent Mr F its final response on the complaint. In summary, some of the key points it 
made were: 
- Funds in the account were made available to Mr F in December 2021 
- TML had made no error when restricting and reviewing Mr Fs account  it has 
regulatory and contractual obligations to meet 
- Over October 2021 and November 2021, two faster payments of £220 and £372.32 
were returned to the sending accounts 
- TML processed some faster payments made into Mr Fs account outside of its normal 
service levels - it is sorry about the delays  
- As Mr Fs account was under review, his online service was also restricted
- TML did not restrict Mr Fs card in October in November 2021, but some transactions 
were declined due to there being insufficient funds in the account at the time. So TML 
have not made an error here 
- For TMLs service falling short, it awarded Mr F £50 compensation
One of our adjudicators then looked into Mr Fs complaint. In summary they found: 
- TML was entitled to end its relationship with Mr F, and it wasnt required to give any 
reason. But TML didnt give sufficient notice of closure to Mr F
- Because of this Mr F experienced disruption in receiving his salary for several weeks, 
and this caused him to have to rearrange his financial arrangements. Mr F also had 
to borrow money to get by. Because of this TML should pay Mr F £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, in addition to the £50 its already paid 
- They could see Mr F was unable to retrieve £130.89 held in his account from 
October 2021, but this was made available to him in December 2021. Two payments 
of £220 and £372.32 were returned to the source accounts. And the account closed 
with a zero balance, so TML isnt holding onto any of Mr Fs funds 
TML did not agree with what our adjudicator said. In summary, and in broad terms. It argued 
that it had acted in line with the terms of the account. And its concerns taken together were 
enough to close the account with seven days notice. Our Investigator said TML should have 
given much more notice to Mr F, as its concerns, and evidence therein, did not meet the 
standards wed expect for closing the account sooner.
TML said it hadnt done anything wrong, and its concerns were enough to merit a seven-day 
closure. It also said that it had acted fairly in closing the account in this way, and previous 
decisions from this service were consistent with that.   
As TML didnt agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Regulated businesses in the UK, like TML, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means TML 
needs to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts. 
Its important to note that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from TML as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information TML has 
provided is information we consider should be kept confidential. Im also unaware of any 
obligations that I or TML are under to disclose the reasons to Mr F. 
But having seen the evidence from TML as to why it had concerns, Im satisfied it hasnt 
done anything wrong when restricting and reviewing Mr Fs account. I note it also asked 
Mr F questions about his activity, which I would expect it to do. 
Mr F has complained about not having access to his online app and banking during this 
period. But given the account was restricted, I dont think TML have acted improperly here. 
After all any access to online methods would mean the account wasnt restricted. 
TML is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before a TML closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account. So I need to decide if TML applied its terms fairly here. 
The terms and conditions of the account, which TML and Mr F had to comply with, say that it 
could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.Ive carefully considered TMLs evidence, reasons and arguments for why it thinks it has 
applied its terms fairly by giving Mr F less than two months notice. But having done this, I 
dont agree. For the reasons Ive given above, I cant give too much detail about that here, 
but in broad terms Im not persuaded on balance the reasons given, even taken together, 
were enough to warrant a seven-day closure. So I think TML should have given Mr F two 
months notice. 
This would mean Mr F had more time to rearrange his financial circumstances. So this 
matter caused him avoidable inconvenience and distress.  
Mr F says he had to borrow money whilst his account was restricted, but Ive said TML acted 
fairly in restricting the account. But I do think it caused delays, as it has admitted. So this is 
something Ill take into account when reaching what I think is a fair compensation award. 
TML have sent me technical information which shows Mr Fs debit card during the period he 
has complained about was declined because of insufficient funds. So Im satisfied they didnt 
do anything wrong here  its also worth noting that a card is typically suspended in most 
cases where the source account has been restricted. Though that doesnt appear to be the 
case here. 
TML have given me information which it shows most of the payments into Mr Fs account 
were returned to source  the remitters. Mr F hasnt explicitly complained about this, so I 
asked one of our Investigators to find out if he had been able to recover his funds. Mr F, 
despite several follow ups hasnt responded.
I dont think TMLs concerns were such that these payments ought to have been returned to 
source. But As Mr F hasnt complained about this nor said hes lost out; Im unable to reach 
a finding on this point. 
From the technical information and statements sent to me, Im satisfied any funds held by 
TML in Mr Fs account have been returned to him. 
TML has apologised for delays in processing inbound faster payments to Mr Fs accounts. 
And, for its delays overall awarded Mr F £50, which appears to have been paid to him when 
the account was closed.  
So given what Ive said above about the distress and inconvenience TMLs actions have had 
on Mr F, and given hes already been paid £50, I award a further £100 as compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. I now direct Think Money Limited to 
pay Mr F £100 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman