DRN-4037097
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) has refused to refund the money he has lost 
following him falling victim to a scam.
Mr C is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr C 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, in early 2021 Mr C was interested in cryptocurrency investment and after 
researching online came across a business called Digital Currency Market (X). Mr C made 
several payments into the investment with X via legitimate cryptocurrency platforms. Mr C 
made these payments via another of his accounts not held at Monzo).
In April 2021 Mr C wanted to make a withdrawal from the investment, but when he attempted 
to, he was told he would have to make further payments first and he was unable to make 
any withdrawals.
In late April 2021 Mr C was contacted by his representative at X. I will call this person Y. Y 
explained that he was moving the portfolio to a different platform (Global solutions) to 
recover Mr Cs funds. Mr C was convinced Y was trying to help.
Y asked Mr C to open an account with Monzo as it would be easier to purchase 
cryptocurrency using the Monzo account. Mr C was also asked to open a Jaxx Wallet to 
transfer the crypto to. Mr C agreed.
Mr C was told he would have to transfer a large amount of Bitcoin into the Jaxx Wallet to 
unlock the funds he had previously invested. Mr C agreed but later found the Jaxx Wallet 
had been emptied and he has not been able to recover the any of the funds.
Mr C made the following payments from his account with Monzo into the scam via different 
cryptocurrency exchanges:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
20 January 2022 Coinbase £20 Transfer
20 January 2022 Coinbase £20 Payment in 
21 January 2022 Simplex-Elastum £40 Transfer
24 January 2022 Paybis_Simplex £2,999 Debit Card
24 January 2022 Paybis_Simplex £40 Debit Card
24 January 2022 Paybis_Simplex £2,998 Debit Card
24 January 2022 Paybis_Simplex £2,997 Debit Card
24 January 2022 Paybis_Simplex £1,001 Debit Card
25 January 2022 Paybis_Simplex £2,999 Debit Card
25 January 2022 Paybis_Simplex £2,501 Debit Card
25 January 2022 Paybis_Simplex £2,499 Debit Card
25 January 2022 Paybis_Simplex £2,001 Debit Card
26 January 2022 Paybis_Simplex £1,499 Debit Card
26 January 2022 Paybis_Simplex £1,501 Debit Card
28 January 2022 Essential Tokens Ltd £10,000 Transfer
31 January 2022 Essential Tokens Ltd £10.000 Transfer
Our Investigator considered Mr Cs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr C 
disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr C has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mr C and Monzo sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether 
Monzo should refund the money Mr C lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr C made
Monzo was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr C made via his debit card 
in relation to this scam to the cryptocurrency exchanges listed above.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr C was dealing with the scammer, which was the business that instigated the scam. But 
Mr C didnt make the debit card payments to the scammer directly, he paid separate 
cryptocurrency exchanges. This is important because Monzo was only able to process 
chargeback claims against the merchants he paid, not another party.
The service provided by the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been to convert or 
facilitate conversion of Mr Cs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, they provided the 
service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mr C paid. As the cryptocurrency 
exchanges Mr C made payments to provided the services to Mr C a chargeback attempt 
would likely fail.
Mr C also made payments via the method of transfer. I have considered if Mr C should have 
received a refund under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. But the CRM 
code only applies when domestic payments (as the result of a scam) are sent to another 
person. Here Mr C sent the payments to an account held in his own name and the scam 
occurred when he moved his purchased crypto from that account to the scammer. Im 
satisfied the CRM Code wouldnt apply in this scenario.
Considering the above I am satisfied that Monzo was unable to recover the funds Mr C sent 
from his Monzo account.Should Monzo have reasonably prevented the payments Mr C made?
Mr C has accepted he authorised the payments that were made from his account with 
Monzo, albeit on Ys instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr C is responsible. 
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Monzo should have stepped in when Mr C was making the 
payments from his account, and if it had stepped in whether it would have been able to 
prevent the scam from taking place.
Although Mr C had opened a new account with Monzo so there was no history for Monzo to 
base irregular activity on I think several large payments on the same day to a cryptocurrency 
exchange should have triggered Monzos fraud prevention system prompting Monzo to step 
in and have a meaningful conversation with Mr C about what the payments were for. 
However, I dont think this would have made a difference. When Mr C made payments from 
his account with another bank in April 2021 that bank did step in and question Mr C about 
the payments he was making, and during this call he did not give full honest answers. Mr C 
said that no one else had been involved in the investment and that he had researched the 
investment himself.
I dont have enough to say Mr C would have given more honest answers to Monzo had it 
stepped in and had a similar conversation with him about the payments he was making from 
his Monzo account, and I think its unlikely Monzo would have uncovered the scam that was 
taking place.
So, even though I think Monzo should have had concerns about the payments Mr C was 
making I dont think it missed an opportunity to prevent the scam and it is therefore not 
responsible for Mr Cs loss.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman