DRN-3910139
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Al Rayan Bank PLC (Al Rayan) told him he had an outstanding balance 
on his Home Purchase Plan (HPP) following its redemption.
What happened
Mr A got a new job abroad and decided to let his home while he was away. Mr A 
approached Al Rayan on 9 March 2022 to request a redemption statement, so he could 
move to a lender that could offer him a buy-to-let mortgage. Mr A says he was told if he paid 
the full amount on the redemption statement before 1 March 2022 then he wouldnt need to 
make his next contractual monthly payment (CMP) on 1 March 2022. Mr A says, based on 
this information, he phoned Al Rayan to cancel his direct debit on 25 February 2022 as his 
completion date was set for 28 February 2022. 
On 3 March 2022, Al Rayan contacted Mr A to say he had an outstanding balance of £1,140 
on his HPP. And that as he had missed his payment, the redemption was not complete. So, 
Mr A would like Al Rayan to refund the final CMP to acknowledge the stress and 
inconvenience the misinformation caused him at what was already a difficult time, moving 
his family abroad and finding tenants for his old home. 
Al Rayan looked into Mr As concerns and agreed the call handler he spoke to on 
9 March 2022 gave him incorrect information which led him to believe the redemption 
statement showed the full and final figure required to settle the account, so long as it was 
redeemed before 1 March 2022. Al Rayan explained the redemption statement was actually 
produced on the basis the account would be redeemed on 2 March 2022. Al Rayan offered 
Mr A £50 in compensation but confirmed Mr A still needed to make the payment as his 
account was in arrears and couldnt be closed. 
As Mr A remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into what happened and said Al Rayan should pay Mr A an additional £50 in compensation. 
Al Rayan agreed, but Mr A didnt accept, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mr As complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why.
Al Rayan has accepted Mr A was given misinformation over the phone on 25 February 2022. 
This is what led Mr A to believe the figure stated on his redemption statement was the full 
sum he would be required to pay, excluding the direct debit due to be taken on 
1 March 2022. So, I think it was fair for Al Rayan to uphold Mr As complaint and offer him 
some compensation. I now need to decide whether I think the amount Al Rayan has offered 
is fair in the circumstances, bearing in mind Mr A thinks it should waive his final CMP. 
Ive thought about what Mr As asked for but I dont think it would be reasonable to ask 
Al Rayan to waive the outstanding balance on his account. I appreciate finding out his 
account wasnt closed when he thought it was would have caused Mr A unnecessary stress. 
Particularly considering, he was starting a new job, moving his family to a new country, and 
making arrangements to let his home all at once. Its clear Mr A would have had a lot of 
things to sort out and this gave him an additional problem that was avoidable. That said, the 
CMP outstanding on Mr As account is legitimate debt of his and I dont think the 
misunderstanding is significant enough to warrant compensation of over £1,000. 
I say this because the ombudsman service is an informal dispute resolution service, and our 
awards are often lower than other more formal services, such as the courts. We recommend 
awards to recognise the impact a business mistake has had on a customer if its warranted, 
but our awards arent designed to punish businesses  thats the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
While Ive acknowledged Mr As personal circumstances above, I also need to think about 
the extent of Al Rayans error and how quickly it was resolved. The error was simply a 
misunderstanding during a phone call. The call handlers comments about the redemption 
figure showing the full amount required to settle the account were based on a settlement 
date of 2 March 2022  after the direct debit would already have been deducted. And the 
redemption statement confirmed the following:
Please note that the total amount outstanding is calculated on the basis that your next 
monthly HPPBTL payment will be paid by the date due. As such this monthly payment has 
been deducted from the total amount outstanding.
So, I think Mr A had information that highlighted there was a discrepancy, but I cant see he 
queried it further. And although Mr A phoned Al Rayan again on 25 February 2022 to cancel 
the direct debit, having listened to the call, I dont think the call handler had enough 
information to correct the misunderstanding. The call was brief  around three minutes long. 
And the call handler did imply that it would be better to leave the direct debit in place so 
adjustments could be made if necessary. But as Mr A insisted it should be cancelled to 
ensure he didnt overpay, the call handler informed him he could cancel the direct debit 
online himself for his own peace of mind. If Mr A hadnt done this, the final payment could 
have been taken and his account would now be closed. 
Al Rayan wrote to Mr A to inform him hed missed a payment, so he was informed of the 
shortfall quickly. And following his complaint, Al Rayan investigated Mr As concerns and 
explained what had gone wrong within around two weeks of receiving the complaint. 
While I dont doubt Mr A found the whole thing very stressful, I dont think Al Rayan is 
responsible for all of the stress Mr A says he was experiencing at the time. Its more likely 
than not some of his stress was due to the lifechanging events he was sorting out at the 
same time. Al Rayan mitigated the impact of the misinformation it gave by updating Mr A as 
soon as possible and apologising for its part in the confusion caused. So, I agree with our 
investigator that an award of £100 is reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr A should contact Al Rayan to arrange making the payment now if he hasnt already.
Putting things right
Al Rayan Bank PLC should:
Pay Mr A £100 for the stress and inconvenience caused.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman