DRN-1137426
 
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy about the level of compensation offered by Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) following problems and delays to the repair of Mrs F home following her claim on her 
building insurance policy. Mrs F said this adversely affected her mental health.
What happened
Mrs F has already made a complaint about delays and poor service by Aviva and received 
£200 in compensation for this is 2018. She made a further complaint in April 2019 and it is 
this that I have considered here. 
Mrs Fs is elderly and lives alone. Her flat suffered serious water damage following a leak 
from a toilet cistern on an upper floor. Mrs Fs claim under her home insurance policy with 
Aviva was accepted. 
At a site meeting Avivas contractor advised there was significant damage across several 
rooms including the kitchen, bathroom and laundry room. Two ceilings had already partially 
collapsed. Specialist drying out was needed before repairs could begin.
Mrs F was due to go on holiday and agreed that contractors could start work whilst she was 
away. A key safe was fitted to facilitate this. 
Mrs F returned from holiday and was alarmed at the condition of her home. Ceilings, floor 
coverings and various fixtures and fittings had been stripped out. Some of which seemed 
excessive to her and the drying out process had not been started.
Mrs F said items such as curtains and towels were disposed of by the contractors of as 
being beyond economic repair (BER). She said other items had been damaged or hadnt 
been moved or covered and had become soiled as a result. Some items had been 
misplaced in boxing up and Mrs F couldnt locate them.
Some items were of sentimental value and couldnt be adequately replaced. Mrs F was 
upset they had been disposed of without her agreement.
Mrs F was particularly upset about the laundry room as this had sentimental value to her. 
She thought some of the strip out unnecessary. Mrs F said a builder she had used 
previously agreed with her. Mrs F was concerned that fixtures and fittings had been 
damaged in the strip out rather than through water damage.
Mrs F became concerned at the rate of progress saying she had difficulty living in her home 
after the strip out. There were no sinks in the bathrooms and lights were hanging from joists 
and things stacked in the way. She said this was making her anxious and she saw her 
doctor. 
Her doctor wrote a letter for her and Aviva agreed to, and promptly arranged, alternative 
accommodation. Mrs F felt this was too far from her home and public transport. Her home was in a habitable condition with running water, functioning kitchen and toilets, but Aviva 
paid for 42 days alternative accommodation from 23 May 2018. 
Mrs F was regularly in contact with Aviva and the contractors about what was happening. 
Mrs F was concerned about finding matching or similar replacements to bathroom fittings, 
tiles and cabinet doors. Mrs F said she had lost confidence in Avivas contractors.
Avivas file shows that at the same time the contractors were reluctant to continue with the 
job. They had concerns about Mrs F, including that she had memory problems. 
The contractors said she had accused them of being cowboy builders who had caused her 
ceiling to collapse. The initial claim report notes that two ceilings had already collapsed. The 
drying out contractor also reported that Mrs F had accused their workers of stealing and 
going through her contents behind her back. 
In addition to providing the alternative accommodation, Aviva tried to appoint an independent 
surveyor to act for Mrs F but none were interested because of the relatively small size of the 
job. Aviva then suggested that she had a friend or family member with her when visiting her 
home. 
Mrs F decided she did not want Avivas contractors to continue with the work and wanted to 
appoint her own builder. As their contractors didnt want to continue Aviva agreed and Mrs 
Fs builder took over at the end of June and completed the repairs which Aviva paid for. 
Aviva also paid for the replacement, cleaning and repair of damaged or disposed of items.  
Mrs F says the problems relating to the claim caused her anxiety and she underwent a 
course of Talking Therapy in July 2018. 
Aviva had looked into Mrs Fs previous complaints. They accepted there had been a delay of 
two weeks and paid Mrs F £200 in compensation for this. 
Mrs F says the anxiety caused by the problems continued and she was prescribed a course 
of antidepressants in December 2018.
Mrs F complained to Aviva again in March 2019 saying they hadnt compensated her 
adequately following her first complaint. 
In this second complaint she mentioned food and laundry costs incurred whilst she was in 
the bed and breakfast. Aviva accepted her complaint about this and offered Mrs F £700 to 
cover these costs. Mrs F accepted this.
Mrs F had also complained that due to the: 
the severe inconvenience and stress caused and the effect on my health I feel I am 
entitled to compensation of the order of £5,000.
Mrs F provided some of her medical information, this included references that she had 
previously suffered with depression and other mental health conditions. 
Aviva replied that they would need to see specific medical evidence from her doctor that any 
medical condition and treatment was a direct result of the claim. They said the existing 
information didnt do this. So they rejected this aspect of the complaint. Mrs F referred her complaint to our service and our case officer investigated. She thought 
the £700 compensation for Mrs Fs expenses was fair and agreed with Aviva, that more 
medical evidence was needed in relation to the mental health issue. 
In June Mrs Fs doctor wrote a letter which said:
At the time she had been dealing with a trauma around the flooding of her flat in April 
2018 .
There are many things that are a factor as to exacerbating depression and anxiety. 
The trigger may well have been dealing with the stress associated with the flood and 
the frustration of dealing with the builders.
Our investigators view was that this suggested the flood was the main cause of the decline 
in Mrs Fs mental health rather than Avivas handling of the claim. So, she did not uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs F does not agree with our investigators view and the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding the 
complaint.
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mrs F and dont doubt she was very upset 
about what happened to her home, so I will explain why I have come to this decision. 
Mrs Fs second complaint is in two parts: first, about some expenses she incurred during the 
claim. Aviva has upheld this and compensated her. Second, about the damage to her mental 
health caused by what she says are failings by Aviva during the claim.  
To decide about her current complaint I need to consider what happened during the claim.  
I understand that Mrs F was very upset at the damage to her home and her possessions. 
Unfortunately with escape of water claims some degree of distress is inevitable and the 
drying out and repairs usually take several months to complete. Aviva wasnt to blame for 
the original water damage but will be responsible for much of what happens during the claim 
process. So I need to consider whether it has acted fairly and reasonably as well as within 
the terms of the policy of insurance in dealing with Mrs F.  
I think there are two aspects here: first, the extent of the work undertaken and second, lack 
of care of possessions during the work. 
The Work Undertaken
When Mrs F replied to Avivas rejection of her second claim in her email of 1 May 2019 she 
said:
Making a claim is NOT an inconvenience, but the fact that the builders stripped out a 
bathroom and laundry room, because a little water had come down is.Mrs F clearly feels more work was done than was necessary and work was done that she 
should have been asked to agree before it was done. The work in the laundry room 
particularly upset Mrs F for sentimental reasons. 
I have looked at Avivas records of the claim and photographs taken by both Avivas 
contractors and by Mrs F. They show there was a lot of damage and there was probably 
quite a lot of the damage not immediately apparent. 
When a property is damaged by water it needs to be properly dried out before repairs can be 
carried out or those repairs will fail or damp problems will arise in the future. This might 
require apparently undamaged fixtures and fittings to be removed to achieve this and 
sometimes these may be damaged in doing so. 
A relatively small amount of visible damage to a ceiling or a wall might require a much larger 
area around it to be replaced to make a good repair. It is also not always possible to match 
decorations or fixtures and fittings to what was there before.
Avivas records show a joint site visit on 2 May 2018. This was just before Mrs F went on 
holiday and she agreed works could start whilst she was away. I think it is likely that the 
potential scope of the works would have been discussed at this meeting.
I also note that further strip out works of contaminated plaster in the utility/laundry room were 
recommended by the specialist contractor to assist drying on 2 June and it was suggested 
that Mrs F be present to agree BER items. This suggests the contractors did as little 
stripping out as they considered necessary before this.
Aviva would have no interest in paying for unnecessary work or replacements and will 
monitor its contractors to ensure that this is minimised. 
Aviva have already paid Mrs F £200 in compensation for delays during the earlier work and I 
havent seen evidence to show that Avivas contractors have done work that was 
unnecessary. Whilst I appreciate how upset Mrs F was about the extent of the work needed, 
Aviva was not responsible for this. 
Lack of Care of Possessions
Mrs F was also upset by contractors not taking good care of her possessions, with damage 
to ornaments and clothing. She has provided photographs of damaged items and Aviva 
made good and cleaned, repaired or replaced these as far as it could. So there is no dispute 
that items were damaged during the work. 
I understand this would have been upsetting for Mrs F. This made Mrs Fs experience worse 
than it should have been and I agree it caused her some upset but Aviva did what it could to 
replace and repair the items. 
Overall Position 
Reflecting Mrs Fs age and potential vulnerability regarding her anxiety I think Aviva did more 
than it was required to do under the terms of the policy. They provided the alternative 
accommodation and have paid her a further £700 to cover food and laundry costs. I think 
this is fair and reasonable and wont be asking them to do any more here.  
Damage to Mrs Fs Mental HealthI wont go into any more detail about Mrs F medical information as Im not qualified to 
comment on her mental health.
I can consider whether Aviva are being reasonable in their request for conclusive medical 
evidence that Mrs Fs mental health has worsened as a result of issues with the claim. And, I 
dont think this is unreasonable. Aviva says that what has been provided doesnt evidence 
that it has and I agree with this also. 
People do cope with things differently and what is very stressful for one person is only mildly 
annoying to another. As I dont think Aviva did more work than necessary and the delay and 
other issues were relatively minor I dont consider these resulted in severe inconvenience to 
Mrs F. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman