DRN-4008896
The complaint
Miss E says TM Advances Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss E took out a 40-month instalment loan from TM Advances on in May 2021. It was
for £3,000 and the monthly repayments were £249. The total repayable was £9,960. Miss E 
now has a debt management plan in place and the loan is being repaid through this vehicle.
Miss E says she was taking out this loan to repay other loans and she had to keep doing 
that. She now suffers from anxiety as a result of her financial difficulties.
Our adjudicator found that the loan should not have been given. She said TM Advances
carried out proportionate checks, but from the information it gathered it should have seen 
that it was likely this loan would not be sustainably affordable for Miss E.
TM Advances did not provide any comments in response to this assessment so the 
complaint was passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when TM Advances lent to Miss E required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TM Advances had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Miss E. In other words, it wasnt enough for TM Advances to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss E.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TM Advances did what it needed to before
agreeing to lend to Miss E. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following
questions:
- did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks when
assessing Miss Es loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay
the loan in a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did TM Advances make a fair lending decision?
- did TM Advances act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see TM Advances asked for certain information from Miss E before it approved the 
loan. It asked for details of her income and living expenses. And it checked her salary using 
an independent verification service. It also checked her credit file to understand her existing 
monthly credit commitments and credit history. It asked what the loan was for - it was to 
repay two payday loans and for her wedding. From these checks combined TM Advances 
concluded the loan was affordable for Miss E.
Im satisfied the checks were proportionate. But, on balance, I dont think that TM Advances
made a fair lending decision. In this case I dont think TM Advances has evidenced that it 
made a borrower-focused assessment, and I think ought to have realised it was unlikely 
Miss E would be able to repay her loan sustainably  even if it seemed affordable on a 
pounds and pence basis. And this was what TM Advances needed to check to meet its 
regulatory obligations.
Ill explain why this is my finding. TM Advances submission shows it understood Miss E had
unsecured debt of £10,129 and 9 active accounts. It calculated that she would be spending 
around £780 a month to sustainably repay her existing credit (not including the two loans 
she was using this loan to settle). This was already a significant portion of her income of 
£2,683. By giving its loan TM Advances put Miss E in the position where shed need to 
spend around 40% of her income on her unsecured credit commitments. I think it ought to 
have realized there was a high risk this would not be sustainable. I note she went on to have 
repayment problems only two months into the term of the loan. 
Whilst Miss E was taking out the loan to repay two high-cost short-term loans that she had, 
this only amounted to clearing around £1,100 of her total unsecured debt. I think TM 
Advances ought reasonably to have been aware from the information it had gathered about 
Miss Es outstanding debt that the consolidation of these most recent payday loans alone 
wasnt likely to help Miss E make sufficient inroads into her existing debt for it to be certain 
that she wouldnt go on to have further financial difficulties.
Whilst its loan would reduce her monthly repayments in the near term - and so TM Advances
might argue it was a more affordable solution that her existing short-term borrowings - overthe longer term it was significantly increasing her overall indebtedness. Even after settling 
the two high-cost short-term loans I think her finances were still under pressure  she had 
three credit cards over or very close to their limit, in addition to two other loans. 
For the reasons set out above, I think TM Advances ought reasonably to have realised that
there was a risk Miss E would be unable to sustainably repay her loan over the 40-month 
loan term. It follows I think TM Advances was wrong to give the loan to Miss E.
I havent found any evidence that TM Advances acted unfairly or unreasonably towards  
Miss E in some other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Miss E to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments     
Miss E made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Es loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TM Advances should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Miss Es loan account results in an outstanding balance remaining on 
her account TM Advances must work with her and the administrator of her debt 
management plan to rework her repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Es credit file in relation to the
loan once she has repaid the capital.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to deduct tax from this interest. TM Advances
should give Miss E a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Es complaint. TM Advances Limited must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman