DRN-1924875
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) commenced possession 
proceedings against him when he got into arrears with his mortgage payments and applied 
the costs it incurred as a result of the proceedings to his mortgage account.
What happened
Mr B has a mortgage with Halifax. In March 2019 he was in arrears with the payments he 
should have been making to Halifax and it instructed its solicitors to start court proceedings 
for possession of Mr Bs property. A court hearing took place in June 2019 by which time 
Mr B had made an offer to make additional monthly payments to reduce the arrears, which 
Halifax had accepted. The judge adjourned the proceedings on condition that Mr B 
continued to pay the monthly instalments plus the additional payments.
Mr B complained to Halifax. He said it shouldnt have commenced proceedings when it did. 
He also said Halifaxs solicitor had incorrectly asked the judge to grant a possession order at 
the hearing and it shouldnt have applied the costs of the proceedings to his account.
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint and he referred it to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They didnt think Halifax acted unfairly by 
beginning legal proceedings and that the terms and conditions of the mortgage entitled it to 
recover any costs it incurred as a result.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators recommendation. In particular, he says Halifax had 
admitted it shouldnt have charged a court fee of £325 to his account because the 
proceedings were adjourned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax had an obligation to treat Mr B fairly and sympathetically when he got into arrears 
with his mortgage payments, especially as Mr B suffers from long-term health issues. But 
this doesnt mean Halifax couldnt bring possession proceedings against him if this action 
was justified by the arrears situation. Mr B would have known, when he took out the 
mortgage, that his home would be at risk if he didnt keep up his mortgage payments.
At the time the possession proceedings were commenced, Mr Bs mortgage had been in 
arrears for more than eighteen months. Although hed reduced the arrears from when they 
were at their highest, they still amounted to more than three monthly instalments. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Halifax to decide it couldnt allow the 
situation to continue and to commence proceedings. Im satisfied Halifax took Mr Bs health 
problems into account when it made this decision.
After the proceedings had started but prior to the hearing Mr B made an offer to Halifax to 
make monthly payments to reduce the arrears and Halifax accepted his offer. Halifaxs 
solicitors wrote to Mr B to confirm acceptance of the offer but said the court hearing would 
still go ahead and they would ask the court to make a suspended possession order. This is a 
common type of court order in these circumstances and I cant say it wasnt reasonable for 
Halifaxs solicitors to request it even though the judge decided not to grant it.
Under the terms and conditions of the mortgage Mr B has to pay the costs incurred by 
Halifax in taking legal action against him. Im therefore satisfied it was reasonable for Halifax 
to apply the costs it incurred to Mr Bs mortgage account.
Ive considered Mr Bs comment that Halifax admitted it shouldnt have charged him the 
court fee of £325 because the proceedings were adjourned. I think Mr B is referring to the 
letter Halifax sent him in response to his complaint in which it said:
Following our conversation, you mentioned you have incurred court fee charges of £325.00, 
however, as the case was adjourned this should not be charged.
Ive listened to a recording of Mr Bs conversation with Halifax when he raised the issue of 
whether the court fee should have been charged to him. Im satisfied the above extract from 
Halifaxs letter is intended to set out Mr Bs complaint and isnt an admission that what he 
said was correct. I think the letter could have been clearer, but I think its reasonably 
apparent from the recording and the letter when considered together, that Halifax hadnt 
admitted it shouldnt have applied the court fee to Mr Bs account. The court fee was 
incurred by Halifax in connection with the proceedings and is, therefore, payable by Mr B 
under the mortgage terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. I make no 
award against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Charles Bacon
Ombudsman