DRN-3143237
The complaint
Miss O has complained about what happened when her hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen Finance (VWFS) came 
to an end. 
What happened
Miss O acquired a used car under a three-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS in 
May 2017. The car cost around £18,000 and had covered 6,145 miles. There was a 
maximum permitted mileage of 30,145 meaning Miss O was able to cover 8,000 miles per 
year without charge. If she were to go over that, the agreement says shed have to pay 8.4p 
per mile. 
It looks like Miss O made some enquiries regarding a short-term extension in April 2020, but 
this was declined later on in the month by VWFS because the agreement was near its end. 
Miss O spoke to VWFS the following month and asked to hand back the car. Shed also 
received a letter saying she owed around £11,500 towards the balloon payment and that she 
was in arrears. Miss O says she was going through a house move at the time and this was 
impacting things. VWFSs notes indicate it told Miss O things may take a little longer to 
resolve due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The notes also say the arrears for the 
balloon would be cleared down when the return process was actioned. 
VWFS notes also indicate in June 2020 that Miss O discussed refinancing the balloon 
payment but she decided to continue with the return option. She also raised her concerns 
about the impact of having the balloon payment on her credit file. 
The car was picked up in July 2020 with mileage of 41,980. And VWFS sent Miss O an 
invoice for excess mileage charges totalling £994.14 the following month. 
Miss O was unhappy with this. She complained to VWFS and asked it to pay her to cover 
storage costs for keeping the car longer than she should have. And she also complained 
about the returns process. VWFS declined to pay Miss O storage costs. But it agreed she 
shouldve been offered a short-term extension earlier on and paid her £200 compensation. 
Miss O still wasnt happy she was being asked to pay the excess mileage charge. She thinks 
VWFS took too long to ask for it and wanted it written off. VWFS looked into things again 
and offered to reduce the charge by 25%, meaning Miss O was left owing £795.31.
Miss O brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator looked 
into things but thought VWFS had done enough to put things right. He acknowledged there 
were delays to the car being collected but said VWFS and its collection agents would have 
been impacted by Covid-19 and government guidelines at the time. He said Miss O had the 
car longer than expected so she was still able to use it. He did think, however, that VWFS 
shouldnt have recorded the balloon payment as being due when Miss O had asked to return 
the car. Our investigator thought the £200 compensation was fair. He also thought the 
charge for excess mileage was fair too as Miss O had covered more miles than was 
permitted under the agreement. 
Miss O didnt agree. She said it was not fair that VWFS declined her request to extend the 
agreement but then left the car in her care. Had anything happened to the car she wouldve 
been responsible. And having only one parking space at the property meant she couldnt get 
another car. Miss O also said the mileage calculations should include the extra 66 days she 
had to keep the car after the contract came to an end as any damage or mileage added for 
that period would be her responsibility. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O acquired the car under a regulated hire purchase agreement and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Firstly, I want to say Im sorry to hear Covid-19 has negatively impacted Miss O during the 
course of this complaint. It cant have been easy and I appreciate the time its taken her to 
bring this complaint to our service.
I agree VWFS could have offered more support when Miss O contacted it in April 2020. It 
looks like it took a few weeks for VWFS to respond to Miss Os email, and when it did, it said 
it was too close to the end of the term to offer an extension. So her request was declined a 
few days before the end of the contract. A result of Miss O this meant the balloon payment 
became due on 3 May 2020. She was then contacted on 14 May 2020 informing her and 
telling her she was in arrears. So Id imagine she wouldve been very concerned to have 
received the letter. 
I cant see that Miss O managed to speak to VWFS after her extension request was declined 
and before she asked to hand the car back a few weeks later. But shes said she made 
many unsuccessful attempts to speak to VWFS by the phone. And given the government 
had imposed a nationwide lockdown on 23 March 2020 it wouldnt be unusual for customers 
to have trouble contacting VWFS because it would have had to adapt the way it worked. So 
Ive taken that into account. 
VWFS has acknowledged things went wrong. And it offered its apologies and £200 
compensation. So Ive thought about whether this is fair. On the one hand VWFSs response 
times and ability to answer calls would have likely been impacted by Covid-19, as Ive said 
above. And as it didnt know what Miss O wanted to do after it had declined the extension, 
the balloon payment naturally fell due. But on the other hand, it sounds like Miss O was 
having difficulty speaking to VWFS. She reached out for help while there was still around a 
month left on the agreement. She says she was also going through a house move at the 
time. And things got delayed due to the balloon payment showing on her credit file. So I can 
understand why shes unhappy.
It looks like VWFS told Miss O the balloon payment would be cleared down when the car 
was returned. I cant see Miss O let VWFS know about her house move initially. I can 
imagine looking to move to a new house during lockdown was already a stressful time but 
its not clear that VWFS were put on notice to enable it to offer something else sooner to 
help Miss O, nor that it has directly led to financial losses. But I agree it wouldve been better 
for Miss O had the balloon payment not been shown as arrears.  Miss O has mentioned charging VWFS storage costs for having to keep the car. And also 
that she had to keep the car in her care until it was picked up. I appreciate Miss O may have 
had only one space on the drive. But this hasnt led to a financial loss shes incurred so I 
dont find that VWFS needs to pay her storage costs. Similarly, I dont think it would be fair to 
ask VWFS to compensate Miss O for something that may have happened, but ultimately 
didnt. 
VWFS eventually picked up the car in early July 2020. And it looks like there was a few 
weeks of discussions with Miss O about her keeping it prior to this. So, on the whole, given 
the background of Covid-19, and the other discussions that were taking place, I dont find the 
length of time it took VWFS to collect the car unreasonable. 
I think, in all the circumstances, and based on the evidence provided, VWFS response 
concerning what happened up to the collection was broadly fair and reasonable. And I think 
the compensation it paid Miss O is reflective of what went wrong. So Im not going to direct it 
to do anything else with regards to the collection. 
Ive next thought about the excess mileage charge Miss O says shes unhappy about. It 
looks like Miss O gave the car back with nearly 12,000 excess miles on it. And taking into 
account what the agreement says, I think VWFS didnt act unfairly by asking her to pay 
£994.14. Its been calculated correctly. I also dont think the time it took to notify Miss O what 
was owed was unreasonable either. It was within a few weeks of the car having been picked 
up, which is what Id expect. 
Miss O has asked about increasing her mileage limit as a result of her having the car for a 
couple of months longer than she should have done. But I think this would only be fair if 
shed been given an extension and had been asked to carry on paying her monthly 
payments. As it stands, Miss O didnt carry on paying her monthly payments. And, based on 
what she said, she may have continued to use the car. So I dont think VWFS need to 
increase the mileage limit for the extra time Miss O had the car. 
VWFS offered to reduce the excess mileage charge by 25% because it hadnt responded to 
Miss Os concerns earlier. I think in all the circumstances, this is fair too. And I dont find I 
have the grounds to ask it to reduce the debt by more than that. 
In summary, while I can appreciate why Miss O is disappointed, I think VWFS has done 
enough to put things right.  
My final decision
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen Finance has paid 
Miss O £200 and offered to reduce the excess mileage charge by 25% to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that VWFS should, to the extent it hasnt done so already, take the action 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman