DRN-2714807
The complaint
Mr V believes PSA Finance UK Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a hire 
purchase agreement hed applied for.
What happened
In May 2017, Mr V was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
PSA. Mr V paid a £990 deposit, and the agreement was for £13,509 over 37 months, with 
36 monthly repayments of £282.64 and a final payment of £4,693. Mr V fell into financial 
difficulties and the car was repossessed in July 2018.
Mr V has complained that PSA didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. Hes 
said they didnt do a proper assessment of his affordability and ability to make repayments 
when they approved the finance. PSA didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly, so Mr V 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
PSA said theyd carried out a credit check and an income check, which showed that Mr V 
had a high credit score and a low indebtedness score. But they havent been able to 
provide any evidence of this. So our investigator looked at a more up to date copy of Mr Vs 
credit file, and considered the information that would most likely have been present when 
he applied for the finance with PSA. And she said there was nothing that showed Mr V was 
experiencing any financial difficulties at that time.
But the investigator didnt think that the checks PSA had carried out were proportionate 
as they hadnt asked about Mr Vs income or other outgoings. So they hadnt established 
if he could afford the monthly payments, or whether this affordability was sustainable over 
the term of the finance agreement.
The investigator reviewed Mr Vs bank statements from the time of the application to 
establish his income and expenditure. And she said that Mr V didnt have enough 
disposable monthly income to cover his food, transport costs and the £282.64 payment to 
PSA.
So the investigator said that, if PSA had carried out sufficient and appropriate checks, 
then they would most likely have seen the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr V. So she 
thought PSA had acted irresponsibly by agreeing the finance.
Because Mr V had use of the car while it was in his possession, the investigator thought he 
should pay £150 a month for his fair usage of the car. So she said PSA should repay Mr V 
anything hed paid over and above this amount, plus interest. She said that PSA should 
also terminate the agreement with nothing more to pay and remove any adverse credit 
from Mr Vs credit file.
PSA didnt agree. They said that Mr V signed a declaration saying the finance was 
affordable and that, a few months into the agreement, he assured them that the payments 
were still affordable. The investigator explained to PSA why she didnt think their 
comments changed her view and this matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are 
two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did PSA complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr V would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did PSA make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that 
Mr V could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did PSA act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that PSA didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr 
Vs application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did PSA complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr V would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect 
lenders to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance 
being applied for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each 
application.
PSA said they did a credit check and an income check at the time of application. But 
they havent been able to provide any evidence of these checks. Theyve also said that 
Mr V signed a declaration saying the monthly payments were affordable.
Ive seen Mr Vs credit file dated December 2020, which shows his credit commitments at 
the time of his application to PSA. This confirms Mr V had a monthly payment of £206 to 
a loan, a monthly payment of £530 a month to a mortgage, and that all of his credit 
commitments were up to date with no arrears, defaults or county court judgements.
But Ive seen nothing to show me that PSA verified Mr Vs income or his other regular 
outgoings. I dont consider it acceptable for PSA just to rely on Mr Vs declaration that the 
agreement was affordable and not to do any income and expenditure checks as a result. 
PSA have an obligation to ensure theyre lending responsibly, and I dont think that getting 
a customer to sign an affordability declaration is enough to discharge that obligation. So Id 
expect them to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that 
this was the case.
I also dont consider relying on a verbal statement made by Mr V some months into the 
agreement is reasonable  the finance had already been agreed at that point, regardless 
of what Mr V may or may not have said. PSA should be checking the affordability before 
the finance was approved, not some months later. And someones ability to make the first 
few payments on a finance agreement doesnt mean that continuing to make payments 
over the remaining term of the agreement is sustainable.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr V could sustainably repay the borrowing?
The main additional check Id expect PSA to have done is to have asked Mr V about his 
income, commitments and other expenditure to ensure their finance was affordable to him 
at the point of application; and to see that the payments were sustainable throughout the 
lifetime of the lending. This couldve been done by a number of methods, and I wouldnt 
necessarily have expected PSA to have asked Mr V for copies of his bank statements.
However, Mr V has provided his bank statements for two accounts for 21 February to 19 
June 2017 and 1 March to 31 July 2017 respectively. Both of these accounts were 
overdrawn during the periods in question, and there were also failed direct debits. Mr V 
signed the agreement with PSA in late May 2017 so, in the absence of anything else, I 
think the statements from March to May 2017 give a good indication of what PSA would 
likely have discovered if theyd asked about his expenditure at the time.
The bank statements show that Mr V was earning around £2,550 a month. He was 
paying an average of £1,247 a month for his mortgage, loans and credit cards, and an 
average of £141 a month for his mobile phone. Mr Vs council tax and utility bills were a 
further £265 a month and his childcare costs were around £780 a month. This left Mr V 
with £117 a month disposable income from which to pay food, transport and other 
essential costs e.g. clothing, as well as pay PSAs payment of £282 a month.
Based on this, Im satisfied that, had PSA carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, they wouldve seen that the finance wasnt affordable. So, Im also satisfied they 
acted irresponsibly when approving the loan, and they need to do something to put this 
right.
Did PSA act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think PSA acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in some other way.
Putting things right
As I dont think the finance shouldve been approved, Ive thought about how to put Mr V 
back in the position he wouldve been in if this hadnt happened. So I think that PSA 
should cancel the agreement. They should also refund the payments Mr V made, less an 
amount for his fair usage of the car.
Theres no set formula for working out what fair usage should be. So Ive considered the 
amount of interest charged on the agreement overall, Mr Vs usage of the car, and what it 
wouldve cost him to stay mobile in a similar car had he not entered into this agreement. 
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that £150 for each month Mr V had the car 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Given this, Im satisfied that PSA should:
cancel the agreement at no cost to Mr V;
refund everything Mr V has paid, minus a deduction of £150 for every month he 
was in possession of the car to account for his fair usage of it, plus 8% simple 
yearly interest on any overpayments Mr V has made, from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of the refund ; and
remove all adverse information relating to the finance agreement from Mr Vs 
credit file.HM Revenue & Customs requires PSA to take off tax from this interest. PSA must give Mr V 
a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Vs complaint. PSA Finance UK 
Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
Andrew Burford
 
Ombudsman