DRN-3392268
The complaint
A limited company which Ill refer to as B complains about the actions of National 
Westminster Bank Plc as the recipient bank of funds B was tricked into sending as the result 
of a scam.
Mr S, who is a director of B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf. For ease of reading, Ill 
mostly refer to Mr S, where I mean the company, B. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In February 2019 Mr S was sadly the victim of an email interception scam. He was making a 
payment to settle an invoice and the emails were interfered with and the account details 
were changed. This meant that instead of going to the genuine beneficiary that Mr S 
believed he was dealing with; the funds went to an account controlled by the scammer.
The payment went to an account with NatWest. When Mr S realised hed been the victim of 
a scam he tried to recover his money from the NatWest account but was told that no funds 
remained. 
A complaint was referred to our service and one of our Investigators recommended it should 
be upheld. In summary she thought NatWest could have acted sooner in relation to the 
activity on that account and that the loss could have been prevented. She recommended 
that NatWest refund B along with interest. NatWest ultimately accepted they could have 
done more, but they also felt that B too were partly responsible for the loss. They offered to 
refund 50%. Mr S didnt accept that offer and as agreement couldnt be found, the complaint 
has come to me to decide. 
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision which explained the extent to which I was able to 
consider this complaint. And in February 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our Investigator, so Im issuing this 
provisional decision to allow everyone a further opportunity to comment. 
Mr S payment arrived in the beneficiary account on 4 February 2019. By this point the 
account had been open for a number of months with only very minimal activity. But its not 
uncommon, given the nature of the account for it to be opened in advance of commencing 
regular use. That being said, I would expect NatWest to be alert to the activity on newly 
opened (or recently active) accounts as these present a greater risk compared to more 
established accounts. 
I think it would be reasonable to have expected NatWest to have verified the first payment 
on the account on the evening of 4 February. The account had had little use in recent 
months. And this appears to have been the first time there was spending using the debit 
card associated with that account. There were several risks associated with this payment. 
The card might have been intercepted, lost, stolen or otherwise compromised, and there was 
a sudden change to the operation of the account. And the payment was for a relatively large 
amount for first time card use (£3,500). Given this I think its reasonable to have expected 
NatWest to have confirmed it was a genuine instruction from the accountholder. 
The checks are usually proportionate to the risks that a business is trying to mitigate. In this 
case I think the main risk was of card interception, so I think its most likely that this would 
have taken the form of a text (SMS) message or other automated checking. And as the 
accountholder was most likely complicit in the scam in some way, its probable they would 
have confirmed the activity to be genuine. Im not persuaded that its reasonable to have 
expected NatWest to have investigated further at that point.
There was further spending from the account on 5 February 2019. In particular there were 
two payments, only two minutes apart, each for around £4,000. I think that the second of 
these payments ought to have prompted NatWest to have intervened prior to releasing it. By 
that point I think the account activity is indicative of a potential pattern of fraud and the 
misappropriation of funds. Had NatWest then taken a closer look before releasing that 
second payment, they then would have noticed that the merchants with whom the funds 
were being spent, didnt match what might reasonably be expected given what they knew 
about their customer from their due diligence at account opening. 
Its also likely that at this point NatWest would have noticed that there was a mismatch 
between the beneficiary name associated with the payment and the named accountholder. 
And whilst this wasnt something they were required to check when processing the payment, 
it would have been further evidence that something might be amiss. 
I dont think NatWests accountholder would have been able to provide a plausible 
explanation or proof of entitlement to the incoming payment from Mr S. As such, I think the 
funds remaining in the account at that time would have been recoverable. However, as there 
had already been a fair amount of spending which I dont think NatWest reasonably ought to 
have stopped, the preventable loss is £4,806.73. I also think its appropriate that 8% simple 
interest be added to this amount to compensate B for being without those funds. 
Ive considered whether its appropriate to make a reduction in award on the basis of 
contributory negligence as NatWest have suggested. Im not persuaded that is appropriate in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Ive seen a copy of the intercepted email and invoice; 
there is only a very subtle difference between the email address used and the genuine one. I 
also dont think the invoice had obviously been interfered with or amended. So, I dont think 
Mr S was negligent in not picking up on this at the time. Mr S has also confirmed that hes 
not received any redress from either his own sending bank or from any other source in 
relation to this payment. 
Im also aware that the offer NatWest have already made is greater than the redress Im 
proposing in this decision. Its a matter for NatWest as to whether that offer is still available 
to be accepted. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im only intending to award the redress 
suggested below
Mr S responded with some comments which Ill address below. NatWest responded to say 
they had nothing further to add. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S presented evidence of an invoice for around £1,200 that hed paid to a solicitor to draft 
a letter of claim against NatWest. He asked if this expense could be considered as part of 
this complaint. 
There is no requirement to use professional representation to use our service. And ultimately 
it was Mr S decision to engage the services of a solicitor to draft a letter of claim for him and 
to include that in his submissions to us. I dont think there is any reasonable basis upon 
which I could tell NatWest they need to meet this cost.
As no further comments or evidence (beyond the above) were provided by either party, I see 
no reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
National Westminster Bank Plc must pay B the equivalent of £4,806.73 in Euros and add to 
this amount 8% simple interest between the date of notification and the date of settlement. 
The conversion for the total redress should be based on the exchange rate on the date of 
notification.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman