DRN-2443306
The complaint
Mrs P complains that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) led her to believe she could make 
lump sum payments against her Hire Purchase Agreement (HPA) before she made her first 
repayment. She would like PSA to apologise, to amend its website information and to pay 
£150 compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator for the following reasons: -
I appreciate Mrs P doesnt feel PSA deliberately mislead her ,more that it led her to 
believe she could make a payment straight away against her HPA., I dont think what 
PSA told Mrs P was wrong. It would seem sensible to me that an agreement would 
have to have started before any additional payments were made. I think it would be 
unusual for someone to expect to pay a lump prior to this .So I think its possible PSA 
simply didnt reaslise this is what Mrs P wanted to do.
Mrs P hasnt evidenced to us the actual loss to her in attempting to make a lump sum 
payment. PSA did note if would refund any loss of interest occurred which I think was 
a reasonable suggestion.
In terms of PSAs website, I think the information, as with the verbal information 
provided wasnt incorrect. If as a result of Mrs Ps complaint, PSA choses to amend 
its website thats for it to decide. But its not for me to tell PSA how to operate.
Mrs P is also not happy at how PSA handled her complaint. Complaint handling isnt 
a regulated activity so not something I can investigate specifically. But I can look at 
some aspects of the complaint process one of which is around the final response 
letter (FRL). PSA sent its FRL on 12 May 2020 . That letter stated it was PSAs final 
response and it gave the correct referral rights to our service if Mrs P wished to take 
her complaint further. So, I dont think it was then inappropriate on 12 May 2020 for 
PSA to send an email saying the case was closed as at that point , if she wished to 
pursue her complaint, was to come to this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman