DRN-3390344
The complaint
Mr O complains that the advice InterestMe Financial Planning Limited (InterestMe) gave to 
him in October 2017 about the consolidation and investment of his pension savings was 
unsuitable.
What happened
Mr O has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But in this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, 
and from, Mr O himself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. In that decision 
I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what InterestMe needed to do 
to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr O held pension saving with four different firms. In 2017 he sought advice from 
InterestMe regarding the consolidation, and subsequent investment, of those pension 
savings. InterestMe gathered information from Mr O about his circumstances and 
future plans before recommending that he consolidate his pension savings into a new 
Self-Invested Pension Plan (SIPP). And it advised him to engage a third-party 
investment manager for the future investment of the transferred monies. Mr O 
accepted InterestMes advice, and the funds were transferred into the new SIPP in 
November 2017. Mr O paid InterestMe a one-off fee of 3% of the transferred monies 
for the advice hed been given. And he has paid an annual servicing fee of 0.75% per 
annum to InterestMe.
Mr Os complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
InterestMes recommendation was suitable for Mr Os circumstances. He thought that 
without that recommendation Mr O would have invested his pension monies 
differently. So he asked InterestMe to pay Mr O some compensation.
InterestMe accepted our investigators assessment and calculated the compensation 
it thought was due to Mr O. But Mr O asked for some further information on that 
calculation, particularly in relation to the fees that had been deducted from the 
projected investment returns, and how the current value of his SIPP had been 
calculated as he thought some of the assets were illiquid.
I too have independently reviewed the advice it [InterestMe] provided to Mr O and 
agree with our investigators conclusions, for entirely the same reasons. It doesnt 
seem to me that it was necessary for Mr O to transfer his investments to the SIPP, or 
for him to engage the services of the third-party investment manager. Im not 
persuaded that the assessment InterestMe made of Mr Os appetite for risk was 
entirely appropriate.
So what is left for me to decide is what InterestMe should do in order to put things 
right for Mr O. And below I will set out the steps that I propose InterestMe should take 
in order to compensate Mr O. But before I do that, I think it would be helpful for me to 
address, and seek clarification, on some of the questions that Mr O has raised in 
response to our investigators proposals.
It seems to me that Mr O has paid two types of fee to InterestMe. He paid a fee of 
3% of his transferred pension savings in relation to the advice that he was originally 
given. And he has then paid a subsequent annual fee of 0.75% of his pension 
savings. So I have considered whether those fees should form part of the 
compensation that I am directing.
I have looked carefully at the fee agreement that Mr O signed. It seems to me that 
the initial advice fee would have been payable whether or not he accepted the 
recommendation that InterestMe made  or even if that recommendation had been to 
leave his pension savings with the existing providers. So I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to direct that fee to be refunded. However Im not persuaded that 
Mr O would have continued to pay an annual servicing fee to InterestMe had its 
advice been to not transfer the pension savings. So I do think those fees should form 
part of the compensation that is paid to Mr O.
Given InterestMes lack of response to our investigators questions I cannot be sure 
how Mr Os pension savings are currently invested. Mr O says that some of the 
investments he currently holds are illiquid, and so getting a true market valuation is 
difficult. So in the redress I am proposing below I have made provision for what 
should be done if his pension savings do comprise some illiquid investments (that is 
investments that cannot be easily sold on the open market, and so do not have a fair 
market value available).
 
I would encourage InterestMe, as part of its response to this provisional decision, to 
provide further information about the investments Mr O holds, and how it might value 
those investments when calculating the compensation that is due to him.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mr O has accepted my provisional decision, however he has sought 
clarification as to how any further disputes about InterestMes calculations would be 
resolved. And InterestMe has provided some further information in relation to the questions 
our investigator had asked before I issued my decision.
InterestMe says that it doesnt consider any of the investments in Mr Os pension plan to be 
illiquid. It says that the investments are still paying the agreed interest distributions and that it 
has no concerns about the carry value of the investments being correct. It says that a 
secondary market exists for the sale of those investments. And it has said that the redress it 
previously calculated contained deductions for three types of fee  its initial advice charge of 
1.5%, its ongoing annual advice charge of 0.75%, and an estimated annual management 
charge that would have been levied by the ceding schemes of 1%.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.It seems to me that both parties have largely accepted the method of redress that I set out in 
my provisional decision. But, to try and resolve any issues before they arise, there are a 
couple of matters that would benefit from some further commentary.
I have no powers to enforce the payment of any redress that has been directed. 
Enforcement of that redress would fall to InterestMes regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, and ultimately to the Courts. However I hope that will be unnecessary and 
InterestMe will be able to provide sufficient information to Mr O to show that it has complied 
with my directions below.
I also wish to provide some further clarification about the fees that it would be appropriate to 
deduct from the compensation InterestMe calculates is due to Mr O. In my provisional 
decision I explained that I thought it would be reasonable to direct that the initial advice fee 
Mr O had paid should be deducted from the compensation that was due. But I explicitly said 
that I didnt think the annual servicing fees should be payable. So InterestMe will need to 
amend its compensation calculations to exclude those fees.
I provided two means by which InterestMe could calculate the notional value of Mr Os 
pension savings had they not been transferred. The most accurate method of assessing that 
value would be to gather the information directly from his previous providers. And doing so 
would most likely take account of any annual management charges he would have needed 
to pay. But I provided an alternative method of calculation if InterestMe was unable, or 
unwilling, to get a valuation from Mr Os previous providers. That method used a benchmark 
to provide an estimate of what his pension savings would be worth. Since that is naturally 
only an estimate I dont think it reasonable for an arbitrary estimate of annual management 
charges to be deducted from those returns.
So in terms of fees, the only deduction that I think it appropriate for InterestMe to make itself 
to any redress calculation, particularly since it appears to be using the benchmark method, 
would be the 3% fee it initially received for the advice it gave to Mr O in 2017. I note that in 
its response to my provisional decision InterestMe described that fee as being 1.5%. 
I assume that to be a typographical error given the paperwork from the time clearly shows 
the fee as being 3%.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr O should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
It is possible Mr O might have combined his pension savings into a single pension plan. But 
in assessing fair compensation I think it is reasonable to work on the basis that Mr O would 
have remained with his previous providers. However I cannot be certain that a value will be 
obtainable for what the previous policies would have been worth. I am satisfied what I have 
set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given Mr O's 
circumstances and objectives when his pension savings were transferred.
What must InterestMe do?
To compensate Mr O fairly, InterestMe must:
Compare the performance of Mr O's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.InterestMe should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, InterestMe should pay into Mr O's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If InterestMe is unable to pay the compensation into Mr O's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr O wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr O's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. I have reached a reasonable 
assumption, that hasnt been queried by either party that Mr O is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
However, if Mr O would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 
15%.
InterestMe should set out its calculations for Mr O in a clear and easily 
understandable format, including details of the basis on which it has valued his 
current pension investments.
Income tax may be payable on any additional interest paid. If InterestMe deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr O how much has been taken off. InterestMe should give 
Mr O a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr O asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom 
(start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional Interest
Existing 
SIPPPotentially 
some liquid 
/ some 
illiquidNotional 
values from 
previous 
providers 
less the 
initial advice 
feeDate of 
transferDate of 
this final 
decision8% simple per year from 
final decision to 
settlement (if not settled 
within 28 days of the 
business receiving the 
complainants acceptance
Actual value
This means the actual value of the SIPP at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of some of the portfolio. This is complicated where 
an asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as might be the 
case here.If any assets are illiquid InterestMe should take ownership of them by paying a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount InterestMe pays should be included 
in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If InterestMe is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. InterestMe may require that Mr O provides an undertaking to 
pay InterestMe any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan.
InterestMe will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr O's investments had they remained with the previous providers until 
the end date, less an allowance for the initial advice fee that was payable shared 
proportionately across each pension provider. InterestMe should request that the previous 
provider calculate this value.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, InterestMe will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr O's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the 
calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional 
value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr O wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr O's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct InterestMe Financial Planning 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman