DRN-2118103
The complaint
Ms W and Mr W are unhappy about the amount that Aviva Insurance Limited paid to settle 
their claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms W and Mr W had an escape of water at their home that flooded their basement. They 
tried to contact Aviva by phone and online to make a claim, but were unable to do so. So, Ms 
W and Mr W contacted a company to stop the leak, pump the water out of the basement and 
then carry out works to repair the damage.
After the work was complete, Ms W and Mr W contacted Aviva again to make a claim for the 
damage and to be reimbursed for the work, which cost £25,000. Aviva investigated the claim 
and agreed to pay 50% of the bill for the works, so £12,500, and £1,000 in interest on the 
payment because of the amount of time Aviva took to make its decision due to its 
investigation.
Ms W and Mr W complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that he thought that Avivas settlement offer was reasonable in the circumstances.
As Ms W and Mr W did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W and Mr W registered the claim about two months after the water leaked into their 
basement, by which time they had already had the leak fixed and repairs carried out. This 
meant that when Aviva looked into the claim, it wasnt able to identify what had caused the 
leak, the details of the damage and what work was necessary to rectify it. As a result, Aviva 
carried out an investigation to decide how to proceed. Following this, it agreed to pay 50% of 
the costs that Ms W and Mr W had paid to deal with the leak, plus interest. In the 
circumstances, I think that was reasonable and I will explain why below.
Given that the leak had been dealt with before Aviva got involved, it seems that by the time it 
started to look at the claim it wasnt possible to establish the details of the leak. However, 
when it assessed how much it thought it would have cost Aviva to carry out the work itself, it 
concluded that it would have cost about £2,250. But, as Ms W and Mr W had the work 
carried out before registering the claim, Aviva was then asked to reimburse what they had 
paid for the works, which was £25,000. So I can understand why Aviva wanted to look into 
this further and to consider whether the costs that they were being asked to pay were fully 
justified.
Aviva looked at the homebuyers report from when Ms W and Mr W bought the property and 
decided that the leak seemed to have happened after they had moved in, so there was a 
valid claim. 
However, I think it was more difficult for Aviva to establish what work was necessary to deal 
with the claim, as well as exactly what the costs covered. This was partly because Ms W and 
Mr W were unable to fully describe the work that was carried out and the reasons for all of it 
and also because the company that did the work didnt provide full details of the work it had 
done or a breakdown of costs, despite Aviva asking for this.
As a result, I think it was difficult for Aviva to know whether all of the works were necessary 
or whether some of it was betterment (that is making something better than it was before any 
insured incident) and whether the companys charges were all appropriate. So, I think it was 
reasonable that Aviva was concerned that this, combined with the large difference in Avivas 
assessment of likely costs, meant that there wasnt enough evidence to justify the £25,000 
that Ms W and Mr W were claiming for. 
In the circumstances, I think that Aviva paying 50% of the costs that Ms W and Mr W were 
claiming for was reasonable. This is because Aviva wasnt able to inspect the damage for 
itself, the cause and extent of the damage wasnt clear and it wasnt possible to establish 
whether the work carried out was only what was necessary to deal with the damage, rather 
than providing any betterment. It also wasnt possible to get a full breakdown of the cost of 
the work carried out and what it covered. So, I dont think there was enough evidence to 
show that the £25,000 claimed for should be fully reimbursed to settle the claim. Although I 
accept that the amount offered by Aviva was considerably less than the amount claimed for, 
it was also considerably more than Avivas assessment of how much it would have cost to 
do the work itself. So, I think paying 50% of the costs was reasonable in the circumstances.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint or require Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman