DRN-3347834
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited continued to collect the monthly premiums
she was paying for her private medical insurance during a time she says she was unable to
access services she was paying for under her policy.
What happened
Ms T has had the benefit of medical insurance, underwritten by BUPA, for many years. The
policy was renewed for one year on 1 December 2019 and Ms T was paying over £100 per
month for the policy.
Due to the unusual and unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic, and
the pressure this was putting on the NHS, medical facilities ordinarily used for privately
funded treatment were utilised by the NHS for treatment. As a result, BUPA says it had to
suspend routine and non-urgent treatments.
Shortly before this happened, Ms T had seen a consultant about injuries to both ankles. A
MRI scan was also carried out. And as a result, Ms T had surgery on one ankle and was
given a medical boot for the other. However, she says she couldnt attend a follow up
consultation with the consultant, arrange physiotherapy or access equipment she needed to
assist with her recovery because of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, Ms T
says her injuries havent healed as they shouldve.
Ms T says she was left in an unfair situation and shes unhappy that she required to keep
paying her monthly premiums for the policy during this time, as BUPA wasnt providing the
services she needed and she was paying for. She has described BUPAs actions as
fraudulent and tantamount to theft.
At the time, BUPA said it was committed to pass back any exceptional financial benefit it
ultimately received because of Covid-19 to its UK health insurance customers  either by
way of a rebate or other appropriate means. And when the likely impact of the Covid-19
pandemic was clearer it said it would update Ms T on how it would do this. BUPA also said
that it would commission a third-party review to ensure that what it does is fair and
reasonable across its different customer groups.
Ms T wasnt happy with this response, so she complained to our Service. Our investigator
didnt uphold her complaint. He also said that Ms Ts had raised other issues with our 
Service, that it didnt have the power to consider. And he explained why.
Ms T disagreed. So, her complaint was passed to me consider everything afresh and decide. 
I issued my provisional decision in February 2022 explaining in a bit more detail why I wasnt 
intending to uphold Ms Ts complaint. An extract of which is set out below. 
Continuing to collect monthly premiums
I dont think BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint by
continuing to collect monthly insurance premiums from Ms T in early 2020 when its ability to
provide a full service was impacted. Ill explain why.
During 2020 private medical facilities were taken over by the NHS to support the 
NHSs response to the pandemic. This temporarily affected BUPAs ability to provide 
the full range of services it would usually be able to offer customers under their 
particular medical insurance policies  including Ms T. This was due to the 
unprecedented and unforeseen impact of Covid-19 pandemic and, Im satisfied, was 
outside of BUPAs of control.
BUPA accept that routine and non-urgent treatments may have been deferred or 
delayed as a result of the pandemic. But Im satisfied that BUPA did put in place 
other benefits to support its customers at this time  including, where possible, 
arranging remote consultations with appropriate medical professionals and offering 
access to a GP, virtually. I appreciate that Ms T may not have wanted to access 
treatment in that way. But Im persuaded that Ms Ts policy was capable of 
benefitting her during this time if shed contacted BUPA about the aftercare she 
needed after the treatment shed had shortly before the nationwide lockdown in 
March 2020.
BUPA has said that inpatient and outpatient care was still offered by the policy and 
that if one of their customers had contacted it to make a claim, they wouldve been 
assisted in doing so. And from what Ive seen, and in the absence of receiving any 
evidence to the contrary, I accept what BUPA says.
Ms T says she believes she called BUPA a few times during the early stages of the 
pandemic about having follow up treatment. However, she says shes unable to 
provide exact dates. Apart from a call on 29 May 2020  during which Ms T repeats 
her concerns about the way BUPA has behaved - BUPA says it has no record of Ms 
T contacting it from around the end of March 2020 about her treatment. So, overall, 
Im not persuaded that Ms T contacted BUPA about ongoing treatment at the time. I 
think its more likely that she spoke to the medical facility who may have told her that 
it couldnt offer her any follow up appointments at that time. But the medical facility is 
independent of BUPA. Therefore, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold 
BUPA responsible for that.
BUPA did cover the costs of a consultation with Ms Ts orthopaedic surgeon and 
physiotherapy in July 2020, after private medical facilities were being used for private 
treatment again.
Ms T says members clubs and gyms suspended monthly membership costs as they 
couldnt offer their members the full range of services they pay for. That might be the 
case, but an insurance policy operates differently to a membership to a gym or 
private members club. And for the reasons Ive already set out above, Im persuaded 
that she was still capable of benefitting from the policy even though certain 
treatments mightve been restricted / delayed at that time.
Ms T has also said that other medical insurance providers have refunded premiums 
to policyholders impacted by the disruption to their cover caused by Covid-19. But I 
dont think that automatically means BUPA acted unfairly by not doing so at the time. 
Different insurers are free to make different commercial decisions.
At the outset, BUPA said that if it transpired that there was a reduction in the claims it 
paid for customers overall, it would pass back to customers any exceptional financial 
benefit it has made arising as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. I think BUPAs published course of action at the time of addressing Ms Ts complaint in May/June 
2020 was fair and reasonable. The effects of the pandemic were still ongoing, and 
the impact was still uncertain. Further, Im satisfied by BUPAs explanation that non-
urgent treatments - deferred in the earlier stages of the pandemic - wouldve still 
needed to have been delivered and funded by BUPA at a later date, once private 
facilities were no longer needed by the NHS to treat patients. As such, its likely that 
the costs of such treatments were simply delayed to a later date.
MRI Scan
Ms T says BUPA omitted to pay for her MRI scan. From what Ive seen, Im persuaded that
BUPA didnt receive the invoice for the MRI scan from the private hospital until much later
after BUPA had chased the hospital towards the end of June 2020 for the invoice in
response to Ms T complaint. Upon receiving it, Im satisfied that it was promptly settled. So,
I dont think BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
Equipment costs
Ms T says she bought equipment to help with the recovery from her injuries including foot
braces, ankle walking brace, cushioned socks and basic physio equipment to help with
stretches  as she had no access to a physiotherapist at the time. She says BUPA has
declined to cover these expenses.
BUPA has told us that Ms T hasnt raised this complaint directly with it, allowing BUPA an
opportunity to reply. However, as this issue is closely related to other concerns Ms T has
brought to our Service, BUPA has agreed to our Service deciding this issue.
BUPA accepts that the claim for the equipment wasnt accepted in June 2020 as the items
claimed for were excluded under the policy.
Exclusion 22 (at page 41 of the policy terms and conditions) relates to physical aids and
devices. It says BUPA does not:
pay for supplying or fitting physical aids and devices (eg hearing aids, spectacles,
contact lenses, crutches, walking sticks, etc).
Exception: We pay for prostheses and appliances as set out in benefit 3, in the
section Benefits
Benefit 3.2.7 (at page 28 of the policy terms and conditions) says BUPA pays a recognised
facility charges for a prosthesis or appliance needed as part of your day-patient treatment or 
in-patient treatment.
Even if I accepted that the items claimed for by Ms T were listed on BUPAs prothesis and
appliance list as of June 2020 as defined by the policy  which I dont intend to make a
finding on  Im currently satisfied that BUPA has acted fairly and reasonably by declining
this claim. Thats because Ms T told our investigator on 26 January 2021 that the items were
recommended by a friend. Theres no medical evidence to suggest that they were needed as
part of the treatment she had on her ankles. And neither were the costs of the items charged
by the recognised facility at which she had treatment on her ankles.
Issues around adding a back exclusion
Our powers to look into certain complaints are set out in the Dispute Resolution Rules
(DISP) of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. This can be read online.
DISP 2.8.2 of the FCA Handbook says we cant look at a complaint if its been brought morethan six months after the date the business sent its final response letter. These time limits
only apply when a business doesnt consent to us looking at the complaint - because it
thinks its been brought to us out of time. BUPA hasnt consented in this case.
Im satisfied that BUPAs letter to Ms T dated 13 January 2017 constitutes its answer to Ms
Ts complaint about the exclusions she says were added to the policy and related to her
back. And Im satisfied that it meets the requirements to constitute BUPAs final response.
As Ms T didnt bring her complaint to our Service within six months from the date of this
letter, we dont have the power to consider this complaint - unless there are any exceptional
circumstances meaning Ms T couldnt have brought her complaint to us within the six
months from when she shouldve. Ms T says she didnt complain to our Service at the time
due to naivety as to how the process works. From what Ms T has told us, Im not persuaded
that there were any exceptional circumstances preventing Ms T from bringing this complaint
to our Service within the stipulated timeframe.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or information in response to my 
provisional decision for me to consider. BUPA didnt reply and Ms T didnt provide any 
substantive comments in response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further substantive representations about the outcome of this 
complaint, theres no reason for me to reach a different conclusion to that set out in my 
provisional decision. So, for that reason, and reasons set out in my provisional decision (an 
extract of which is set out in the background section of this final decision), I dont uphold 
Ms Ts complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms T to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman