DRN-3997443
The complaint
Mr B has complained that TenetConnect Limiteds appointed representative, Surebond 
Limited, gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit occupational pension 
(DB) scheme to a personal pension plan. I will refer to TenetConnect Limited 
(TenetConnect) throughout this decision.
What happened
In 1994 TenetConnect advised Mr B to transfer his preserved benefits in the Mineworkers 
Pension Scheme (MPS) to a personal pension plan. The basis for the recommendation was 
recorded as the potential for bettering Mr Bs MPS benefits. 
Mr Bs pension benefits were transferred to a new provider on 7 September 1994, for a cash 
equivalent value of £61,142.44. Three years later, through a different financial advisory firm, 
Mr B switched his pension plan to second new provider.
Shortly after Mr Bs 52nd birthday, in February 2007, he withdrew a tax-free lump sum in the 
region of £32,500 and set up two annuities providing a reduced level income (due to the tax-
free cash lump sum) of approximately £5,100 per year. He also paid for a guarantee to 
ensure payments to his wife in the event of his death. 
In 2019 Mr B made enquiries through the National Union of Mineworkers to find out what 
benefits he wouldve received had he not transferred out of the occupational pension 
scheme. Following this, Mr B raised a complaint January 2020 centred on two main issues. 
Firstly, Mr B said that he wouldve been receiving a higher pension if he hadnt transferred. 
Secondly, he said his wife would have the potential of higher pension benefits if he pre-
deceased her. In summary, therefore, he felt the advice he had received from TenetConnect 
in 1994 to transfer his pension benefits was unsuitable.
TenetConnect told Mr B his complaint had been made too late, and that they were unwilling 
to look into it. TenetConnect highlighted a number of events or points in time by which they 
said Mr B shouldve reasonably become aware he had cause for complaint, including the 
advice given in 1997, receipt of ongoing pensions statements, and the setting up of annuities 
in 2007. As Mr Bs 2020 complaint was made more than six years after the original advice 
was given, and more than three years after TenetConnect said he shouldve been aware of 
cause for complaint, TenetConnect argued that Mr Bs window for bringing the complaint had 
closed. 
Mr B brought the complaint to this Service and our investigator found it had been brought in 
time and fell within our jurisdiction to consider. As TenetConnect didnt agree, the complaint 
was passed to me. 
I issued my provisional findings in January 2023. In summary, while I agreed that Mr Bs 
complaint had been made more than six years after the event complained about, I did not 
agree that Mr B shouldve reasonably known he had cause for complaint more than three 
years previously. I considered the various events that TenetConnect had highlighted, but I 
wasnt persuaded that any of them would have set Mr B on the path to discovery that he had 
a complaint. 
Having considered all the other available evidence, I concluded that Mr Bs complaint 
against TenetConnect fell within our jurisdiction. As such, I went on to consider the merits of 
the complaint. 
Having reviewed what we know of Mr Bs financial circumstances at the time of the advice, I 
concluded that the security offered by the benefits Mr B had accrued in the MPS wouldve 
been important and valuable to him. As such, I wouldnt have expected Mr B to have been 
advised to give up these benefits, unless there was a reasonable chance of doing 
significantly better.
I noted that a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) was carried out to calculate how much Mr Bs 
personal pension would need to grow by year on year to allow him to purchase the same 
benefits at retirement that wouldve been available to him had he remained in the MPS. 
TenetConnect advised Mr B that there was a reasonable expectation of achieving returns of 
more than the benchmark used (9.3%) and that there was a good chance of bettering his 
pension benefits following a transfer.
However, I also noted that the calculations were all based on a transfer value of £74.000.74, 
as per the value given in the February 1994 MPS benefit schedule. When the completion of 
the transfer was confirmed to TenetConnect in September 1994, the total amount was only 
£61,142.44. Had the calculations been redone with these updated figures, this reduction 
wouldve had a significant impact, raising the required yearly investment return from 9.3% to 
almost 11.3%. This exceeds the 10.8% upper limit for a Financial Viability Test set by the 
regulator.
As such, based on the actual transfer value in September 1994, and the unlikely prospect of 
attaining the required yearly investment returns of 11.3%, I found Mr B shouldve been 
advised to remain in the MPS rather than taking an investment risk that was unlikely to better 
the benefits he was giving up. Furthermore, I was minded to conclude that in relying on the 
February 1994 transfer valuation, rather than obtaining a more accurate, up-to-date transfer 
valuation, TenetConnect had not advised Mr B with the appropriate skill, care and due 
diligence required.
Although I was unable to say precisely what the updated transfer valuation wouldve been 
in July 1994, on the balance of probability, I concluded it would likely have been closer to 
the actual transfer value in September 1994 than the higher figure provided almost six 
months previously. Given the financial analysis appeared to have been the sole basis on 
which the transfer advice was given, I was minded to conclude that Mr B shouldve been to 
stay in the MPS. 
Had Mr B been advised against the transfer, I thought he wouldve most likely accepted this 
advice and kept his MPS benefits as they were. As such, I provisionally upheld the complaint 
and explained I intended to instruct TenetConnect to pay Mr B fair compensation. In 
addition, I explained I was minded to instruct TenetConnect to pay Mr B £400 for the worry 
and upset caused to him during the course of his complaint.
Mr B has accepted my provisional decision. TenetConnect has not accepted my provisional 
decision and has reiterated its position that Mr Bs complaint does not fall within this 
Services jurisdiction to consider, on the basis that it has been brought outside the required 
timescales. In support of this, TenetConnect has made a number of arguments. Firstly, TenetConnect has argued that when Mr B started taking his benefits in February 
2007, he wouldve been able to compare this income with the projected income from the 
MPS at normal retirement date on his original transfer paperwork. Therefore, TenetConnect 
has said Mr B shouldve known he had a cause for complaint in February 2007  almost 
thirteen years before he raised his complaint on 16 January 2020. 
However, as explained in my provisional decision, Ive reviewed the available documentation 
given to Mr B in 1994, and Im not persuaded it wouldve provided him with a clear basis for 
comparison. The recommendation letter didnt specify the benefits Mr B couldve reasonably 
expected to receive in retirement and, instead, simply stated that growth of between 6.5% 
and 9.3% would be required to match the MPS benefits he was giving up from age 60. 
Further information was available in one of the appendices to the actuarial report, but again 
this was based on a retirement date of 60. 
Ive not seen anything in the documentation from the time of advice which I believe would 
have clearly indicated to Mr B the level of lump sum and reduced pension he could 
reasonably expect to have received if he retired at 52, having stayed in the MPS until that 
point. For clarity, Im not suggesting that the 1994 documentation ought to have provided 
figures based on a retirement date of 52, as Mr B presumably had not yet formulated these 
retirement plans at the time  only that without this information, the 1994 documentation was 
insufficient to be used as a basis for clear comparison in 2007. 
Secondly, TenetConnect has commented on a point discussed in my provisional decision, 
namely the question of whether Mr Bs ongoing pensions statements shouldve reasonably 
alerted him that he might have cause for complaint, due to returns being lower than those 
illustrated at the time of the 1994 advice. I have stated that  in the absence of copies of 
these documents - we do not know what information was provided to Mr B, nor the format in 
which it was presented. 
TenetConnect has argued that it is only reasonable to assume that the format wouldve been 
clear and accessible. However, even were I to accept this, it would have no bearing on the 
wider argument. As stated in my provisional decision, the 1994 projections covered a 
relatively long time period, and so any year-on-year discrepancies seen in statements  
however clearly presented - mightve reasonably been assumed to be fluctuations that would 
self-correct by the time Mr B retired many years in the future.
Lastly, TenetConnect has pointed to the advice Mr B received in 1997 when he switched his 
pension plan to a second new provider, and has reiterated its argument that Mr B wouldve 
been made aware he had a cause for complaint at this time. Specifically, TenetConnect has 
said, It is reasonable that his new IFA ought to have made him aware he had cause for 
complaint before he transferred his pension. Tenet shouldnt be held responsible for the 
performance of the pension after this point.
I dont think it is reasonable to assume that Mr Bs adviser in 1997 wouldve commented on 
the suitability of advice given by a different adviser some years previously. Instead, the 1997 
advisers focus wouldve been on what was suitable for Mr B in light of his current 
circumstances in 1997. 
Furthermore, even if one were to argue that the 1997 adviser shouldve been expected to 
comment on the quality of the previous advice (which I do not accept), Ive seen no evidence 
that they actually did so in this case. Yet we do have evidence to the contrary; namely that 
Mr B has specifically told us he was not made aware of any cause for complaint until many 
years later. So, on the balance of probability, I find it unlikely that the 1997 adviser did 
anything to set Mr B on the path to discovery that he might have cause for complaint about 
the earlier advice from TenetConnect.Neither party has made any further comments or submissions, and the deadline for 
responses has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the complaint again in its entirety, along with the additional comments 
that have been provided by TenetConnect, I have reached the same decision as before, and 
for the same reasons.
As such, I am upholding the complaint and instructing TenetConnect to put things right, as 
set out below.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for TenetConnect to put Mr B, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in, but for the unsuitable advice. I think he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. I therefore instruct TenetConnect to undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
TenetConnect may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into a pension plan for Mr B. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
TenetConnect receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
TenetConnect to pay Mr B.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TenetConnect deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. TenetConnect should give Mr 
B a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
For clarity, Mr B purchased an annuity and took tax-free cash with his personal pension at 
the age of 52. Whilst I understand he hasnt fully retired, it is reasonable to assume that he 
wouldve taken benefits from the MPS at the same time instead, and so this date should be 
used as the basis for the calculations.
In addition, I instruct TenetConnect to pay Mr B £400 for the worry and upset caused to him, 
during the period he believed he would be materially worse off in retirement and that his wife 
would receive substantially lower pension benefits if he predeceased her. 
As stated above, I consider a fair and reasonable way to redress Mr B is for TenetConnect to 
undertake a calculation in line with the guidance set out by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) in its Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
In my provisional decision I noted that on 2 August 2022 the FCA launched a consultation on 
changes to this guidance. This was followed by a policy statement, published on 28 
November 2022, which set out the new rules and guidance that will come into effect on 1 
April 2023.
I also noted that the FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer 
compensation to their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. 
But that, until changes take effect, firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
In my provision decision, I explained that I considered it fair for me to give Mr B the same 
choice. As such, I asked Mr B to let me know in response to my provisional decision whether 
he wished for TenetConnect to calculate any compensation that may be owed to him: 
a)in line with the guidance in FG17/9
or 
b) in line with any new rules or guidance that will come into force on 1 April 2023.
Mr B has responded that he would like his compensation to be calculated in line with 
FG17/9. I am satisfied that this will provide fair redress for Mr B, and, as such I instruct 
TenetConnect to carry out its redress calculation in line with FG17/9.
Further information
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.My provisional decision is that TenetConnect should pay Mr B the amount produced by that 
calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus any award of interest and/or costs/ interest 
on costs.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that TenetConnect pays Mr B the balance. 
This recommendation will not form part of my final determination or award. TenetConnect 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision and go 
to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
This Service can consider Mr Bs complaint against TenetConnect Limited as it falls under 
our jurisdiction. 
I uphold Mr Bs complaint. My final decision is that TenetConnect Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above. TenetConnect Limited should also provide details of 
its calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format. 
In addition, TenetConnect should pay Mr B £400 for the worry and upset caused to him 
during the course of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Ellie Clare
Ombudsman
