DRN-2348691
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Lend Fair Limited (Lend Fair) irresponsibly provided him with an 
unaffordable guarantor loan. 
  
Background
Lend Fair provided Mr M with a guarantor loan in May 2015. The loan was for £2,200.00, 
secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement, had an APR of 48.0% and due to 
be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £105.06. The total amount to be repaid was 
£3,803.04, which included interest of £1,603.04. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. He told Lend Fair that the checks it 
carried out before providing Mr M with this loan werent reasonable and proportionate and 
such checks would have shown Mr M wasnt in a position to sustainably make the 
repayments. So he thought Lend Fair shouldnt have provided Mr M with this loan and 
upheld the complaint. 
Lend Fair disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So the complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that relevant to my determination of Mr Ms complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did Lend Fair complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr M would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Lend Fair act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Lend Fair complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would 
be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations at the time Lend Fair lent to Mr M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay his loan in a 
sustainable manner. Lend Fair was required to carry out this borrower focused assessment 
in addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Lend Fair had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. In 
practice this meant that Lend Fair had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lend Fair to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr M. The existence of 
a guarantee and the potential for Lend Fair to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr M, for the 
loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Lend Fair checks reasonable and proportionate?Lend Fair has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr M. 
During this assessment, Mr M confirmed that he had a monthly income of £2,100.00 a 
month. Mr M supplied a payslip to verify this. Lend Fair also said that Mr M declared that he 
had monthly expenditure of approaching £1,500.00. This all showed that Mr M was 
comfortably able to afford the monthly payment he was committing to.
Ive carefully thought about what Lend Fair has said. But simply requesting information from 
a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower focused 
assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
Lend Fair knew that Mr M had already two existing guarantor loans and he was supposedly 
borrowing to consolidate one of these as well as a payday loan. But this didnt really tally 
with someone who had a monthly disposable income of around £600. In these 
circumstances, I think that Lend Fair ought to have taken steps to verify Mr Ms monthly 
expenditure. 
I say this while especially mindful of the fact that the rules themselves provide guidance on 
the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness assessments. The rules and guidance 
suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. 
I accept that Lend Fair might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because the 
existence of Mr Ms guarantor might have given it more confidence that the payments would 
be made. But I dont think that these factors meant that Mr M would be able to sustainably 
make the payments.
Indeed I also think that it might also be helpful for me to explain that a less detailed 
affordability assessment, without the need for verification, is only really likely to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively 
small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively 
short period. 
But, in circumstances  such as here - where a the lender is aware of existing high-cost 
lending, the prospective borrower is expected to maintain payments for a longer period of 
time and there is the potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make 
payments, I think its far more likely that any affordability assessment would need to be more 
detailed and contain a greater degree of verification, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan, the cost of the credit, what Lend Fair had 
was aware of at the time and the potential implications for the guarantor, Lend Fair needed 
to get a more in depth understanding of Mr Ms financial position in order to properly assess 
whether hed be able to sustainably make the loan payments he was being asked to commit 
to. 
So as well as asking Mr M about the details of his income and expenditure, I think that Lend 
Fair needed to verify what Mr M said about his expenditure, like it did for his income. It could 
have done this by asking for information such as bank statements, copies of bills, or carrying 
out credit searches. Im not persuaded that expecting the guarantor to disclose anything, 
even if she may have been Mr Ms mother, met this. And when Lend Fair obtained any 
information it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Mr M did have enough funds to 
be able to sustainably make the payments.
 
As theres no evidence that Lend Fair did properly scrutinise the information provided, or that 
it asked Mr M to provide documentary evidence to support the expenditure declarations made, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before providing Mr M with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Lend Fair that Mr M would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Lend Fair that Mr M wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Mr M has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mr M has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Lend Fair mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Lend Fair showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Mr Ms financial circumstances were more likely than 
not to have been at the time.
As Ive already explained, Lend Fair was required to establish whether Mr M could 
sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. So I dont think that Mr Ms loan having been settled in itself indicates that it 
was affordable or sustainably repaid. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in 
order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if 
it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mr M has provided in light of all of this. 
The information Ive been provided with shows that that Mr M was even more heavily 
indebted than hed declared. From what I can see he had a third guarantor loan which was 
taken out in the month previously, was constantly overdrawn and he was borrowing from a 
number of short-term lenders in order to try and meet his commitments to existing creditors. 
So Im satisfied Mr M was unlikely to be able to repay this loan without borrowing further. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr M would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted Lend Fair to the fact that Mr M would not be able to sustainably make the 
repayments to this loan. 
Did Lend Fair act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Lend Fair acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some 
other way.  So I find that Lend Fair didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way.  
Did Mr M lose out as a result of Lend Fair unfairly and unreasonably providing him with his 
guarantor loan?
I think that Mr M ended up paying interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have 
been given in the first place. So I find that Mr M lost out because Lend Fair unfairly provided 
him with this guarantor loan.  
Fair compensation  what Lend Fair needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Ive carefully thought about what Lend Fair should do to put things right in this case. Having 
done so, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ms 
complaint for Lend Fair to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr M paid on this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date
they were made by Mr M to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lend Fair to take off tax from this interest. Lend Fair 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Lend Fair Limited should 
pay compensation in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman