DRN-3390927
The complaint
Miss N complains that MBNA Limited has refused to accept a payment for waived interest 
and charges.
What happened
Miss N says MBNA waived interest and charges on her account from 2018 following 
financial difficulties. She says her position has now improved and would like to repay MBNA 
the interest and charges it waived. She would also like MBNA to donate the money to her 
chosen charity. Miss N would like her credit file amended to show the repaid amount and for 
any adverse information removed from it.
MBNA says it waived interest and charges to help Miss N when she was in financial 
difficulties. It says Miss N repaid the account balance in 2020 and the account is closed. 
MBNA says it will not accept the offer of repayment by Miss B but says she can make a 
payment to a charity if she wishes. It says it correctly reported the account position to the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Miss N brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought MBNA was obliged to help customers in financial difficulties which it did. 
The investigator thought MBNA was obliged to report the accurate position of its customers 
accounts to the CRAs and that it wasnt our role to direct it to accept a payment from Miss N 
or pay that money to charity.
Miss N doesnt accept that view and says MBNA ought to be able to make a donation to 
charity and amend her credit file. She says she doesnt recall being told that by accepting 
help in 2018 would affect her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss N will be disappointed by my decision. I also make clear to Miss N that I can 
only consider her complaint points that have been brought to MBNAs attention and 
investigated by it. I say that as Miss N says that she may not have been told that by 
accepting MBNAs help in 2018 that would affect her credit file. And that is not something 
that MBNA has investigated.
Im satisfied that MBNA is obliged to treat its customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. And that is what appears to have taken place here. I can see that MBNA did 
help Miss N in 2018 by waiving interest and account charges and at no time told Miss N that 
it would expect her to repay those waived amounts. It follows that I dont think in these 
circumstances MBNA is now obliged to accept a payment from Miss N for those amounts or 
is obliged to make a charitable donation as Miss N suggests.
I appreciate the real issue here is that MBNA has reported what took place to the CRAs. But 
Im satisfied that MBNA is obliged as part of its regulatory duties to accurately report the 
position of its customers accounts to the CRAs which is what took place here. I dont think 
MBNA made a mistake or acted unfairly by reporting what took place to the CRAs and I 
have not seen any evidence that MBNA has reported inaccurate information.
The investigator has made clear to Miss N that we are not MBNAs regulator and so its not 
our role to direct it about the information it reports to the CRAs or to direct it that it must 
accept a payment as Miss N would like.
Overall, Im satisfied that MBNA fairly tried to help Miss N in 2018 but is obliged to report 
accurate information to the CRAs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman