DRN-3565228
The complaint
Mr W complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down his private medical 
insurance claim for out-patient consultations.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators findings, and for these reasons:
Mr Ws membership certificate explains that out-patient consultations are covered if 
they directly relate to private day-patient or in-patient treatment (and take place within 
six months of being discharged from hospital).
When Mr W called BUPA, he explained he was experiencing some problems with his 
knee, but he hadnt seen his GP. BUPA arranged for him to have a phone 
appointment with a physiotherapist. The adviser explained how the out-patient 
consultation cover worked. He then made it clear that if the physiotherapist referred 
Mr W to a consultant, BUPA wouldnt cover this cost, but would cover diagnostic 
tests.
As Mr Ws consultations werent related to in-patient or day-patient treatment, Im 
satisfied BUPA declined the claim for his consultations in line with the policy terms. 
Im also satisfied that BUPA made Mr W aware that his consultations wouldnt be 
covered before he incurred any costs.
After Mr Ws initial consultation with his specialist, he needed an MRI. BUPA agreed 
to cover this, in line with the policy terms. Although Mr W thinks it was unreasonable 
for BUPA to refuse to cover his follow-up consultation to interpret the scan results, 
the fact remains that the policy doesnt cover this.
Mr W has raised concerns about the sale of the policy, though as our investigator has 
explained, hed need to raise those concerns with BUPA in the first instance. 
Although Mr W says that BUPA has ignored that part of his complaint, I havent seen 
any evidence of this. If Mr W has raised a complaint with BUPA about the sale of his 
policy and it hasnt provided him with a final response within eight weeks, he may be 
able to bring a new complaint to this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman