DRN-3011883
The complaint
 Mrs D and Mr D complain about their conditional sale agreement with Vauxhall Finance plc 
(Vauxhall). 
Although this concerns a joint agreement, Mrs D has been the main person corresponding 
with our service. So for the purposes of this decision I will mainly refer to her throughout. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr D and his mother, Mrs D, entered into a three year conditional sale 
agreement with Vauxhall for a new car. The cash price of the car was £15,220. The monthly 
payments were £223 followed by a final payment of £6,205.
By January 2017, Mr Ds circumstances changed, he started experiencing financial difficulty 
and he fell behind in the monthly payments. For the next several months, there was a lot of 
back and forth with Mr D and Vauxhall about the arrears. Partial payments were made but 
they werent enough to bring the account up to date. 
In January 2018, the account was transferred to a collections agency who I will refer to as 
company T. A six month repayment plan was set up to clear the arrears in February 2018. 
However company T identified Mr D as being vulnerable and returned the account to 
Vauxhall in March 2018. 
As Vauxhall was having difficulty contacting Mr D, they started to speak to Mrs D about the 
agreement. In June 2018, she told Vauxhall that the car had been involved in an accident 
and it was being repaired at a garage. However she disputed she was responsible for the 
car and the agreement. She complained to Vauxhall and our service because she believed 
the agreement was mis-represented, I will refer to this as complaint one. 
In May 2019, Vauxhall decided to terminate the agreement. At that time, the outstanding 
balance was £9,840. The debt was sold to a third party, which I will refer to as company P. 
Mrs D complained to Vauxhall about how matters had been dealt with, she complained she 
was unhappy the debt had been sold to company P despite being told the account would be 
put on hold while our service investigates complaint one.
Vauxhall said as they were unsuccessful in their attempts to contact Mr D and the account 
was in significant arrears, they had no alternative but to pass the debt to company P and 
under the terms of agreement, they were permitted to do so. 
Unhappy with their response, Mrs D referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They said as it was a joint agreement, Vauxhall were 
entitled to pursue the debt against Mr D and Mrs D. As no money had been received, he 
said it was fair for Vauxhall to sell the debt to company P. He believed Vauxhall had acted 
fairly and they were under no obligation to withhold the debt collection while our service 
investigated complaint one. 
Mrs D disagreed and raised a number of further complaint points. In summary:
- She doesnt believe the loan was affordable given her financial circumstances;
- She doesnt believe Vauxhall made sufficient attempts to contact Mr D;
- She told Vauxhall of the cars location while it was being repaired and they shouldve 
collected it but they made no attempts to do so;
- She had been told on more than one occasion that she wasnt able to discuss the 
agreement as she wasnt party to it and Vauxhall hadnt been clear about her legal 
rights concerning the car;
- She had not been told about the consequences of failing to pay the arrears;
- Vauxhall told her the agreement would be placed on hold while complaint one was 
investigated by our service;
- She wasnt told in advance the debt would be sold to company P.
Although the above complaint points werent initially raised at the outset, I thought it would 
be best for my investigation to look at matters from the start of the agreement and I made 
Vauxhall aware of my intentions and requested further information concerning the above.
In July 2021, I issued my provisional decision outlining my intention to uphold the complaint. 
I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold the 
complaint, Ill explain why. 
As mentioned above, complaint one concerned the sale of the conditional sale agreement. 
An ombudsman looked into matters and determined the loan hadnt been mis-represented 
meaning Mr D and Mrs D were jointly responsible for the loan. Therefore I dont intend to 
discuss this point further nor would it be appropriate to do so. 
At this point, I would like to highlight that Ive summarised what has happened in less detail 
than both parties and Ive done so in my own words. While many points have been raised, 
Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues to reach an overall fair outcome. 
Equally, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is 
here), Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Affordability
Mrs D said at the time the loan was entered into, she couldnt afford it due to her vulnerability 
and the fact she only worked part time, earning around £500 per month. 
When considering whether the loan was affordable, the key questions to consider are:
1. Did Vauxhall complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D 
and Mrs D would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
2. Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr D and Mrs D could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
3. Did Vauxhall act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
There is very limited information about the finance application, according to Vauxhall these 
documents are no longer available. I can see on the agreement that Mr D had been 
employed for six months and Mrs D had been employed for 20 years, there is no other details about their financial or wider circumstances. However Vauxhall said they wouldve 
considered a number of factors such as their income and employment status along with their 
credit files before deciding to lend to Mr D and Mrs D. As they havent provided evidence of 
these checks, I dont know what it showed. Equally, Ive seen insufficient evidence from Mr D 
or Mrs D to suggest the loan wasnt affordable. In light of the limited information, I cant 
safely conclude the lending wasnt affordable. Given this was a joint agreement, meaning the 
financial circumstances of two people wouldve been taken into account, and the fact the 
agreement had been in place for over 12 months before it fell into arrears due to Mr Ds 
change in circumstances, I think its more likely than not the loan was affordable when it was 
taken out. 
Financial difficulty
As the main driver of the car, Mr D was the person making the monthly payments, so I can 
understand why much of the communication about the account was with him initially. 
However as outlined in the agreement, Mr D and Mrs D were both borrowers, therefore they 
were jointly responsible for the loan and the terms of the agreement. 
As mentioned, Mr D started experiencing financial difficulty in early 2017 due to him 
becoming self-employed. In such situations, the relevant guidance set out by the CONC 
rulebook says A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. It also says Where a customer is in default or in 
arrears difficulties, a firm should allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity to 
repay the debt.
In this decision, Ive carefully considered whether Vauxhall had done enough and acted fairly 
given Mr Ds financial difficulties. Based on the account statements, I can see a number of 
partial payments were made in 2017 but this wasnt enough to bring the account up to date. 
Ive seen evidence of the arrears notices and other correspondence that was sent to both Mr 
D and Mrs D so Im satisfied they were both aware of the arrears and the potential 
consequences of failing to clear it. 
By February 2018, the arrears totalled £614 and it was at that point the account was moved 
to company T for collection and a six month repayment plan was set up. I would expect this 
repayment plan to be based on what Mr D and/or Mrs D could afford. At this stage much of 
the communication was solely with Mr D to discuss his financial circumstances. As part of 
the repayment plan, it was agreed Mr D would pay £111 per month and his father to pay 
£223 per month. Its not uncommon for willing family members to assist in times of financial 
difficulty and it would appear Mr Ds father agreed to do so. However I would generally 
expect this to be a short term basis to help bring the account back up to date. As the focus 
appeared to be on Mr D, I would expect Vauxhall to consider his financial circumstances on 
a longer term basis to see if he could reasonably sustain the repayments. I can see they 
attempted to do so by asking him to provide details about his income and expenditure but I 
cant see this was returned by Mr D. 
By March 2018, with the exception of the initial instalment of the payment plan, no further 
payments were made towards the agreement. Therefore it wouldve been clear to Vauxhall 
that the repayment plan wouldnt be followed, the situation was unlikely to change and given 
Mr Ds vulnerability, I think it wouldve been reasonable for them to discuss with Mr D and/or 
Mrs D, the options to end the agreement early to avoid accumulating arrears. 
The two relevant options were voluntary termination (VT) or voluntary surrender (VS). I 
wouldve expected Vauxhall to clearly explain these options, the differences between them 
and their impact in order to allow Mr D and Mrs D to make an informed choice about the most cost effective option about ending the agreement. However based on the evidence, Im 
not persuaded they have fairly done so.
Having reviewed Vauxhalls contact notes, I can see Mrs D was in verbal communication 
with Vauxhall from around April 2018 about the agreement. The contact notes are limited but 
it appears in May 2018 she was told that providing she was in possession of the car, she 
could end the agreement and VS documents were sent to her. I havent been provided with 
a copy of this document so I dont know what it said about VS or any other options.
When the car was taken for repair in June 2018, Mrs D advised Vauxhall of the name and 
contact number for the repair garage. She was told if the excess, subject to the insurance 
claim, was paid she could return the car to Vauxhall. She was also told, if the excess wasnt 
paid, Vauxhall would collect the car and sell it at auction. This suggests Vauxhall were 
considering ending the agreement by VS. Given the location of the car was provided to 
Vauxhall and Mrs D had been asking for advice about how to end the agreement early and 
about the return of the car, it doesnt seem from the contact notes that the two options were 
clearly discussed.
In August 2018, Vauxhalls contact notes show Mrs D was advised that VS and VT werent 
an option as the customers signature would be necessary. However as already outlined, 
Mrs D was the customer as she was the joint borrower so its unclear why she was told this. 
Given this and the fact she was told on at least two occasions that she had no authority to 
discuss the agreement, I can understand why Mrs D said she felt her legal rights and 
position in relation to the agreement werent made clear to her by Vauxhall. 
In May 2019, Mrs D contacted Vauxhall as she had received correspondence from the 
insurance company about the car and she said she believed it was being held in storage. 
Vauxhall asked her to confirm the address of the vehicle to arrange collection but it doesnt 
appear this was provided. However as the car remained Vauxhalls asset, I believe it 
wouldve been fair for them to attempt to contact the insurers to establish the cars location 
so they could retrieve it but there is no evidence this happened. 
Mrs D has complained had Vauxhall collected the car as part of VT or VS when she told 
them about its location, the further arrears couldve been avoided and Im inclined to agree 
with her. I believe it wouldve been fair for Vauxhall to collect the car and end the agreement 
early in June 2018. However this didnt happen and instead the agreement was 
subsequently terminated over a year later in May 2019 with the location of the car unknown 
and an outstanding balance of £9,840 to be paid. 
In light of the above, Ive considered what wouldve happened had Vauxhall offered VT and 
VS at the time of June 2018. 
If the agreement ended by VT, this would mean the return of the car and paying half the total 
amount payable under the agreement plus any other sums due. The agreement states the 
half amount was £8,168. By June 2018, the account statement suggests around £4,700 had 
been paid along with the deposit of £2,300 and £1,000 part exchange. Based on my 
approximate calculation, under VT, I believe the liability may have been less than £500 
subject to any other charges such as damage. 
Voluntary surrender (VS) would mean Mr D and Mrs D would be liable for the full agreement 
amount, that is £16,336. Vauxhall would sell the car and the net sales proceeds would be 
deducted from the outstanding balance. I cant say definitively how much the car wouldve 
sold for had the agreement ended by VS however its a well-established approach of our 
service to refer to motor trade guides to determine a cars market value so I think its 
reasonable to rely on the same when seeing how much the car wouldve been worth in June 2018. Having done so, I found valuations of £7,625, £7,680 and £7,709. In June 2018, the 
outstanding balance was £9,327. Even with the above deductions such as the instalments 
already paid, I believe its unlikely the sale of the car wouldve cleared the outstanding 
balance.
On balance, it seems likely ending the agreement by VT wouldve been the most cost 
effective option as its likely to have had the lower outstanding liability. Im persuaded Mrs D 
wouldve chosen VT had Vauxhall clearly outlined the two options and collected the car in 
June 2018. In my opinion, their failure to do so has meant the agreement was subsequently 
terminated in May 2019 with an outstanding debt of over £9,800 which Mr D and Mrs D now 
have to pay which I dont believe is fair. To put things right, I believe Vauxhall should re-
calculate the outstanding debt liability under this agreement as if it had been terminated by 
VT in June 2018. 
Other
Based on the evidence, I agree there have been times Mrs D has received conflicting 
information from Vauxhall. For example, she was told she didnt have authority to discuss 
the agreement, told the account would be placed on hold while our service was looking into 
complaint one. Its clear Mrs D was asking for advice and support from Vauxhall but I dont 
believe they were clear or did enough given the financial difficulty and this led to the situation 
getting worse. Im sorry to hear about the trouble and upset this has caused Mr D and Mrs D. 
For these reasons, I believe Vauxhall should also pay £200 compensation. 
Response to provisional decision
Both parties were invited to respond my provisional decision. 
Vauxhall said:
- VT was discussed with Mrs D in August 2018 with company T;
- The advance payment was made up of £1,000 part exchange and the manufacturers 
contributions of £1,300; 
- If they were to treat the agreement was being voluntarily terminated, will the car be 
returned to them and will they be able to inspect it for damages. 
Mrs D provided an extract of her credit report from 2016 and the proposed finance 
application in the name of Mr D. She also said:
- She maintained she didnt knowingly enter into the finance agreement;
- The agreement was affordable for Mr D only. She wouldnt have been in a financial 
position to meet payments if he was unable to do so;
- She wanted to know the full details about the repayment plan that was set up with 
company T as she disputed this happened;
- Vauxhall didnt do enough to support Mr D despite him being vulnerable;
- She wasnt able to return the car as it wasnt in her possession but she had told 
Vauxhall of its location. The repair garage wouldnt release the car to her as they said 
she wasnt the legal owner. She believes the car is still being stored there.
- No further money was paid towards the agreement as Vauxhall said the account was 
on hold while complaint one was being investigated by our service;
- She was told she wasnt the legal owner so she was unable to end the agreement by 
voluntary surrender;
- This situation has negatively impacted on the mental, physical and financial 
circumstances of herself and Mr D.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I thank both parties for their responses and Ive carefully considered what has been said. 
Having done so, I still believe the complaint should be upheld.
I would like to reassure Mrs D that Ive fully taken into account her response and evidence 
but I consider much of the points raised are the same or are of a similar nature to what she 
said previously. As I dont consider them to be new points, Im satisfied Ive provided my 
explanations in the provisional decision. As previously mentioned, I havent commented on 
every point raised, instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues to reach an 
overall fair outcome based on the evidence provided. I appreciate the impact this situation 
has had on Mr D and Mrs D and in the event they accept this decision, I hope it allows this 
matter to come to a resolution. 
I note what Vauxhall has said about the advance payment and how this was made up, Mr D 
and Mrs D only provided the £1,000 part exchange and the rest was the manufacturers 
contribution. Although I understand this will impact on the calculations to end the agreement 
by VT, on balance, I still believe its likely to be the most cost effective option and it hasnt 
changed my mind about how I believe this complaint should be resolved. Im still of the 
opinion, Vauxhall didnt treat Mr D and Mrs D fairly and they didnt do enough to support 
them. Im not satisfied the options to end the agreement were clearly explained and Mrs D 
received conflicting information about this which caused much confusion. Mrs D was trying 
to end the agreement and return the car to avoid the accumulating arrears. Had Vauxhall 
collected the car in June 2018, the agreement couldve been brought to an end by the most 
cost effective option, which I consider to be VT thereby avoiding the subsequent termination.
In regard to the car itself, as outlined in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Vauxhall were 
clearly told about its location in June 2018. At the time of writing this decision, the location of 
the car is unknown although I note Mrs D believes its still stored at the repair garage. The 
details of the garage are noted on Vauxhalls contact notes and has been since June 2018. 
On that basis, I believe theyve had sufficient time and information to locate, collect and 
inspect the car. As the car is their asset and they are the legal owners, I will leave it with 
them to decide as to whether they choose to recover it but my decision remains that the 
agreement should be treated as being VTd in June 2018.
I agree with Vauxhall that based on the terms of the agreement, under VT, they are entitled 
to charge for damage to the car if it goes beyond their standards or that of the BVLRAs 
guidelines on reasonable wear and tear. However in the absence of an appraisal of the car 
or evidence of damage, there is currently insufficient evidence for them to enforce such end 
of contract damage charges. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Vauxhall treated Mr D and Mrs D fairly when 
the account fell into arrears due to financial difficulty. Im not satisfied they clearly explained 
the options to end the agreement early when the location of the car was known. Therefore 
Ive decided that Vauxhall should re-calculate the liability under this agreement as if it had 
been terminated by VT in June 2018. They will need to make company P aware of the same 
as the debt has been sold to them. They should update their credit file to reflect the same 
and remove adverse information from June 2018 onwards. Lastly, they should pay £200 
compensation to Mr D and Mrs D for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint.To put things right, Vauxhall Finance plc should:
- Recalculate the amount Mr D and Mrs D owes by treating the conditional sale agreement 
as being ended by voluntary termination in June 2018;
- Amend Mr D and Mrs Ds credit file to reflect the agreement was ended by voluntary 
termination in June 2018 and remove any adverse information about the agreement from 
this date onwards;
- Pay £200 compensation to Mrs D and Mr D for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman