DRN-3910335
The complaint
Ms W complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited wrongly accepted liability for a 
third party car insurance claim.
What happened
Ms W has car insurance underwritten by Advantage. The policy is administered by a broker 
on Advantages behalf. For ease of reference, where the broker has taken actions or 
provided information, Ill refer below simply to Advantage.
She says that in late October 2021, she was approached by a third party in a shop car park 
to say that shed collided with the third partys vehicle when parking her car and caused 
damage to the rear of that vehicle.
Ms W says she has no recollection of any such incident when parking her car. She took 
photographs of the vehicles and a short video on her mobile phone. She says there was no 
visible damage to the third partys car. And she says she advised the third party that the 
shop had CCTV, which might be available to view.
Just over a month later, Advantage were informed of a claim the third party had made to 
their own insurer for repairs to the rear of the vehicle. After some initial investigation, 
Advantage agreed to accept liability and paid the third party insurer for the claim.
Ms W wasnt happy with this. She believes Advantage didnt investigate the matter 
thoroughly. She believes the third party has in effect scammed her. And shes concerned 
about the effect this has had on her no claims discount and current premium - and will have 
on her future insurance premiums.
Ms W complained to Advantage, but they didnt uphold her complaint. They said theyd 
chosen not to contest liability because there was little chance theyd succeed in defending 
the claim if court proceedings were brought by the third party. And they pointed out they 
were entitled to make that decision according to the terms and conditions of Ms Ws policy.
Ms W wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Advantage had been fair to Ms W. She thought theyd failed to 
investigate the claim thoroughly. 
And she asked them to remove any record of the claim (held internally or on external 
databases), reinstate Ms Ws no claims bonus, recalculate her current premiums and refund 
any difference, and pay Ms W £150 in compensation for her trouble and upset. 
Advantage disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important first of all to set out the facts that I believe all parties would accept in this 
case.
Advantage are right to say the policy terms allow them to take over the handling of claims on 
behalf of the policyholder and to decide whether or not to accept or contest liability. This is 
set out very clearly in the section of the policy document about how to make a claim and 
again in the General Conditions Section.
That kind of condition appears in the vast majority of car insurance policies. Its not unfair or 
unreasonable. It allows the speedy resolution of claims without recourse to the courts. And it 
does, as Advantage say, allow the insurer to accept liability, taking into account the evidence 
and the likely outcome if the case were contested, even if the policyholder doesnt agree.
So, theres nothing wrong, in principle, with Advantage accepting liability in this case if they 
believe  on the basis of the available evidence  that theyd likely lose in court if liability 
were contested. And, in principle, they dont need Ms Ws permission or agreement to 
accept liability.
Thats not in dispute here - and so the key question for me is whether Advantage have taken 
all the available evidence properly into account and/or taken all reasonable steps to 
investigate the matter and find any further evidence which might inform their decision.
The photographs taken by Ms W at the scene of the incident clearly show contact between 
the two cars. The rear of Ms Ws car is in contact  at one corner  with the rear of the third 
partys car.
The third party says Ms W reversed her car into contact with their car. Its Ms Ws contention 
that she didnt feel any collision when parking and that the third party later backed their car 
into a position where it was in contact with hers.
Advantage appear to have decided to accept liability because: (a) the photographs show 
contact between the cars; (b) Ms Ws car is beyond the white line separating the two parking 
spaces  in other words, her car is trespassing into the third party cars space; (c) the 
photographs and video provided by Ms W do in fact show minor damage on the third partys 
cars spoiler; and (d) they have a copy of an invoice from a mechanic for repair of the 
relevant part of the third partys car.
I dont think any of those assumption are wrong. And in the absence of any other evidence at 
all, I think Advantage might have been justified in concluding that they should accept liability.
However, I think the real key to resolving this case isnt whether there was contact (there 
clearly was), or who parked badly across the white line (Ms W clearly did), but rather who 
initiated the contact. In other words, did Ms W reverse into the other car or did the other car 
reverse into hers (if that happened, that would be the third partys fault irrespective of how 
Ms W was parked)?
In that context, I think Advantage could have reasonably done more to investigate without 
undue effort or expense. Ill explain why.
First, the shop which owned the car park has CCTV. Ms W says she asked them to provide 
it to her a few days after the accident. They said theyd get back to her but didnt. In the 
absence of a claim, Ms W didnt follow this up. The claim came a month later.
Advantage could have enquired about CCTV footage with the shop. If they had it, that may 
have resolved the issue of which car arrived in the car park first  and so, which driver was likely to have caused the collision. 
It may be that by the time the claim was notified to Hastings, the CCTV footage had been 
deleted. But Advantage didnt ask that question. 
They also didnt go back to the third party insurer and ask why the claim had been delayed 
by just over a month, on the face of it. 
Theres at least a question there about why the third party delayed making the claim 
(assuming they did, and the delay wasnt with the third party insurer). Delaying the claim 
might be seen as potentially an attempt to ensure the CCTV footage was less likely to have 
been retained by the shop for that amount of time.
Advantage might also have asked for the third party insurers comments about why the third 
party appeared to have changed their story about what happened. According to Ms W, she 
was told at the scene that there was a witness to the alleged accident. Later, the third party 
told their insurer there were no witnesses.
Advantage asked Ms W for her dashcam footage. But when she said this wouldnt show 
anything, because there was no collision whilst she was driving, Advantage didnt follow that 
up.
I understand Ms W did say the dashcam footage wouldnt help, but I think Advantage might 
have explained to her that it may have shown whether the third party car was parked in the 
relevant parking space as Ms W drove into the car park. 
Instead, they seem to have concluded that it wouldnt be useful because, pointing forwards 
as it does, it wouldnt show whether the third party car was already behind her as she 
reversed into her space.
I can see from the claim notes and correspondence provided by Advantage that they also 
intended to inspect Ms Ws vehicle. They may have dropped this idea when they considered 
the photographs, which clearly showed contact between the two cars. But it may still have 
been useful to help determine how the collision might have occurred and/or which vehicle 
impacted the other.
I can also see from the contact notes that at least one of the agents at the broker handing 
the claim on Advantages behalf clearly states at one point that they havent done enough 
to investigate Ms Ws assertion that she didnt cause any collision between the two cars. 
That appears to be overridden later by another agent, despite the fact Advantage had done 
nothing more at that point to further investigate the matter.
In short, on balance, Im satisfied that in this case Advantage could and should reasonably 
have done more to try to obtain further evidence before accepting liability on Ms Ws behalf. I 
bear in mind of course that in any court case the onus would have been on the third party to 
show that Ms W had caused the damage to their car.
Putting things right
The third party claim has now been settled, of course. Its likely not practicable to re-open 
any investigation into the claim. Even if it were, the evidence trail will now have gone cold 
given the time elapsed since the alleged accident in the car park in October 2021.
For the reasons Ive given above, I think Advantage have acted unfairly towards Ms W in 
accepting liability for this claim. I say that in full recognition of the fact that theres no real advantage to them in doing so  they are after all paying out on the claim. Nonetheless, Ive 
explained why I think theyve been too quick to accept liability here.
That being the case, I think its only fair they put Ms W back in the position shed have been 
in had they not accepted liability for the claim.
As our investigator suggested, that would mean removing any record of the claim from 
Advantages own database and any shared external databases. 
It would also mean restoring Ms Ws no claim bonus to what it would have been had 
Advantage not accepted liability. And re-calculating Ms Ws premiums since the time of the 
incident and refunding any difference if her premiums would have been cheaper.
I also agree with our investigators view that Ms W has been caused a degree of stress and 
inconvenience by Advantages failings (as detailed above) in this case. 
Shes been worried about the effect this claim will have on her future insurance premiums. 
And shes been frustrated at Advantages unwillingness to carry out further investigations 
into the matter in the way shes suggested. I can see from our correspondence with Ms W 
this has caused her significant distress at the thought that she may have been subject to a 
degree of injustice in the way liability was accepted.
Bearing all of that in mind, I agree with our investigators view that £150 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for Ms Ws trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must:
remove from Ms Ws records - on their own and any external databases - any 
mention of this particular third party claim;
restore Ms Ws no claims bonus  to what it would be assuming this incident had 
never happened;
re-calculate Ms Ws premiums since the time of the incident  again, as if the incident 
had never happened  and refund her any difference from the premiums shes 
actually paid since then; and
pay Ms W £150 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman