DRN-1822714
The complaint
Miss B has complained about a personal loan from Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans. She says the loan was unaffordable and that Everyday Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss B was given a loan of £3,500 by Everyday Loans in February 2019.  This was due to be 
repaid in 18 monthly instalments of around £365. The total amount payable, including 
interest was just over £6,571. I understand the loan is still outstanding. 
When Miss B complained to Everyday Loans about her loan, she also complained about the 
way shed been treated when she found it difficult to meet her loan repayments. And that she 
wasnt allowed to make a formal complaint over the telephone. Everyday Loans accepted it 
had given her some incorrect information and offered Miss B £50 compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience. But Miss B has told us that she is still unhappy and thinks she 
hasnt been treated fairly by Everyday Loans.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Miss Bs complaint. She thought Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided the loan to Miss B. So she asked Everyday Loans to pay Miss B 
some compensation. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to resolve the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Bs complaint.
I think there are several overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss B 
irresponsibly. This means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss B could repay her loans in a sustainable way. The lender was required to carry out a 
borrower focussed assessment each time - sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether 
Miss B could sustainably repay her loans.  In practice this meant that the lender had to 
ensure that making the payments to the loans wouldnt cause Miss B undue difficulty or 
adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer, such as their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications 
of vulnerability or financial difficulty and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Miss B.
Everyday Loans says it carried out some checks before lending to Miss B. This included 
asking for details of her income and expenditure and acquiring a  credit report. It also asked 
for recent bank statements.  Everyday Loans has told us it thinks the checks it carried out 
before agreeing to lend to Miss B were proportionate.  
But I would expect a lender to respond appropriately to the information it gathers when 
assessing a customers application for lending. The information gathered by Everyday Loans 
showed that Miss B had a number of outstanding loans from other lenders; that shed had problems repaying credit in the past and that she had a County Court Judgment that had not 
been satisfied. 
Miss B told Everyday Loans that she was intending to use her loan to consolidate some of 
these debts.  Everyday Loans says that when Miss B had consolidated some of her debt, 
she would have had sufficient disposable income with which to meet her loan repayments. 
However, it seems to me that Everyday Loans is focussing on its calculation of whether the 
loan appeared to be affordable for Miss B on a pounds and pence basis. But as Ive already 
explained, the lender was required to establish whether she could sustainably make her loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Everyday Loans were providing Miss B with an expensive loan, repayable over an extended 
period and the rules and guidance suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable 
directly relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit - relative to the 
customers financial situation.
Taking things in the round,  I think Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have recognised 
from the information it gathered that even after consolidating some of her existing debt with 
her loan, it was likely that Miss B would still have a high level of indebtedness and that its 
loan would most likely increase her indebtedness to an unsustainable level.
I think Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have realised that Miss B was having some 
difficulty managing her financial problems. I think it ought reasonably to have realised that 
Miss B was borrowing to keep up with her ongoing financial commitments,  and that it was 
most likely she would need to borrow elsewhere to repay her loan. I think Everyday Loans 
ought to have realised that it was unlikely that Miss B would have been able to sustainably 
repay her loan. So Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have concluded that it was not 
appropriate to lend to her.
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss B says she is still unhappy about what happened when she tried to complain to 
Everyday Loans about the way it had treated her when she experienced difficulties repaying 
her loan. And that she was told she couldnt make a formal complaint over the telephone. I 
have thought carefully about this. But it seems to me that Everyday Loans has accepted that 
she was given some incorrect information and it has apologised to Miss B and offered her 
some compensation. In the circumstances I dont think Everyday Loans should be asked to 
do anything more about this part of Miss Bs complaint. I havent seen anything which makes 
me think that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other 
way. 
But I think that Miss B had to pay interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have 
been given in the first place. She has lost out because Everyday Loans unfairly provided her 
with this loan. So Everyday Loans should put things right for Miss B.Putting things right
If Everyday Loans sold any outstanding debt payable in respect of Miss Bs loan, it should 
buy it back from the third party, if its able to do so, and then take the following steps. If 
Everyday Loans isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the results outlined below.
Everyday Loans should:
A) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset, and treat 
any repayments made by Miss B as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on this loan. If this results in Miss B having made overpayments then 
Everyday Loans should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, 
to the date the complaint is settled. 
B) If there is still an outstanding balance then Everyday Loans should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss B bearing in mind its obligation to treat her 
positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
C) Everyday Loans should remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss 
Bs credit file. If Everyday Loans has sold the outstanding loan it should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same. Everyday Loans does not have to remove the outstanding 
loan from Miss Bs credit file until it has been repaid, but it should still remove any 
adverse information recorded about this loan.
*HMRC requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest and provide Miss B with a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she requests one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint about the loan and direct Everyday 
Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman