DRN-3541969
The complaint
D complains that Santander UK Plc acted unfairly when it asked D for information about its 
account activity. D is also complaining that the bank replaced Ds relationship manager.
D is a company being represented by its owner, who Ill refer to as Mr H  for ease, Ill refer 
to Mr H mainly in my decision.
What happened
Mr H complained to Santander after becoming unhappy about the banks questioning under 
its know your customer process. Mr H says he was happy to provide information about his 
address and identification but didnt think it was appropriate for Santander to ask him to 
prove his source of revenue and where he was sending Ds funds. Mr H says he wouldve 
been unable to provide sufficient proof as it didnt exist. Mr H says he felt threatened by 
Santanders emails and was worried his access to his account would be blocked.
Mr H is also unhappy that his previous relationship manager was replaced by Santander  
he feels much of the difficulties he faced in responding to Santanders questions wouldve 
been mitigated had his previous relationship manager still been in place. Mr H adds that the 
new relationship manager he spoke to didnt provide a good service, telling him to deal with 
the know your customer process himself and promising a call back within a period that 
wasnt met. 
Santander explained that its questions were put forward so that it could meet its obligations 
under money laundering regulations and explained that its communications were not 
intended to be threatening. The bank provided details on why Mr Hs relationship manager 
had been changed and agreed that the call back timescale was not met  so it paid Mr H 
£100 compensation.
Mr H remained unhappy and asked this service to review his complaint. He wants more 
compensation and wants to be able to end his relationship with Santander without any cost 
or penalty. One of our investigators concluded that Santander acted fairly and in line with the 
relevant rules. The investigator agreed that the compensation Santander had paid was fair. 
Mr H didnt agree and asked for a final decision  so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
Santanders account terms set out that the bank may ask for updates on information it holds 
or may require information at its discretion. The bank says it carried out the know your 
customer process with Mr H to satisfy its obligations set by money laundering regulations. 
I wont go into the specifics of the rules  in summary, it requires Santander to conduct due 
diligence with its customer accounts. Its not for me to instruct Santander how to carry out 
this process as this is for the bank to decide. I can only consider whether the bank treated 
Mr H fairly by doing so. Based on the information Mr H says was asked of him and the 
reasons given by Santander, Im satisfied the bank acted fairly. 
Mr H says he felt threatened by the language used by Santander in the communications it 
sent him. I can understand Mr Hs concerns, given the bank pointed out to him that it may 
suspend his account access if he doesnt provide the information it asked for. Ive seen 
examples of these emails and, in my opinion, the tone and language used isnt threatening. 
And the information about potential account suspension is in line with the banks terms. So I 
cant conclude that Santander acted unfairly here.
Mr H claims there were some questions that required evidence that he couldnt provide. I 
havent seen the exact questions that were asked, so I cant say for certain whether he 
couldve provided the relevant proof. I can see though that Santander did respond to Mr Hs 
queries with guidance and suggestions to help him. And, eventually it seems Mr H was able 
to respond to Santanders questions in full. So Im satisfied that, on balance, the questions 
Santander asked were reasonable. 
Mr H refers to communications he had with a new relationship manager and suggests this 
relationship manager didnt want to deal with his concerns. Ive seen the email chain 
between Mr H and the relationship manager, and I cant see that his concerns were pushed 
aside in the way Mr H suggests. So I cant agree that Santander did something wrong.
Santander already accepts that it didnt live up to the timescale Mr H was given for an 
expected call back. And it paid Mr H £100 compensation because of this. I think this amount 
is fair and within the region of what I wouldve asked the bank to pay, had it not already 
awarded compensation. So I wont be instructing Santander to do anything further in regard 
to this point.
Mr H remains unhappy about Santanders decision to change his relationship manager. 
Santander says this was due to internal structural changes and suggests Mr H still has 
access to a dedicated relationship service. Commercial decisions such as this is something 
this service cannot interfere in. Its for Santander to decide how it conduct its business and 
what steps it takes to meet regulations that apply. As I said above, I can only consider 
whether Mr H has been treated unfairly  I cant see that he has been. So I wont be 
upholding the complaint on this point either.
In summary, it is my decision that Santander fairly applied its know your customer process 
when it asked Mr H for more information. I think the banks communications with Mr H were 
reasonable and it has compensated him fairly for its error. So I wont be asking Santander to 
do anything more.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman