DRN-2955023
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his credit card account without telling 
him and without his consent.
What happened
Mr S says Barclays closed his credit card account in 2020 without telling him and without his 
consent. He says he didnt receive a letter Barclays says it sent him in May or June 2020 
about this and would like it to reinstate his account. Mr S says Barclays actions has caused 
mental and financial inconvenience.
Barclays says it wrote to Mr S on 10 June 2020 about his account and says it gave notice of 
account closure. It says Mr S hadnt used the account since 2016 and it gave 60 days notice 
of the decision. Barclays cant provide the letter sent but says its records confirm it was sent.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays had acted in line with the account terms and conditions by giving Mr S 60 
days notice of the account closure and it wasnt responsible for the safe delivery of the mail. 
The investigator also thought it up to Barclays to decide with whom it had a business 
relationship.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and maintains the closure letter wasnt sent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at the credit card account terms and conditions which I think Mr S 
would have agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that 
either party can end the agreement and that Barclays makes clear that it will give a customer 
60 days notice of an intention to close an account. I have also looked carefully at Barclays 
records and can see that a closure letter was sent to Mr S at his address on 10 June 2020.
So, Im satisfied that Barclays has acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions by 
deciding to close the account and by providing 60 days notice of that decision. I dont think 
its acted unfairly or made a mistake in those circumstances. I appreciate Mr S says he didnt 
receive the letter, but Im satisfied it was sent and I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for 
the safe delivery of the mail. I dont think it matters that Mr S didnt consent to the decision 
as the terms and conditions make clear no such consent is required by either party to close 
an account.
Im satisfied that Barclays is entitled to review its customers accounts and, in circumstances 
where Mr S hadnt used the account in four years, was reasonably entitled to close it. I also 
think Mr S ought reasonably to be aware that. as he hadnt used the account is a significant 
time period, there was a risk of Barclays closing it. And if he wished to keep it open, could 
have told Barclays that some time before.
I dont think Mr S has suffered any financial loss as a result of the closure decision and I 
dont think he would have been caused any real inconvenience, as the account hadnt been 
used in some years.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays has acted inline with agreed account terms and conditions and 
am satisfied the closure letter was sent even if Mr S didnt receive it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman