DRN-4048930
The complaint
Mrs S complains Lendable Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs S fell victim to an investment scam in early 2022. As part of the scam, Mrs S was led to 
believe she needed to pay fees and charges to withdraw funds from her investment. She 
didnt have the funds to meet these costs and so, over a space of three weeks, Mrs S and 
her husband applied to borrow £156,450 over 11 loans with several different lenders. 
In April 2022 Mrs S applied to Lendable for, and was given a loan for £10,250, which was 
repayable over a period of 60 months. Mrs S told Lendable that the purpose of the loan was 
debt consolidation. The repayments were around £267 a month, and in total Mrs S agreed to 
pay back about £16,044 over the five years, after interest and a lending fee was added. 
Mrs S says she was groomed and coached by the scammers on how to apply for the loans. 
Mrs S thinks Lendable should have checked her circumstances more thoroughly before 
agreeing to lend because with better checks, Lendable ought to have seen she could not 
afford this loan.
Lendable says it completed appropriate checks before it approved lending to Mrs S and 
these showed the borrowing was affordable. It also ran checks to verify Mrs S details 
including her name, address and bank details and sent both email and text authentication 
messages. These didnt lead it to believe the loan application wasn't made by Mrs S.
Lendable didnt uphold Mrs S complaint but in an act of forbearance given her predicament, 
it agreed to only collect the loan principal and forgo its lending fee and interest. It also 
agreed to accept a reduced repayment whilst her banks continue to look into the matter and 
should Mrs S need more time to seek debt advice.
Unhappy with the response Mrs S got from Lendable, she brought her complaint to this 
service. Mrs S wants Lendable to forgo collecting on the loan altogether. Our investigator 
considered the complaint. He concluded that with reasonable and proportionate checks, 
Lendable would have considered Mrs S able to sustainably afford this loan.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigator and because an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
Mrs S loan with Lendable is her second in the chain of loan applications and this decision is 
looking only at this one loan agreement. I am aware Mrs S (and her husband) have referred 
other cases concerning some of the other loan applications and these shall be looked at 
under separate case references.
In my provisional decision I explained that:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs S complaint. 
Having done all of that, I have reached the same conclusions as those reached by our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Lendable needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs S 
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mrs S would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. There is no set list of what 
reasonable and proportionate checks should look like, rather greater thoroughness might be 
reasonably expected where a person on a lower level of income may be borrowing a high 
sum, or taking out borrowing over a longer period which could potentially cost more in the 
longer term.
Lendable did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. Lendable has said 
Mrs S would not have been offered the loan if she had not passed its checking criteria. It 
explained that part of its checks involved reviewing the applicants credit profile to assess 
their income and expenditure, and it also used information from Mrs S active credit file. 
Mrs S was borrowing a sizeable amount over a significant term, but Mrs S was also in 
permanent employment on a good salary  she had declared she took home on average 
£3,181 a month when applying for the loan. Lendable used an automated check of her 
current account turnover to validate the declared income. I have some concerns about 
Lendable only relying on a credit reference agency data tool to analyse Mrs S current 
account turnover data and validate the income she had declared. I say this because Mrs S 
current account was held jointly with her husband and both of their salaries were mandated 
to the one account. Ive noted the actual data returned included an income confidence factor 
score of 6, which I understand can include joint incomes. So Lendable ought either to have 
carried out further checks to ensure that Mr S income was available (also taking account of 
his expenditure) or to have validated Mrs S income by another means.
I have reviewed Mrs S current account statements and seen that her average take home 
pay between January and March 2022 had been around £2,885 a month  £296 less than 
the amount Lendable used in its affordability check. But for reasons Ill continue to explain, 
Im not convinced that, in this case, the overstated income meant Lendable shouldnt have 
lent.
I agree with the investigator that, given the information it had to hand, its checks could have 
gone further still.  For example, noting the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation, I think 
Lendable could have got a better understanding of which of her debts Mrs S intended to 
repay using the loan funds. I dont think its approach of apportioning balance reductions and 
reduced repayments in line with the amounts Mrs S owed at the point of application was a 
fair assumption to make. I say this because Mrs S was repaying an unsecured loan and it 
was not a given that the contractual repayment would reduce on receipt of an overpayment. 
But had Lendable questioned Mrs S about which debts she intended to repay, I doubt it 
would have got a more reliable understanding, given debt consolidation was never the true 
purpose for the loan. This being so, it still would have been reasonable for Lendable to have 
assumed her existing debt repayments would reduce. For example, if it had assumed Mrs S 
would use the loan funds to reduce her credit card debt, mirroring the approach Lendable 
took to estimate this commitment would reduce her existing repayments by £308 a month. 
Lendables submissions note that at the time, Mrs S had no adverse credit showing on her 
credit file and that she was managing payments to her creditors. Ive seen Mrs S had taken 
out a loan four days earlier but as it would not yet have shown on her credit file, I cant fairly 
place any weight on this information. The investigator also looked into national averages for 
living expenses and the figure he arrived at meant Mrs S would have around £570 at her disposal (not accounting for the £296 discrepancy between her actual take home pay and 
the figure used in Lendables assessment). During the time since the investigator issued his 
findings, Mrs S has shared more details about her households monthly non-discretionary 
spending, which totalled around £1,500  it was made up of:
Food and household shopping £300.00
 Council tax £222.00
 Utilities £182.00
 Insurances £216.00
 Phone/TV/Internet £175.00
 Travel (including petrol) £190.00
 Childcare £200.00
 Healthcare £11.00
I have taken a cursory look at Mrs S bank statements and it gives me sufficient confidence 
in the figures she has provided. Noting her bank account was joint with Mr S, I think its fair 
to say these were split equally between Mrs and Mr S. So, taking account of her share of the 
non-discretionary spending, her share of the joint mortgage and her other credit 
commitments, her existing average outgoings came to £2,582 a month. This left Mrs S with 
£302 a month before the new loan repayment.
 
So, taking account of the savings Mrs S could realise by using the loan funds to reduce her 
credit card debt  she would pay £267 and save £308 a month  I still think it would be 
reasonable to conclude Mrs S was able to sustainably afford the repayments for the 
proposed loan.
Lendable has agreed to forgo its lending fee and interest charges, requiring Mrs S to only 
repay the capital she borrowed. It also recognises that the contractual repayment may still 
cause Mrs S hardship in her current predicament and has offered further support by way of a 
reduced payment plan while she seeks debt advice/her banks continue to investigate the 
matter. I think this is fair and is in keeping with the actions I would expect Lendable to take if 
I were to find the lending had been irresponsible, which isnt the finding Ive reached.  
Finally, Ive considered whether Lendable ought to have identified Mrs S application was in 
connection to the investment scam she had fallen victim to. But the evidence from the time 
does not support the application being less than genuine  for example, the funds were 
released to a bank account which Lendable had confirmed as belonging to Mrs S. And Mrs S 
told Lendable the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation when she had other plans for 
the funds. So, I dont think it is reasonable to suggest Lendable needed to do more to 
prevent Mrs S loss.
In summary, while I think Lendable could have done more at the time of the application to 
satisfy itself Mrs S was able to sustainably repay this loan, reviewing the information we 
have about Mrs S circumstances shows if proportionate checks had been carried out, it 
would still have been reasonable to lend to her.
I am sorry to hear of the stresses and strain this episode has placed on Mrs S and her 
family. My findings are in no way meant to diminish her circumstances, but my role is to 
decide what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to resolve this complaint and 
Im unable to say Lendable was wrong to lend to Mrs S based on the submissions and 
evidence available to me. I would only remind Lendable about its obligations to treat Mrs S 
fairly and offer due forbearance should she now find herself in financial hardship. And 
equally, Mrs S may also wish to seek independent debt advice.Responses
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 8 March 2023.
Lendable acknowledged my provisional findings and it didnt have anything further to add.
Mrs S replied and in summary, she said:
She did not benefit from loan because the funds were lost to an investment scam.
Flaws with the reporting of information to the credit reference agencies allowed the 
scammers to take advantage of and manipulate Mrs S into taking out loans in quick 
succession.
Lendable didnt question her about her financial commitments including a second charge 
mortgage.
Mrs S and her husband cant afford to repay the loans they took out as part of the scam 
and they are concerned about the impact this may have on their future mortgage needs 
unless the loans are written off.
Mrs S also submitted a copy of a letter from trading standards addressed to this services 
chief ombudsman and to the chief executive of the Financial Conduct Authority. The letter 
echoes much of Mrs S comments. It also speaks more widely about the delay in reporting of 
information between the credit reference agencies and lenders and how the absence of real-
time information helped to facilitate the scam Mrs S fell victim of.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the devastating impact this matter has had, and is having on, Mrs S and 
her family. I dont wish to cause them any further distress  but I must give my decision 
based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable, taking into account all of the evidence in 
the circumstances relating to this individual case. 
Ive considered Mrs S submissions carefully, but Im not persuaded to reach a different 
outcome to my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Both Mrs S and trading standards have commented on the delay in reporting of information 
between the credit reference agencies and lenders and how the absence of real-time 
information helped to facilitate the scam she fell victim of. But my decision is confined to 
considering the regulated activities Lendable is responsible for  and it is not responsible for 
how other businesses report information to credit reference agencies nor the activities of the 
credit reference agencies. So, regrettably, I cannot consider their comments as part of this 
decision, which can only deal with Mrs S complaint of irresponsible lending by Lendable.
Mrs S pointed out that Lendable didnt question her about her financial commitments 
including a second charge mortgage (secured loan). But as I explained in my provisional 
decision, Lendable got such information from Mrs S active credit file. I think it is reasonable 
to say, given the extent of the coaching Mrs S received from the scammers on what 
information to give to the lender, that the information showing on her credit file at the time 
would have been the more reliable account. I note Mrs S has pointed to Lendable failing to take account of a secured loan. Having 
studied both the copy of credit file Lendable used whilst assessing her application and the 
copy of her credit file Mrs S has submitted alongside her complaint, I note Mrs S active 
secured loan isnt shown on either of them  only her settled secured loan accounts, with the 
last one showing as settled in May 2021. So, I cannot reasonably find that Lendable ought to 
have taken account of Mrs S repayment towards the secured loan when its lender wasnt 
reporting the details to the credit reference agency Lendable was relying on to make its 
decision to lend. And it wasnt unreasonable for Lendable to base its assessment of Mrs S 
credit commitments using the information showing on its search of her credit file and the 
information Mrs S gave it.
Mrs S says she did not benefit from the loan because the funds were lost to an investment 
scam. As I explained in my provisional decision, it was not foreseeable to Lendable how 
Mrs S intended to use the loan funds  it was working on the premise Mrs S intended to 
consolidate her existing debts, as she had declared during her application. Mrs S did have 
the benefit of the loan funds insofar as they were paid to her bank account, albeit she then 
transferred and lost the money to the scam. In the circumstances, I cannot reasonably hold 
Lendable responsible for all or part of her loss to the scam or tell it to write-off the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint or make an award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman