DRN-2920850
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to turn down a claim for 
malicious damage and theft made under their Landlords insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs S discovered evidence of malicious damage at a property 
they rent out. They notified AXA of the claim, and AXA appointed a loss adjuster to 
investigate the damage.
An appointment was made for the loss adjuster to attend the property in early March 2020. 
Mr and Mrs S were then told that the appointment was cancelled. 
Mr and Mrs S say the loss adjuster then turned up at the time of the cancelled appointment 
with no notification. The loss adjuster completed a reported in which it was noted that the 
property had already been stripped out and the claimed items had been disposed of.
AXA was unable to validate the loss, so it requested further evidence from Mr and Mrs S and 
the police. It told Mr and Mrs S that it was unable to validate the photos they had provided of 
the damage upon discovery, as they didnt show that the items were beyond repair.
Mr and Mrs S said that the items being claimed for werent salvageable; the kitchen doors 
had been ripped off and there was water damage to the kitchen units and flooring. They said 
theyd stripped the property due to safety concerns and wanted the items replaced like for 
like.
In October 2020, AXA wrote to Mr and Mrs S and explained its reasons for turning down the 
claim. It said it wasnt satisfied with the reasons given for the disposal of the items; it couldnt 
see that there was a tenant lined up to move in, and it hadnt had an opportunity to assess 
the damage items for repair, reinstatement, or replacement.
Mr and Mrs S complained to AXA. They felt they had been treated unfairly and were 
unhappy about the length of time taken for AXA to reach its decision. And they said they 
retained the right to get the property ready for new tenants to mitigate the loss of rental 
income.
AXA provided its final response to Mr and Mrs S on 13 October 2020. It maintained its 
decision to turn down the claim and said its decision was in line with the policy terms as 
Mr and Mrs S hadnt complied with the claim conditions.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with AXAs response and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. They concluded that AXA had acted fairly in turning down the claim because it 
hadnt been given a reasonable opportunity to validate the loss and its liability under the 
policy. And they concluded that AXA couldnt be held responsible for the delays in obtaining 
further evidence from the police.
Mr and Mrs S dont agree. They say that if the loss adjuster had made a further appointment, 
they wouldve waited before stripping out the property. And they say that some of the items 
in dispute were still at the property when the loss adjuster visited, so the adjuster wouldve 
seen the damage being claimed for.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first checked the terms and conditions for Mr and Mrs S policy. Under the section titled 
Claims Conditions, it states: 
What you must not do 
Dispose of any damaged items as we may need to see them
So I am satisfied there are policy terms which explain what needs to happen in the event of 
a claim being made. And that it is a condition precedent to liability. But I think the issue here 
is whether AXA made Mr and Mrs S aware of these terms when they raised the claim. 
I say this because whilst I dont think these terms stand out particularly compared to other 
policy terms in the booklet, they are significant terms for a claim involving damaged 
contents.
To answer this question Ive listened to the call Mr S made when he first notified AXA of the 
loss. And having considered it, I think AXA did enough in highlighting this term to Mr S. The 
call handler explains twice on the call that a loss adjuster needs to attend the property before 
any work starts, and Mr S doesnt dispute this.  So I think AXAs position here was clear.
Mr and Mrs S have said that the items being claimed for required a like for like replacement. 
But AXAs policy terms allow it to repair, reinstate or replace the damaged property. And 
one of the reasons for the loss adjusters visit to the property would have been to decide 
which category the damaged items fell into. But because the property had been stripped 
prior to the visit I do think this has prejudiced AXAs position to validate the claim.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs S testimony about their reasons for stripping out the property. 
But having looked at the overall timeline of events, Im not persuaded that the cancelled loss 
adjuster appointment was sufficient to proceed against AXAs instruction. 
The evidence shows that Mr and Mrs S hired a skip on the same day they notified AXA of 
the claim, before the police had been notified, and with the knowledge that the loss adjuster 
appointment was still required. And Mr S has confirmed in his statement that a local 
contractor completed the strip out job a couple of days later. Therefore, I think its more likely 
than not that the arrangements to strip out and dispose of the damaged items were made 
independently, and not unduly influenced by the date of the loss adjusters visit.
To be clear, Ive not seen anything which wouldve put AXA on notice that Mr and Mrs S 
were planning to dispose of the items so soon after notifying it of the claim. So I dont think 
AXA had a fair opportunity to validate the claim.Mr and Mrs S have said some of the items being claimed for were still at the property when 
the loss adjuster attended. Ive considered the loss adjusters report and photos and Im 
afraid I cant agree  I cant see that any of the items being claimed for remained in the 
property in the photos. And Ive seen nothing to dispute the loss adjusters conclusion that 
the property had been completely stripped out. So on balance, I am persuaded the items 
had been disposed of by the time the loss adjuster visited.
Ive checked the policy to see what remedies were available to AXA if the terms arent 
complied with. The policy states that AXA can refuse to deal with part or all of any relevant 
claim. So I think AXAs decision to turn down the claim is reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive next considered the overall time taken for AXA to turn down the claim. Mr and Mrs S are 
unhappy it took as long as it did for AXA to reach this decision. Having reviewed everything, 
I can see that due to the lack of evidence to validate the claim AXA was required to make a 
number of further enquiries which included requesting a copy of the police report. And it was 
the obtaining of the police report which caused the majority of the delay here.
I can see AXA chased for a copy of the police report frequently, and it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to hold it responsible for the actions of a third-party. I can also see that 
once the report was received, AXA progressed the claim and communicated its decision to 
Mr and Mrs S promptly. 
I havent found any evidence of avoidable delays in the claim, so Im not going to require 
AXA to do anything further here.
For the reasons given above, I find that AXA has assessed Mr and Mrs S claim fairly and in 
line with the terms of their policy, so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman