DRN-4256180
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that, because they were given incorrect information about the window 
within which they could select a new interest rate products for their mortgages with 
Nationwide Building Society, they missed out on lower interest rates. By the time they 
applied, interest rates had risen. 
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs H want Nationwide to switch their mortgages onto the 
lowest five-year fixed rate that was available on 1 September 2022, and to improve its 
customer service and feedback.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs H being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have two mortgage accounts with Nationwide taken out in March 2013. Both 
mortgages were on a 1.99% fixed rate which were due to expire on 31 January 2023. At that 
point, the primary mortgage would have had about four years remaining on its term, and the 
secondary just over five years remaining.
Mr and Mrs H say that on 25 June 2022 they were told  incorrectly  that they could apply 
for a new rate three months before expiry of the existing rates, so from October 2022. 
However, when they spoke to Nationwide in October 2022 they learned that the switching 
window was six months, that it has just changed, and before that it had been five months, 
with the earliest start date for the new rate up to three months before the end of the existing 
rate.
Mr and Mrs H complained. They said that if theyd known in June 2022 that they could have 
reserved a rate at that point, they would have done so. By the time they came to apply, 
interest rates had increased.
Mr and Mrs H paid off the balance on the primary account and in October 2022 switched the 
other part of the mortgage onto a new five-year fixed rate.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint, saying that it hadnt been able to trace a call 
recording on 25 June 2022. Its records showed that this call had been diverted to a branch, 
and so it wouldnt have been recorded. Nationwide said that in June 2022 the switching 
window was five months, so Mr and Mrs H could only have begun a new application from 
September 2022. 
Nationwide noted that Mr and Mrs H had, in fact, tried to switch their mortgage accounts 
online in September 2022, and also tried several times in October 2022 before speaking to 
Nationwide on 10 October 2022. 
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened. In relation to the September 2022 application, Mrs H said that she had just gone 
online to check what rates were available following the turmoil in the financial markets 
following the mini-budget on 23 September 2022, but didnt go through with an application 
because she believed she could only apply for a new rate within three months of the end of 
the previous rate.
The investigator was satisfied that Nationwides switching policy was clear from its website, 
and in the absence of a call recording to confirm that Mr and Mrs H had been told that the 
switching window was only three months, the investigator wasnt persuaded that the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators findings, and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Theyve made some further points, which I summarise below.
Mrs H said shed only logged onto Nationwides portal in September 2022 to track interest 
rates, not to apply for a rate swap. There was no reason for them to have applied for a swap 
at that time because theyd been told they couldnt do so. Mr and Mrs H were also unhappy 
that the call on 25 June 2022 hadnt been recorded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence in a case is incomplete or inconclusive, I have to reach my decision 
based on the available evidence. In this case, the missing evidence is an eight-minute call 
made by Mrs H to a Nationwide branch on 25 June 2022. Mrs H says that it was during this 
call she was told that she could only apply for a new rate three months before the end of the 
current mortgage product.
Whilst I can understand Mr and Mrs Hs frustration that there is no recording of this call, 
there is no requirement for all calls to be recorded. Generally service centres will record 
calls, but in a branch with a less sophisticated phone system, its not unusual for calls not to 
be recorded. Im unable to tell Nationwide how to run its business, and so this isnt 
something I can tell Nationwide to change.
In June 2022 Nationwide allowed a rate to be reserved up to five months before the existing 
product ended, with the earliest start date up to three months before the end date. Without 
the call recording, I cant say definitely what Mrs H was told, but its possible she was told 
about the three-month start date and mistakenly thought this was the date when a new rate 
could first be applied for. 
But in any event, Mr and Mrs H couldnt have applied for a new rate in June 2022, as they 
still had more than six months before the expiry of their existing products and so would have 
been subject to an early repayment charge if theyd tried to switch then. At this point I will 
note that Nationwides website has comprehensive information about switching mortgage 
products, with information and guides to help customers. By logging into their Mortgage 
Manager, Mr and Mrs H would have been able to see when they could have switched and 
what rates would have been available.Ive noted what Mrs H has said about the reason why she logged onto Nationwides system 
in September 2022  that it was only to check interest rates. Mrs H said there was no point 
applying for a product switch, as she didnt think she could have one at that point.
However, Nationwides records show something different; Mr and Mrs H logged onto the 
switcher system on 26 September 2022 and tried to switch both mortgage accounts onto a 
new rate, but werent able to do so because the remaining length of the term of the main 
mortgage was too short. The system also recorded two further attempts to do this on 
4 October 2022 and 9 October 2022. It was only on 10 October 2022 after speaking to 
Nationwide that the product switch went through for one account only. Mr and Mrs H 
subsequently paid off the relatively small balance on the main part of the mortgage.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs H were only checking interest rates 
when they logged onto Nationwides switcher system on 26 September 2022, given the 
activity recorded by Nationwide for this date and for the two further switching attempts on 
4 October 2022 and 9 October 2022. 
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs H missed the opportunity to switch their mortgage onto a 
lower rate before the mini-budget. I can understand how frustrating this must have been for 
them. But weighing up the evidence provided by both parties, Im unable to conclude that 
Nationwide provided Mrs H with incorrect or misleading information during the call on 
25 June 2022. Given this, it would not be fair or reasonable for me to order Nationwide to 
switch the mortgage onto a lower rate of interest that might have been available had an 
earlier application been made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
discussion about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman