DRN-3347117
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy because Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway registered a default 
on his credit file.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Moneyway. 
In or around March 2020 Mr Bs account fell into arrears. Moneyway wrote to Mr B to advise 
him that hed missed a payment and asked him to make contact. Moneyway didnt hear from 
Mr B and further payments were missed. In April 2020 a default notice was issued and a 
default was registered on Mr Bs credit file.
Moneyway sent a letter before action to Mr B warning that the agreement might be 
terminated because of the arrears. It didnt hear back from Mr B so the agreement was 
terminated in May 2020.
Following termination of the agreement Mr B contacted Moneyway. He said hed moved 
address and hadnt received the letters. He also said he wasnt aware that his direct debit 
payments had stopped.
In response, Moneyway said the default notice had been issued correctly and that it was Mr 
Bs responsibility to notify it of any change of address.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the company. She said there wasnt any evidence that 
Moneyway had terminated the agreement unreasonably. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said he didnt accept that Moneyway had been unable to contact him 
and said it could have used other methods of contact. Mr B said he didnt know that his 
direct debits had stopped.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the hire purchase agreement. This says 9at section 11) that if a consumer 
changes address, they must inform Moneyway immediately. Mr B has said that he forgot to 
inform Moneyway that he had moved. I understand that Mr B had other priorities in his life at 
the time he moved address. However, the agreement is clear about Mr Bs obligation in this 
respect, and in failing to notify Moneyway of his new address, Mr B has breached the 
agreement. Further, and taking into account the circumstances of this complaint, Mr Bs 
failure to notify Moneyway of his change of address meant that they continued to write to him 
at the address on record. Im unable to say that Moneyway didnt anything wrong when it did 
this.
Ive looked at the arrears letters, the default notice and the termination notice. I can see that 
all of these were sent to Mr B at the address on record. Moneyway has said that Mr B 
stopped making monthly payments in March 2020.  Ive looked at the account and I can see 
that no payments were made to the account in March, April and May 2020. Given that the 
account had fallen into arrears, I cant say that Moneyway did anything wrong by sending 
arrears letters and ultimately issuing a default notice and terminating the account.
Mr B has said that it was Moneyway who stopped his direct debit. Ive looked at all the 
available information, but I havent seen anything to suggest that this was the case. I cant 
see that there would be any benefit to Moneyway in stopping payments.
Mr B has said that he thinks it was unfair that Moneyway didnt try to contact him by an 
alternative method. He says that in the past Moneyway has contacted him by text and email.
I understand Mr Bs strength of feeling here and I appreciate that Moneyway might have had 
other methods by which it could have contacted him. However, Moneyway isnt obliged to try 
other methods once it has sent a letter to the address on record. Even if Mr B didnt receive 
the arrears letters and default notice, I think its likely that he would have noticed that the 
payments to Moneyway hadnt been taken from his account for March, April and May. So, I 
think there was an opportunity for Mr B to contact Moneyway to discuss the account.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Moneyway has acted unfairly here, or 
that it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman