DRN-3044229
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (trading as ETI) unfairly turned 
down their claim following the cancellation of their holiday.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out an annual travel insurance policy underwritten by ETI, in January 
2020. Theyd booked flights for a holiday abroad departing in April 2020. 
On 12 March 2020, Mr and Mrs R cancelled their holiday, following medical advice from their 
GP that Mrs R shouldnt travel due to her being vulnerable to the risk of contracting Covid-
19. 
Mr and Mrs R received a refund of the taxes and surcharges from the airline, but not the 
airfare. So they made a claim on their travel insurance. 
Mrs Rs GP completed a medical certificate for the purpose of the insurance claim, providing 
the following information. 
nature of the illness / injury which makes cancellation of this trip medically 
necessary and / or prevents travel: 
Mitral Valve repair circa 2011
Has the patient suffered from the same or similar condition in the past? If YES, if the 
present illness, in your opinion, resulted in any way to the past condition? 
Mitral valve repair 2011. Patient normally well. Annual review by cardiologists. 
Concern  vulnerable  coronavirus. 
Patient normally well. History of mitral valve condition and repair only of 
travel concern due to vulnerability if exposed / contracts corona virus.
In your opinion was cancellation medically necessary? If YES, was it solely due to 
the above condition? 
Yes. Patient potentially vulnerable due to long term condition. 
The cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Rs policy states:
We will pay You up to the Sum insured in respect of loss of deposits or cancellation 
charges levied for pre- booked transport and accommodation in the event of cancellation 
of the entire Trip prior to its commencement as a result of travel being prevented by:- 
1)Death, injury or illness as certified by a Medical Practitioner, summons for jury 
service or as a compulsory witness in a court of law (other than in the line of duty) 
to be undertaken during the Period of Insurance, compulsory redundancy 
qualifying for payment under the current Redundancy Legislation and notified 
after the date or effecting the Insurance, of (a) You.
And within the same section under the heading what is not covered the policy states: 
Any claim arising from a medical condition existing prior to the payment of the 
insurance premium or from any recurrent condition where a Medical Practitioner 
would have advised the person travelling not to travel.  
ETI declined Mr and Mrs Rs claim for the cost of their cancelled flights. It said this was 
because there was no cover under the policy for the circumstances of their cancellation. 
Mr and Mrs R complained. ETI maintained the risk of a potential illness is not an insured 
event under the policy. So it thought its decision to decline the claim had been correct. 
Unhappy with ETIs response, Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to this service. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
Mr and Mrs Rs policy provides cover for the costs of pre-booked transport in the event that a 
trip is cancelled before it starts, due to the illness of one of the insured travellers. 
Mrs Rs GP related her vulnerability to Covid-19 to her previous heart surgery. So Mr and 
Mrs R cancelled their trip on that advice. Not because Mrs R was unwell with an illness at 
that time, which prevented her from travelling. So I thought the circumstances of the claim 
werent covered under the policy terms. 
I also thought about whether or not I thought the claim should be paid on a fair and 
reasonable basis. The medical certificate completed by Mrs Rs GP doesnt contain any 
further information about what the particular risks to her could be, or an explanation as to 
why shed be more at risk if she travelled than if she had remained in the UK. It shows her 
heart surgery took place some considerable time ago, in 2011. And her GP stated she is 
normally well, and only has an annual review with a cardiologist. So having taken that into 
consideration, I was satisfied ETI had not acted unfairly in declining the claim.
The response to my provisional decision 
Mrs R said she had declared her heart condition and paid an additional premium. And she 
asked whether I had taken this into consideration.
ETI didnt make any comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in light of the response.I was aware Mrs R had declared her heart condition and paid an additional premium for 
cover. However, as I said in my provisional decision, I noted that the cancellation reason 
was due to Mrs R being vulnerable to the risk of contracting Covid-19, because of her 
previous heart surgery. Not because she had an illness at that time, which prevented her 
from travelling. Had Mrs R been unable to travel due to being unwell with an illness covered 
by the policy, I would have expected the claim to be paid. But this was not the case here. 
 
The point Mrs R raised hasnt changed my mind, so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint against ERGO Reiseversicherung AG. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman