DRN-1044939
 Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage in 2003. Mr B says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr B that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr B says it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.
Nationwide has sent us a copy of the application summary for Mr Bs mortgage. This 
included a section on PPI saying that Mr B would like to take it out. And Mr B signed the 
summary to say he agreed with it. Nationwide also sent us a product confirmation document 
for Mr Bs mortgage, which also had a section on PPI and said Mr B had decided to take it 
out. And Mr B signed to say he agreed to it.
The mortgage offer letter for Mr Bs mortgage also said the PPI cover would start on the date 
of the mortgage and said how much it would cost.
Based on the evidence I have, I think Nationwide did make it clear to Mr B that he had a 
choice about the PPI. And that Mr B chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen clear evidence that Nationwide gave Mr B any personalised advice about the 
PPI, so I dont think it recommended it to him. This means Nationwide didnt have to check if 
the PPI was right for Mr B. But it did have to make sure he got the information he needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy 
couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And it 
wouldve meant he didnt need to rely on his family or any savings he had to make his 
mortgage repayments if he wasnt earning. So it would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr Bs property couldve been at risk 
if hed failed to make his repayments. So I think he couldve found the protection the policy 
offered appealing. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Mr B off taking it out.
My Final DecisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman