DRN-2882071
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy that Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund several cash machine 
withdrawals, that she says she didnt authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here.
In December 2020 Mrs Es debit card was used to make six cash machine withdrawals that 
she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise. The total amount withdrawn was £850. 
RBS looked into the matter but concluded that either Mrs E or someone known to her with 
her consent had been responsible for the cash withdrawals. It said her genuine card had 
been used together with the correct PIN. As the card was still in Mrs Es possession and 
there was no point of compromise for her PIN, it didnt agree to a refund. However, it did 
accept, the service Mrs E received fell short. It apologised and in recognition of the trouble 
and upset credited her account with £50 by way of compensation. It later increased its 
compensation offer by a further £50. 
Mrs E was dissatisfied with RBS response and referred the matter to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. In summary, he said, on balance, considering all the evidence, he was 
persuaded that Mrs E or someone with her consent authorised the disputed cash 
withdrawals. So he didnt think RBS had reached an unfair conclusion in holding Mrs E 
liable. He also thought the total compensation awarded for poor service was fair.  
Mrs E maintained that she didnt make the withdrawals and has asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I understand Mrs Es strength of feeling on this matter and I know this will 
come as a disappointment, so Ill explain why. 
Firstly, as I wasnt present at the time the disputed withdrawals took place I cant know for 
certain what happened. So in cases like this I have to make my decision on the balance of 
probability  I have to determine what I think is most likely to have happened, based on all 
the available evidence. 
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the transactions, relevant regulations and 
evidence. Both Mrs E and RBS have read the investigators view, so I wont repeat every 
detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision.
Generally, RBS can hold Mrs E liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not, she made the withdrawals herself or allowed them to be made. So 
Ive carefully considered the evidence and thought about everything both Mrs E and RBS 
have told us. And from what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude Mrs E, or 
someone with her consent, made the withdrawals. I say this for the following reasons; 
- On 6 December 2020, a cash machine retained Mrs Es debit card. She reported this 
to RBS the same day. The card was cancelled, and a new replacement card was 
sent and received by Mrs E. Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that it 
was the genuine replacement card in Mrs Es possession and its corresponding PIN 
which were used to carry out the disputed withdrawals. So whoever carried out the 
withdrawals was able to do so because they had both Mrs Es card and knew her 
PIN. 
- Mrs E says the card was in her possession and she has not shared her PIN with 
anyone. 
- She maintains she has been the victim of crime and the withdrawals are fraudulent. 
And whilst I appreciate she suspects there to be a link between her card being 
retained on 6 December 2020 and the disputed withdrawals. Im afraid Ive seen no 
evidence to support this and the same machine being used to carry out the disputed 
withdrawals is not, in itself, conclusive of fraud.
- She has argued that the activity does not match her usual pattern, and this should be 
taken into consideration. She says she rarely withdrew money from cash machines. 
Ive reviewed Mrs Es account activity in the months leading up to the disputed 
withdrawals. I note Mrs E made sixteen cash machine withdrawals in December 
(including the six she disputes). She made eighteen the month before and a similar 
number the month before that. So Im afraid I do not agree that the activity does not 
match her usual pattern.   
- She also thinks consideration hasnt been given to the well-known fact that cash 
machines can be fitted with devices that record PINs being entered. And that the 
area in which the cash machine is located is known for criminality. Whilst I accept this 
to be a possibility that could explain the compromise of her PIN, the person making 
the withdrawals would also have needed access to her card. And since the 
withdrawals took place on different days, several days apart with genuine use in 
between. If I were to accept an unknown opportunistic fraudster carried out the 
withdrawals, it wouldve required them to have taken and replaced the card on each 
occasion without Mrs Es knowledge  which I think is unlikely. Firstly, because it 
seems like a lot of effort and risk for someone to take particularly for the withdrawal 
amounts of £30 and £40. And secondly because Mrs E has said one of the other 
withdrawals took place whilst she was at work and her card was in her handbag 
locked in the storeroom. Another in the early hours of the morning whilst she was 
asleep, and her card was in her possession. 
- Also, if an opportunistic fraudster was in possession of Mrs Es card and PIN, Id 
typically expect them to have tried to maximise any financial benefit. I find it 
surprising that this didnt happen here. The disputed withdrawals took place several 
days apart and despite the account having a healthy balance at the time of each 
withdrawal  some of the withdrawals were for modest amounts below the daily 
withdrawal limit. This doesnt fit the behaviour Id generally expect to see of an 
opportunistic fraudster.So given what Ive said above, and after weighing everything up, I dont think the disputed 
withdrawals were made by an unknown opportunistic fraudster as Mrs E has suggested or 
by someone acting without her knowledge or consent. I think, on balance, the most likely 
explanation is that Mrs E either made the withdrawals herself or consented to someone else 
making the withdrawals she disputes. So Im satisfied RBS decision to not refund the 
disputed withdrawals is fair and reasonable. 
And overall, I think the apology and compensatory amount already paid by RBS for the 
customer service failings is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Mrs Es 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman