DRN-3434427
The complaint
Miss B has complained Tesco Mobile Limited has continued to ask her to pay for a mobile 
device although shes said she returned this to them.
What happened
In June 2021 Miss B believed her mobile was faulty. Tesco wouldnt agree to repair it as the 
device was out of warranty. Miss B upgraded her contract and a new device was sent to her.
Within the timescale set out in the terms and conditions, Miss B called Tesco to cancel this 
new contract. She believed the new device was also faulty. Tesco explained how they 
managed returns through a courier service. The courier would bring a jiffy bag for the phone 
to be popped in. Miss B wasnt sure that shed be available at the relevant time the courier 
could call.
The courier service attempted to pick up Miss Bs phone on two occasions: on 2 and 5 July. 
This was unsuccessful. 
Tesco applied the charges for the mobile to Miss Bs account. Miss B called Tesco on 
9 August to complain about this. During this call Tesco confirmed the package had been 
received back in the depot so Miss B felt everything had been sorted.
Tesco hadnt received Miss Bs mobile and continued to ask her to repay what was owed. As 
Miss B couldnt resolve her complaint with Tesco, she brought her complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator initially felt the information provided by Tesco indicated enough room for 
doubt. Miss B may well have got her son to return her phone using the post office on 
4 August. He asked Tesco to cancel the contract and write off the debt.
Tesco didnt believe the evidence indicated this. They explained they had received a jiffy bag 
back to their depot but on further examination this was empty. This was the bag returned by 
the courier company.
Our investigator told Miss B this evidence had made him change his mind and he was now 
not asking Tesco to do anything further. Unhappy with this outcome, Miss B asked an 
ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same amended outcome as our investigator did. Ill explain 
why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. I say this as I accept Miss Bs argument that some of the information Tesco 
has provided to us (and to her) has seemed contradictory. I believe this can all be explained. 
It wouldnt be fair to hold Tesco responsible for the costs of Miss Bs mobile just because 
their explanations werent as clear as Id hope.
Miss B has argued that Tesco told her by email that her device had been received by repair. 
I dont dispute this is what the email says but this appears to be an automated email sent 
after Miss B called Tesco to arrange return of her mobile. Essentially this email is asking her 
what she thought of Tescos service.
In any case theres no dispute Miss B had not returned the phone by 4 July. Shes told us 
her son returned the phone on 4 August. This was coincidentally the day Miss B knew  as 
Tesco told her in August  that her phone was still registered as being in use. Tesco 
deactivated the phone after this time so the phone couldnt be used further.
I think it is possible that Miss Bs son may well have sent off the phone at the post office. 
After all the phone couldnt be used. But this wasnt using the process  courier collecting 
and using a jiffy bag  that Tesco had set in place. In addition, this is well after the timescale 
allowed for cancelling the contract and follows use of the phone.
Miss B insists she received a jiffy bag from Tesco. Their own contact notes are not 
completely clear about this. They do imply that as Miss B told them she was unlikely to be 
around when the courier called, theyd send her a jiffy bag which was the procedure they 
previously followed.
But I dont believe this is really the key to this case. From the evidence Ive reviewed I can 
see Miss Bs new contract started on 15 June 2021. There was a cancellation period which 
Miss B met by contacting Tesco on 30 June. She then changed her mind when she realised 
it had been the SIM that was faulty. Tesco told her this wasnt possible once the cancellation 
was put in train. There was then no contact until 4 August when Miss B called Tesco to 
query the charge that had been applied. Later in August Miss B was told her mobile was 
registered as being used up to 4 August. Up until then Miss B had told Tesco the phone had 
been returned more than a month earlier. She then confirmed it was returned on 4 August 
but was unable to provide any proof of purchase.
Overall, I dont think Miss B met the terms and conditions of her contract with Tesco. I 
believe they can continue asking her to repay what is owed. I appreciate this will come as a 
severe financial shock to Miss B. Tesco will ensure an appropriate repayment plan is set up 
either through them or their debt recovery agents.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is not to uphold Miss Bs complaint against Tesco 
Mobile Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn1
Ombudsman