DRN-3435122
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the misleading information ReAssure Limited gave her about a family 
income benefit plan her late husband took out. She also complains about the very poor 
customer service she received when the payments stopped in mid-2018.
Mrs H has explained that not only has this matter caused her considerable distress and 
worry, but she is also in financial difficulty as a result of the payments stopping without any 
warning.
What happened
Very sadly, Mrs H was widowed in late 2007. Mrs Hs late husband had arranged an income 
benefit plan for his family and from early 2008 onwards Mrs H received a gross monthly 
payment of £1,949 from ReAssure. (The policy has been administered by several different 
providers since 2008 but, for simplicity, I have referred to ReAssure as the product provider 
throughout this decision.)
The payments were described to Mrs H as a lifetime annuity in the letters and statements 
she received from ReAssure and the previous product providers responsible for the policy.
Mrs H has explained that as she understood that the payments would continue for the rest of 
her life, she made financial decisions based on, what she understood to be, a secure and 
on-going income. This included taking out additional borrowing secured against her home 
and enrolling one of her children, who has a special educational need, in a private school. 
Mrs H also paid tax on the payments as she understood that, as annuity payments, the 
income was taxable.
In July 2018 the monthly payments stopped without warning. The information available 
shows that Mrs H immediately contacted ReAssure as she thought there must be an 
administrative error. Despite having been made aware of Mrs Hs personal circumstances 
ReAssure was very slow to respond to Mrs H and it appears it simply ignored follow-up 
emails she sent.
In the meantime, Mrs H sought advice from a financial adviser who suggested that the policy 
might have been set up incorrectly by ReAssure and might be a family income benefit plan, 
rather than an annuity. It appears the adviser also explained to Mrs H that if the payments 
were from a family income benefit plan (a form of term assurance) the payments were not 
taxable.
Mrs H sent ReAssure details of the information she had received from her financial adviser 
and again asked it for a prompt response given the very difficult financial situation she was 
in. She also set out that she had made tax payments to HMRC as ReAssure had told her the 
payments were annuity payments and were therefore taxable. She asked for urgent 
clarification on the policy. She explained that this was particularly important as a self-
assessment tax return was due at the end of January 2019 and she wanted to be sure that 
the income she declared was correct.
ReAssure replied in January 2019, over six months after the payments had stopped. In its 
response it ignored the points Mrs H had raised and simply referred to a Form of Discharge 
Mrs H had completed in early 2008. This form set out that Mrs H would receive an income of 
£23,389 per year until 1 July 2018.
When Mrs H asked ReAssure to address the points she had raised it said there was nothing 
more that we can send you and said Mrs H should let it know if she wanted to make a 
complaint.
As ReAssure had failed to treat Mrs Hs earlier expressions of dissatisfaction as a complaint 
Mrs H had to again set out her concerns to ReAssure before it treated the issues she had 
raised as a complaint. In March 2019, Mrs H sent a letter reiterating all the issues she had 
already raised.
It appears ReAssure responded to Mrs H in April 2019 but only addressed the tax it had 
incorrectly deducted from the payments Mrs H received from May 2015 to August 2017. It 
said it didnt feel it was responsible for the tax Mrs H had overpaid prior to this as she had 
declared the income on her tax return. It did not explain why Mrs H had been told, in writing, 
on numerous occasions by ReAssure that the income was annuity income, paid from a 
pension annuity plan and was therefore taxable.
Mrs H then had to contact ReAssure again to try to find out why her complaint hadnt been 
investigated and, having discussed the matter with it by phone, sent a follow-up letter in July 
2019.
In mid-December 2019 (eighteen months after the payments had stopped) ReAssure 
responded to the issues Mrs H had raised. It said:
Although the copy documents youve provided dont confirm your income was due to stop on 
1 July 2018 and didnt confirm your policy was a Family Income Protection Plan, our position 
is that the Form of Discharge would have ensured you were aware payments would stop.
Therefore, we wont be looking to restart income payments after 1 July 2018.
But it acknowledged that the correspondence sent to you from January 2008 has given 
you the impression that income payments would continue throughout your lifetime. Id like to 
apologise for the false impression this correspondence has given you, and for not identifying 
this correspondence when we sent our response to your complaint on 10 April 2019.
In order to put matters right it refunded the £21,055.22 in tax that Guardian Financial 
Services and subsequently ReAssure had wrongly deducted from the income payments 
Mrs H had received from May 2015 through to August 2017 and said it would correct the 
position with HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) on Mrs Hs behalf. I understand that it also 
needed to correct the position with HMRC for Mrs H to reclaim the tax she had overpaid from 
August 2017 to mid-2018.
But with regard to the taxation period before May 2015, it said:
 the correspondence you provided copies of show that the provider company at the time 
were responsible for reporting the tax to HMRC rather than you
It then went on to say:I realise the correspondence sent by Scottish Provident, Phoenix Life, Guardian Financial 
Services and ourselves has been misleading with respect to the type of income payments 
youre receiving. So to say sorry, Id like to send you an apology payment of £1,000. Please 
let me know whether I can go ahead and send this to you.
With regards [to] the accountancy costs youre incurring when correcting your tax records for 
the period before May 2015, although the correspondence sent confirmed the provider 
company at the time were responsible for reporting the tax to HMRC rather than you, 
referring to a tax rate of PAYE would be confusing. Id like to take the opportunity to 
apologise for any confusion caused.
With respect to your accountancy fees regarding the period before May 2015, we would like 
to offer an amount of £750 towards the fees. This would be subject to receiving confirmation 
from your accountant as to the amount theyve charged you, and from HMRC confirming 
theyve had to complete a correction to your records for the period before May 2015 
regarding the monthly income of £1,949.10 youd previously declared.
Mrs H was not satisfied with ReAssures response and referred the matter to this service.
When she referred her complaint to us, she provided the following summary:
I made financial decisions on this basis as well as assuming that, as a pension, the 
payments were taxable and hence they were presented to HMRC as such by both me and 
by ReAssure. In July 2018 the payments stopped without warning. It took almost 8 months 
and constant follow ups and investigations, mostly undertaken by me to discover that the 
policy was wrongly set up at outset.
It was in fact, a Family Income Benefit (Life assurance) policy with a defined end date. I was, 
therefore, misled for over 10 years. The company have sought to rely upon the "Form of 
Discharge" sent to me in early 2008 which gave an end date. They did not issue any other 
documents and the policy number under which I received payments was different. ReAssure 
have sought to disregard all of the other documents they sent me which contradicted this 
position [the documents are marked] "monthly" and "annual" as this is the frequency with 
which they were sent and received. The policy was also taxed when it should not have been.
Even though ReAssure have admitted that they made a mistake, the compensation of 
£1,000 they have offered is wholly inadequate in the circumstances. To date, the company 
have still not updated their records returns to HMRC so that my taxation position can be 
confirmed and tax due repaid to me. Again. I have chased them on various occasions
An investigator considered Mrs Hs complaint. Having done so, she said she didnt think she 
could reasonably require ReAssure to re-instate the monthly payments. She said she was 
mindful of the letters Mrs H had received setting out that the payments were in respect of a 
lifetime annuity but she also noted that the discharge form Mrs H had signed in 2008 set out 
that the payments would stop in mid-2018.
But she said she thought ReAssure should pay Mrs H a total of £2,500 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter had caused her.
And she said that she felt ReAssures offer to pay Mrs H £750 to cover her accountancy fees 
for liaising with HMRC for the period prior to May 2015 (subject to receiving confirmation 
from HMRC that it needed to complete a correction to her records for this period) was fair. 
She also felt it was fair for ReAssure to say that Mrs H and her accountant would have to 
deal directly with HMRC to resolve any issues relating to pre-May 2015.For the period from May 2015 to August 2017 she noted that ReAssure accepted that it had 
incorrectly reported the income Mrs H received from the policy to HMRC and deducted the 
tax that it claimed was payable. In order to put matters right it had paid Mrs H the £21,055.22 
of overpaid tax for this period and said it would sort out the problems its error had caused 
with HMRC.
However, ReAssure then said HMRC had told it that Mrs H would need to contact HMRC 
directly to resolve this issue and that if she didnt repay the £21,055.22 to ReAssure (and 
then reclaim this amount directly from HMRC) she might suffer a Reg 80 penalty from HMRC 
on the payment she had received from ReAssure to cover the overpaid tax for this period.
Our investigator said she had to assume the information ReAssure said it had received from 
HMRC was correct. So, she said Mrs H needed to decide which option she wanted to take in 
relation to the overpaid tax for the period May 2015 to August 2017.
However, she said ReAssure should have clarified the situation with HMRC before offering 
to rectify Mrs Hs tax records and making the payment of £21,055.22. And she said she had 
taken this poor service and the distress and inconvenience this had caused Mrs H into 
account in the £2,500 she recommended ReAssure should pay Mrs H.
She said that if Mrs H was not willing or able to return the amount of £21,055.22 to 
ReAssure it should cover any penalties applied by HMRC, such as a Reg 80 penalty as any 
penalties would have been avoided if ReAssure had clarified the situation with HMRC in the 
first instance and given Mrs H the correct information.
ReAssure didnt accept the investigators view. It said it felt the £1,000 it had offered to pay 
Mrs H for the loss of expectation for how long the income payments would last for was 
more than fair in the circumstances of this complaint and it didnt think it should be required 
to pay any more.
It also changed its position and said it was liaising with HMRC (but had still not managed to 
resolve matters) on Mrs Hs behalf. And it said it had paid Mrs H £693 interest on the tax it 
had incorrectly deducted. It noted it had not paid Mrs H the £750 it had offered towards her 
accountancy fees for the period prior to May 2015 (when Mrs H had declared the income 
from the policy to HMRC) as it said Mrs H hadnt provided it with evidence of the costs 
incurred.
Mrs H did not accept our investigators view either. She said, in summary, that she didnt feel 
the investigator had fully taken into account that ReAssure had repeatedly told her, in writing 
that the policy was a pension annuity. She said she felt it was unfair and unreasonable for 
the investigator to say she should have known that the policy would only pay an income until 
July 2018, based on the Form of Discharge from 2008. And she said she felt the redress 
the investigator had recommended didnt reflect the very difficult financial situation she was 
facing due to the repeated failings by ReAssure.
Mrs H reiterated that she had made significant financial decisions, based on the information 
she had been provided with, on a regular basis, from ReAssure stating that the policy was a 
pension annuity and therefore payable for life. Had she known the income would only be 
payable until mid-2018, Mrs H said she would not have taken on long term financial 
commitments based on this income.
Mrs H also said she couldnt re-claim the tax she had paid on the income from the policy 
prior to May 2015 (when ReAssure started deducting the tax at source). She said:I paid tax at source from 2013 (from my earned income), which was sometimes at the higher 
rate, that I should not have paid. Due to HMRC rules, I cannot reclaim this money. It is lost to 
me forever. At basic rate, this was £6,000 per year - therefore, I have lost £18,000 prior to 
2015 in addition to the sum you mention after 2015. What about the interest on this money? 
During that time, I did not have the use of this money. Surely, to put me back into the 
position I would have been in, the money + the interest should be returned (at the very 
least)? The wide-ranging nature of my losses do not appear to have been considered by you 
at all.
The investigator responded to say that although she was sympathetic to Mrs Hs position, 
she felt the compensation she had proposed was fair.
As both Mrs H and ReAssure were unhappy with the investigators view the complaint was 
passed to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 10 March 2022. In it I explained that I 
was of the view that the redress recommended by our investigator was too low given the 
significant, long term, detrimental impact Mrs H had suffered as a result of the incorrect 
information she received on numerous occasions from ReAssure and the additional distress 
it caused her when it failed to respond to her concerns promptly.
I said I was also mindful that Mrs H had said she cannot reclaim the tax she paid on the 
income she received from this policy prior to May 2015. And that, as her tax position with 
HMRC had still not been resolved, despite ReAssure having said it would get her records 
corrected, she had not received a refund of tax she had overpaid for the tax years 2017/8 
and 2018/9.
I set out my provisional decision on how I thought this complaint should be fairly resolved as 
follows:
Communication with Mrs H
I explained that, as ReAssure will know, it is required to treat its customers fairly, act with 
due skill care and diligence and ensure that all communication with customers is clear, fair, 
and not misleading.
Having carefully reviewed all the letters Mrs H had provided to this service from ReAssure I 
noted that she had received at least 10 letters (and I understand this was only a sample of 
the letters Mrs H received) each describing her policy as a lifetime annuity (2009 onwards) 
or a pension annuity plan (2017 letters) and it clearly stated, The income you receive from 
your pension is taxable as earned income.
I said it was not in dispute that the discharge form Mrs H completed in 2008 said that the 
payments would be made until July 2018. But I said I hadnt seen anything apart from this 
form that said the payments would stop and Mrs H would not receive an income for the rest 
of her life from the policy.
I noted that at the time Mrs H completed the discharge form in 2008 she had only very 
recently lost her husband and would have had a significant amount of administration to deal 
with, as well as supporting her children and trying to come to terms with her loss.
When this was taken into account I said I didnt think it was fair or reasonable for ReAssure 
to say that Mrs H should have known that the payments would stop in mid-2018 and should 
have disregarded the incorrect information it sent her on numerous occasions about the plan 
from 2009 onwards. I noted that it had failed to provide any explanation as to why it repeatedly told Mrs H that the plan was a lifetime annuity or a pension annuity plan or why 
it told Mrs H that the payments were taxable.
I said I was of the view that the problems Mrs H had experienced were, to a very large 
extent, caused by ReAssures failure to ensure that the information it sent to Mrs H about the 
plan was clear, fair and not misleading.
Where a business makes an error, or errors, as ReAssure has done here, I explained that 
this service usually looks to put the customer back in the position they would have been in, 
but for the errors.
In Mrs Hs case, I said that if ReAssure had met the regulatory requirement to ensure that all 
the communications it sent to her were clear, fair and not misleading Mrs H would not have 
reported the income she received to HMRC as she would have known that income from a 
family income benefit plan wasnt taxable. She would also have been able to manage her 
finances differently as she would have known that the income she was receiving from the 
plan would stop in mid-2018.
I said it was not possible for me to say with any certainty what Mrs H would have done 
differently. But I was mindful that Mrs H had said she would not have taken on additional 
borrowing to fund private schooling or extend her mortgage if she had known that the 
payments would only be made until mid-2018.
Having very carefully considered this matter I said I didnt think I could reasonably require 
ReAssure to re-instate the payments Mrs H was receiving from it. I said I had reached this 
view as I thought a fair resolution to this complaint would be to put Mrs H back in the position 
she would have been in, but for the errors made by ReAssure. In Mrs Hs case, as she had 
rightly noted, if ReAssure had provided her with correct information she would have known 
that the family income benefit payments she was receiving would end in July 2018 and were 
not taxable.
The redress I set out in my provisional decision aimed to put Mrs H back in the position she 
would have been in, but for the errors made by ReAssure.
However, I explained that I was also mindful of the very significant worry and distress this 
matter had caused Mrs H and I said I didnt think the £2,500 our investigator had 
recommended fully reflected the distress the incorrect information Mrs H received from 
ReAssure from 2009 onwards had caused her.
When considering the redress ReAssure should pay Mrs H, I took into account that it failed 
to act with due skill care and diligence in its administration of this policy. It repeatedly sent 
Mrs H letters saying the policy was a pension annuity. When it became aware that it had 
wrongly told Mrs H that the policy was a pension annuity it appears that it didnt make any 
effort to contact her to let her know that it had repeatedly given her incorrect information.
I said I thought that the loss of expectation Mrs H had suffered was significant and in view of 
this I thought ReAssure should pay Mrs H a further £3,500 (in addition to the £1,000 it had 
already offered to pay) for the distress its failure to administer her policy with adequate skill, 
care and diligence had caused.
I said I did understand that Mrs H would feel this amount was too low to adequately 
compensate her for the very significant distress she has suffered as a result of discovering 
that the benefit she understood she would receive for life was only payable to mid-2018. But 
I said I thought my proposed award was in-line with the level of award this service makes 
where a customer has suffered significant severe distress as a result of errors by a business.Complaints made by Mrs H
I said I was of the view that the email Mrs H sent to ReAssure dated 23 October 2018 met 
the FCA definition of a complaint and I said I felt it was very unsatisfactory that ReAssure 
failed to treat this letter of dissatisfaction as a complaint under the FCA rules.
I said I thought that ReAssures failure to promptly acknowledge and investigate Mrs Hs 
complaint had added significantly to the distress and worry this matter had caused her.
I said that ReAssure knew, from the information Mrs H had provided to it, that she was 
struggling financially and that this matter was causing her a great deal of distress. It also 
knew that Mrs H had asked it to respond urgently to the issues she had raised, particularly 
with regard to the tax implications. Despite this it appeared that ReAssure had simply 
ignored Mrs Hs letter.
I explained that, as ReAssure will be aware, it is required to treat its customers fairly. I said I 
thought that its failure to acknowledge or investigate the issues Mrs H had raised was both 
unfair and unreasonable.
Its failure to treat Mrs Hs expression of dissatisfaction in October 2018 as a complaint 
meant that Mrs H suffered additional worry and distress for several months longer than she 
should have done.
I noted that ReAssure said it felt the offer it had made to pay Mrs H £1,000 for the loss of 
expectation for how long the income payments would last for was more than fair and it 
didnt think it should be required to pay any more.
But I said I was mindful that it had not offered Mrs H any compensation for the significant 
distress she suffered when it simply ignored her concerns when the income payments 
stopped without warning in mid-2018.
I said I was of the view that ReAssure should pay Mrs H a further £1,000 (in addition to the 
award set out above) for the additional worry and distress it caused her by failing to respond 
promptly to the concerns she had raised. Having read the emails and letters Mrs H had sent 
to ReAssure at that time I said it was clear Mrs H was, understandably, very distressed and 
facing very difficult financial circumstances as a result of the sudden withdrawal of the 
income she had expected to receive for the rest of her life. Despite this, it appeared 
ReAssure had simply ignored Mrs H.
Having carefully considered this aspect of Mrs Hs complaint I said I thought the very poor 
service Mrs H had received was unfair and unreasonable, particularly in light of the 
information she had provided to ReAssure about her personal and financial circumstances.
Tax paid by Mrs H as a result of incorrect information provided by ReAssure
In its responses to this service I said it appeared that ReAssure had sought to blame Mrs H 
for reporting the income she had received from the policy to HMRC. It said:
I understand the problem with tax before May 2015 is that Mrs H reported it as taxable 
income when she shouldnt have done. We (or rather previous product providers) didnt 
deduct tax before May 2015. Our letter of 28 Jan 2008 confirmed payments are exempt of 
tax and further letters dated 1 Nov 2009, 1 Jan 2009, 3 Jan 2014 and 3 Jan 2017 all confirm 
that tax reporting will be completed by that current provider (Scottish Provident 
/Phoenix/Guardian/ReAssure).Therefore, Mrs H shouldnt have reported it as taxable income based on what she was told. 
However, the letters of 1 Nov 2009, 1 Jan 2009, 3 Jan 2014 and 3 Jan 2017 also referred to 
a tax rate of PAYE, which is confusing. Therefore, we agreed to pay £750 towards 
accountancy costs 
I carefully considered the points ReAssure had made. Having done so I said I didnt think a 
reasonable person could find that the correspondence Mrs H had received from ReAssure 
(and previous product providers) was clear fair and not misleading in relation to whether 
this income was taxable.
In reaching this view I said I had taken into account that ReAssure deducted the tax it 
thought was due to HMRC from the payments it made to Mrs H between May 2015 and 
August 2017. I said that as ReAssure, a regulated financial business, was satisfied that the 
payments should have been taxed I thought it was unfair and unreasonable for it to claim 
that Mrs H, a consumer with no tax or financial expertise, was at fault for not knowing that 
the payments werent taxable.
As a regulated financial business, I said my view was that ReAssure should have clearly 
stated the tax position of the income Mrs H was receiving from it. I said I didnt think it had 
acted fairly by seeking to hold Mrs H even partly responsible for its misleading 
communication and I was satisfied that Mrs H would have thought the income was taxable 
based on the communications she received from it about this policy.
In particular, I noted that the letters I had seen (that ReAssure had referred to above) clearly 
set out that the taxable portion of the monthly payment was £1,949.10  the full amount 
Mrs H received each month from the plan and that the tax rate was PAYE.
I said I was also mindful that Mrs H would have faced significant fines and penalties from 
HMRC if she had failed to report all her taxable income.
I noted that in an email to ReAssure dated 23 October 2018 Mrs H set out how she felt 
ReAssure should put matters right if the policy was, in fact, a family income benefit plan, not 
a pension annuity as ReAssure had previously stated. Mrs H said:
c) [if] This policy was a benefit payable under a "Family Income Benefit" and not a 
pension plan
In this event, I will need to apply to HMRC for all taxation paid over the years to be returned 
to me. I will expect to be compensated for the disadvantages caused to me which this 
"withholding" of income caused since I had to borrow money elsewhere in order to meet 
monthly commitments I could have afforded had "tax" not been deducted. I will also need my 
accountancy costs to be met in full
Had ReAssure treated Mrs H fairly when it considered her complaint, I said I thought it would 
have sought to resolve matters along these lines. With this in mind I set out what I thought 
ReAssure needed to do to put Mrs H in the position she would have been in had she been 
provided with correct information about the tax position of the payments she received from 
this policy.
Tax Mrs H has paid on income from this policy to May 2015
As our investigator had noted, from 2009 to 2018, Mrs H received numerous letters from 
ReAssure (and the previous product providers involved) setting out that the policy was a lifetime annuity and that the income was taxable. As a result, Mrs H reported the income to 
HMRC as she had been told, in writing, that the income was taxable.
I noted that ReAssure had refunded the tax it deducted at source from Mrs Hs annuity 
payments from May 2015 to August 2017. However, it only offered to pay £750 towards 
Mrs Hs accountancy costs for sorting out her position with HMRC for the period prior to May 
2015 (subject to receiving confirmation from HMRC that it needed to complete a correction 
to her records for this period).
However, I said I understood that, in line with HMRC rules, Mrs H could only reclaim the tax 
she had overpaid to HMRC for the last four tax years.
In view of this, I noted that the offer ReAssure had made to pay a sum towards Mrs Hs 
accountancy costs was not going to put her back in the position she would now be in, but for 
its errors.
I noted that Mrs H had, very helpfully, provided this service with a breakdown of the tax she 
had overpaid up to May 2015. She also said that as her accountant had not yet received 
copies of her tax records prior to 2012 from HMRC. Mrs H said she was willing to consider 
disregarding tax she may have overpaid prior to April 2013 in the interests of resolving this 
complaint.
I said that if Mrs H wished to reconsider her position on the tax she may have overpaid prior 
to April 2013, due to ReAssures errors, she should let me know in her response to my 
provisional decision.
Mrs H said her accountant had confirmed the following:
2013-2014 - In this tax year, taxation of £6,236 was taken from my earned income in respect 
of taxation for the Guardian policy, this cannot now be reclaimed.
2014  15 - In this tax year taxation of £9,355 was taken from my earned income in respect 
of taxation for the Guardian policy, this cannot now be reclaimed.
In order to put matters right for this period, my provisional decision was that ReAssure 
should refund the tax Mrs H had overpaid for the tax years 2013/4 and 2014/5. 
In addition, I said it should pay 8% simple interest per year on these amounts to compensate 
Mrs H for the loss of the use of this money.
In reaching this provisional decision I said I had taken into account that in the documentation 
Mrs H had provided to this service it showed that from 2009 onwards Mrs H had received 
confirmation that payments from this plan were taxable. In good faith Mrs H had therefore 
reported the income to HMRC as taxable income.
I said that if ReAssure wanted to verify the amounts Mrs Hs accountant had calculated she 
had overpaid to HMRC, as a result of the incorrect information it had provided, it could 
require appropriate confirmation from Mrs Hs accountant as a condition of paying this part of 
the redress due to Mrs H. 
I said it should pay Mrs Hs accountant directly for any costs involved in providing the 
documentation it required.In addition, I said that if it subsequently came to light that HMRC intended to impose a Reg 
80 penalty (or any other penalty) on Mrs H in respect of the tax ReAssure refunded to her for 
this period, ReAssure should meet the full amount of any such penalty.
Tax Mrs H paid on income from this policy from May 2015 to August 2017
I noted that ReAssure had already refunded the tax it deducted at source for the period from 
May 2015 to August 2017. 
I said I understood that ReAssure had also paid Mrs H £693 in interest to compensate her 
for the loss of the use of this money.
In view of this I said I did not intend to make any further award in relation to the tax Mrs H 
had overpaid during this period as a result of ReAssures errors.
However I said that if it subsequently came to light that HMRC intended to impose a Reg 80 
penalty (or any other penalty) on Mrs H in respect of the tax ReAssure had refunded to her 
for this period, ReAssure should meet the full amount of any such penalty.
Tax Mrs H paid on income from this policy from August 2017 to June 2018
Mrs H said her accountant had confirmed the following information:
2017-18 - £27,400 was added to my earned income to be taxed (at 40%) in respect of 
ReAssure income. I have not yet received the refund of this tax (£10,960) as ReAssure have 
not, to date, updated their records to HMRC, despite many, many requests.
2018-19 - £12,680 was added to my earned income to be taxed (at 40%) in respect of 
ReAssure income. I have not yet received this refund of tax - £5,072 due to reasons stated 
above.
(I said it was not clear to me how these figures had been arrived at as I understood that the 
maximum Mrs H could have received from this policy was £23,389 per year.)
I explained that, at my request, this service had asked ReAssure, on five separate occasions 
(25/5/21, 9/6/21, 22/6/21, 14/7/21 and 9/8/21), to confirm that it had corrected Mrs Hs tax 
position with HMRC. I said I was disappointed to hear that ReAssure had apparently still not 
updated its records with HMRC as it had told this service in July 2021 that the tax has now 
been corrected with HMRC.
Based on the information that Mrs H had provided to this service I said it appeared that, due 
to failures on ReAssures part, Mrs H was still not able to reclaim the tax she had overpaid to 
HMRC for 2017/8 and 2018/9.
I explained that this service is not in a position to liaise with HMRC on Mrs Hs behalf, so I 
said that unless ReAssure could provide clear, unambiguous evidence to show that it did 
correct Mrs Hs tax position with HMRC in July 2021 and that Mrs H was free to reclaim this 
money directly from HMRC, my provisional view was that it should reimburse Mrs H for the 
tax she had over paid as a result of its errors for the 2017/8 and 2018/9 tax years. I said it 
should also pay Mrs H 8% simple interest per year on these amounts to compensate her for 
the loss of the use of this money.
I said that if ReAssure wished to verify the amounts Mrs Hs accountant had calculated that 
Mrs H had overpaid to HMRC as a result of the incorrect information it had provided, it could require appropriate confirmation from Mrs Hs accountant as a condition of paying this part of 
the redress due to Mrs H. 
I said it should pay Mrs Hs accountant directly for any costs involved in providing the 
documentation it required.
I said ReAssure could then seek repayment of the overpaid tax for this period from HMRC. If 
it required a letter from Mrs H to provide to HMRC confirming that the overpaid tax for this 
period should be paid directly to ReAssure, I said Mrs H should provide this as a condition of 
receiving the redress for this period.
In addition, I said that should it subsequently come to light that HMRC intended to impose a 
Reg 80 penalty (or any other penalty) on Mrs H in respect of the tax ReAssure had refunded 
to her for this period, ReAssure should meet the full amount of any such penalty.
However, I said that if ReAssure was able to provide clear, unambiguous evidence that it 
had corrected Mrs Hs tax records for this period with HMRC and that Mrs H was free to 
reclaim this money directly from HMRC my provisional view was that it should pay 8% 
simple interest per year on the tax Mrs H overpaid for 2017/8 and 2018/9, as a result of its 
errors to compensate Mrs H for the loss of the use of this money. I said this interest should 
be paid to the date of my final decision.
I also said that if Mrs H was able to reclaim the tax for this period directly from HMRC, 
ReAssure should meet any accountancy costs Mrs H incurred as a result of claiming a 
refund of the overpaid tax for this period from HMRC.
Upon receipt of an invoice for the accountancy services for this work I said ReAssure should 
refund the full cost incurred within 28 days of receipt of the invoice.
Both Mrs H and ReAssure responded to my provisional decision.
ReAssure did not accept my provisional decision. It said it still felt that the original outcome 
of the complaint is fair and reasonable. 
And it said:
When the family income policies were paid out and income payments set up at the time 
these were automatically set up as Lifetime Annuity plans. Whilst I appreciate that this may 
have caused confusion for Mrs H she did sign and complete the discharge form sent 
previously which confirms the term of the payments.
It reiterated that the discharge form Mrs H signed in 2008 said that the policy had an end 
date. It also said it had written to Mrs H in 2017 and provided a benefit schedule. This 
schedule showed that the last payment was due on 1 July 2018. It said Mrs H hadnt raised 
concerns about this at the time. 
Somewhat bafflingly it also claimed it was unable to locate any evidence that we have 
confirmed to Mrs H specifically that the policy would be paid throughout her lifetime and said 
that if Mrs H had any documents that confirm this she should forward them to ReAssure for 
consideration.
With regard to its liaison with HMRC ReAssure said:
Please note that we have been unable to deal with HMRC directly as they will not provide us 
with details regardless of the authority provided by Mrs H. With regards to any tax 
adjustments Mrs H would need to contact HMRC, if there is anything further we can do to 
assist with resolving the tax issues then we are more than willing to assist.Mrs H provided a detailed response to my provisional decision. In summary she said she 
was pleased that the complaint had been upheld but she felt the redress I had proposed did 
not adequately take account of the loss she had suffered.
In particular she said, she accepted that, one way in which to place me into a position that 
I would have been in, had the errors not occurred, is to ask ReAssure to rectify my tax 
position - both in repayment of lump sums that I cannot reclaim from HMRC and by imposing 
an interest payment, both on those payments and those that I might be able to reclaim from 
HMRC directly.
But Mrs H said she felt the redress I had proposed did not take into account that these 
errors have had a significant effect on my finances - a position that I would not be in, had the 
errors not been made.
In particular Mrs H said she would not have been able to take on additional borrowing (the 
further advance secured against her home and borrowing to fund her sons education) if the 
lender had known that the lifetime annuity income she was receiving was not, in fact a 
lifetime annuity. 
Mrs H explained that she is unable to afford the repayments, or refinance the borrowing at a 
lower cost as she no longer has sufficient income to support the level of borrowing. As a 
result Mrs H says she is selling her home as she feels she has no other option.
In order to reflect the very difficult financial position she is in Mrs H says she feels ReAssure 
should pay her a further lump sum. In addition to the redress I set out in the provisional 
decision, Mrs H says she thinks ReAssure should pay her an amount equivalent to the 
income she expected to receive from the date the payments stopped in July 2018, to the 
date she is able to sell her home. Mrs H says this lump sum will help her service the loan 
payments.
Mrs H also said she felt the redress did not reflect that if she had known that the income she 
was receiving from ReAssure was not payable for life she would have contributed more to a 
pension plan. She provided a cost of delay calculation showing the possible financial impact 
of delaying pension contributions.
She said she did not feel that ReAssure was being held accountable for the considerable 
distress and upheaval she was facing due to its errors. She said that in addition to the 
redress I had set out she felt that , the very least that I should expect is for the income to 
be paid to me until I am in a position to reorganise my life, to account for the fact that I will 
not have that income - that is selling my house to repay the borrowings I made. In addition, I 
feel that ReAssure should be asked to fund a lump sum payment to my pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered the points that both Mrs H and ReAssure have made in 
response to my provisional decision, I remain of the view that the redress I set out in my 
provisional decision is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Points raised by ReAssureReAssure says that it feels the original outcome of the complaint is fair and reasonable. 
And it says:
When the family income policies were paid out and income payments set up at the time 
these were automatically set up as Lifetime Annuity plans. Whilst I appreciate that this may 
have caused confusion for Mrs H she did sign and complete the discharge form sent 
previously which confirms the term of the payments.
I would remind ReAssure that it is required to act with due skill, care and diligence. By its 
own admission it wrongly set up the policy as a lifetime annuity plan. I dont see how its 
admission that it failed to set up the policy correctly in 2008 supports its claim that the offer it 
made to resolve this complaint is either fair or reasonable.
I am disappointed by ReAssures claim that it is unable to locate any evidence that we 
have confirmed to Mrs H specifically that the policy would be paid throughout her lifetime. 
As I clearly set out in my provisional decision it sent Mrs H numerous statements referring to 
the policy as a lifetime annuity (2009 onwards) and a pension annuity plan (2017 letters). It 
is unclear to me how ReAssure can claim that any reasonable person would think a policy 
repeatedly described as a lifetime annuity would not be payable for life.
In addition I note that in the final response letter it sent to Mrs H in December 2019 it 
acknowledged that correspondence sent to you from January 2008 has given you the 
impression that income payments would continue throughout your lifetime. Id like to 
apologise for the false impression this correspondence has given you.... 
In view of this I am satisfied that ReAssure has already accepted that the correspondence it 
sent on numerous occasions incorrectly set out that Mrs H would receive a lifetime annuity.
I note that ReAssure has reiterated that the original discharge forms Mrs H signed in 2008 
said that the policy had an end date. It also says it wrote to Mrs H in 2017 and provided a 
benefit schedule. This schedule showed that the last payment was due on 1 July 2018. It 
said Mrs H hadnt raised concerns about this at the time. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, at the time Mrs H completed the discharge form in 
2008 she had only very recently lost her husband and would have had a significant amount 
of administration to deal with, as well as supporting her children and trying to come to terms 
with her loss.
When this is taken into account I remain of the view that it is not fair or reasonable for 
ReAssure to say that Mrs H should have known that the payments would stop in mid-2018 
and should have disregarded the incorrect information it sent her on numerous occasions 
about the plan from 2009 onwards. 
In its response to my provisional decision ReAssure also provided a copy of a letter and 
schedule it sent to Mrs H in 2017. The schedule showed that the last payment was due on 1 
July 2018. ReAssure says that Mrs H didnt raised concerns about this at the time. 
Having reviewed this letter and schedule, I note that the policy is referred to as a Pension 
Annuity and a Level Lifetime Annuity. There is nothing in the covering letter that would 
have alerted Mrs H to the fact that both these descriptions were misleading. Unless Mrs H 
had reviewed the schedule in detail, I dont think she would have been aware that the policy 
had an end date. 
When I take into consideration the numerous statements and letters Mrs H had previously 
received describing the policy as a lifetime annuity I dont think it is reasonable to say that she should have realised from the schedule that there might be a problem and that the policy 
would not provide her with a lifetime income. I think this is particularly the case as 
ReAssure continued to describe it as a pension annuity.
With regard to liaising with HMRC I note that ReAssure has again changed its position and 
says:we have been unable to deal with HMRC directly as they will not provide us with 
details regardless of the authority provided by Mrs H.
I am mindful that, as I explained in my provisional decision, at my request this service asked 
ReAssure, on five separate occasions (25/5/21, 9/6/21, 22/6/21, 14/7/21 and 9/8/21), to 
confirm that it had corrected Mrs Hs tax position with HMRC. ReAssure told this service that 
a Senior Tax Manager was dealing directly with HMRC to resolve this matter for Mrs H.
In July 2021 ReAssure then confirmed to this service that the tax has now been corrected 
with HMRC. 
So, despite having provided written confirmation to this service in July 2021 that the tax has 
now been corrected with HMRC ReAssure now claims it is not able to correct the position. 
As ReAssure told this service over nine months ago that it had corrected Mrs Hs tax position 
I find it very unsatisfactory that it now claims it has not been able to do so. I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable for Mrs H to continue to be disadvantaged by ReAssures failure 
to correct her tax records. It told this service that the records had been corrected and only 
changed its position when I asked it to provide clear, unambiguous evidence to show that it 
did correct Mrs Hs tax position with HMRC in July 2021.
As this is the case, I am not persuaded to change my provisional decision. I think ReAssure 
should refund the tax Mrs H overpaid to HMRC as a result of the misleading information she 
received from ReAssure.
Points raised by Mrs H
As I set out in my provisional decision, I am sympathetic to Mrs Hs position and I am of the 
view that the failings by ReAssure to respond promptly and fully to her complaint in 2018 
only added to the worry and distress this matter has caused her.
I have very carefully considered the points Mrs H has made about the amount of redress she 
feels ReAssure should pay her and in particular whether, in addition to the redress I set out 
in my provisional decision, it should pay her a lump sum equivalent to the payments she 
expected to receive from July 2018 (when the payments stopped) to either the date of my 
final decision, or the sale of her home.
Mrs H says , the very least that I should expect is for the income to be paid to me until I 
am in a position to reorganise my life, to account for the fact that I will not have that income - 
that is selling my house to repay the borrowings I made. In addition, I feel that ReAssure 
should be asked to fund a lump sum payment to my pension.
As I set out in my provisional decision I think the redress should, as far as possible, aim to 
put Mrs H back in the position she would now be in, but for the misleading information she 
received from ReAssure throughout the term of the policy.
I appreciate that Mrs H feels the redress is insufficient to compensate her for the errors 
ReAssure made and the loss she has suffered. As I set out above, I think ReAssure should refund the tax Mrs H overpaid to HMRC as a 
result of its unclear and misleading information and pay interest, at 8% simple per year, on 
these overpayments.
The interest I have awarded on the tax Mrs H overpaid is intended to compensate her for the 
loss of the use of this money. As I explained in my provisional decision, I cannot say with 
certainty what Mrs H would have done if she had understood, from the outset that the 
payments would stop in July 2018. 
Mrs H says she would not have needed to take on additional borrowing if she hadnt paid tax 
on the income she received from the plan and would have contributed more to a pension if 
she had known she would not receive an income for life. 
The interest ReAssure must pay on the overpaid tax is intended, as far as possible to put 
Mrs H in the position she would have been in, had she been provided with correct 
information about the tax position of the payments she received from this policy. Mrs H has 
previously said she  will expect to be compensated for the disadvantages caused to me 
which this "withholding" of income caused since I had to borrow money elsewhere in order to 
meet monthly commitments I could have afforded had "tax" not been deducted. By awarding 
interest, at 8% simple per year, on the tax Mrs H overpaid due to ReAssures misleading 
communication I have, as far as possible, tried to compensate Mrs H for the disadvantage 
she has suffered.
I appreciate Mrs H feels ReAssure should also pay a lump sum equivalent to the income 
payments she expected to receive, until she is able to sell her home. I am sympathetic to the 
very difficult situation Mrs H is in, but I cant reasonably require ReAssure to make payments 
that Mrs H was not entitled to under the terms of the policy.
I note that Mrs H has said that the provisional decision was the first time she knew that the 
payments would not be reinstated. I apologise if there has been any confusion on this point, 
but the investigator explained in the view she sent to Mrs H in May 2021 that she did not 
think ReAssure could be required to reinstate the payments. Likewise ReAssure had also 
told Mrs H that it did not intend to reinstate the payments.
I do understand that Mrs H feels the £4,500 award (in addition to the £1,000 already offered 
by ReAssure) I proposed for the very significant distress and inconvenience she has 
suffered as a result of discovering that the benefit she understood she would receive for life 
was only payable to mid-2018 is insufficient. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, 
my proposed award is in-line with the level of award this service makes where a customer 
has suffered significant severe distress as a result of errors by a business. I cant reasonably 
find that ReAssure should pay more.
(In my provisional decision I asked Mrs H to let me know if she wished to reconsider her 
position that she was willing to disregard tax she may have overpaid prior to April 2013 in the 
interests of resolving this complaint. As Mrs H has not responded on this point I have not 
made any award in relation to tax she may have overpaid prior to April 2013, due to 
ReAssures errors.)
summary
Where a business makes a mistake, or in this case a number of mistakes over a long period, 
this service would expect the business to be mindful of the impact its mistakes have had on 
its customer when considering how to put things right.Mrs H was in a very vulnerable position when she lost her husband. I dont think it was 
reasonable for ReAssure to maintain its position that as Mrs H signed a discharge form in 
2008, shortly after her husband had died, she should have known that the numerous letters 
it sent to her over the next ten years, telling her the income from the plan was taxable and 
that the plan was a lifetime annuity, were incorrect.
When the payments stopped in mid-2018, without any warning, it is clear from Mrs Hs 
letters and emails to ReAssure at that time that she was in a difficult position financially and 
was finding the situation very distressing. Despite this for several months ReAssure simply 
ignored Mrs Hs concerns. I think this was both unfair and unreasonable.
Likewise, despite the payments having stopped in mid-2018 ReAssure now says it has not 
corrected Mrs Hs tax position with HMRC and as a result Mrs H is still not able to re-claim 
the tax she has overpaid for the 2017/18 and 2018/19 tax years. This is despite Mrs H first 
having raised this issue with ReAssure in late 2018 and ReAssure having told this service in 
July 2021 that it had corrected Mrs Hs tax position with HMRC. I think it is unfair and 
unreasonable for ReAssure to now say it has not corrected Mrs Hs tax position and that she 
will have to sort this out herself.
Having very carefully considered this complaint, my decision is that it should be upheld.
Putting things right
What ReAssure needs to do to put matters right
As I set out above, ReAssure should pay Mrs H £3,500 for the very significant distress and 
worry she has experienced as a result of the incorrect information she received on numerous 
occasions that led her to understand that the plan was a pension annuity and that the 
payments were taxable.
It should also pay Mrs H a further £1,000 (making a total of £4,500) for the distress it caused 
Mrs H when it ignored her complaints, despite having been made aware of her very difficult 
financial situation and the worry and stress the situation was causing her. This award of 
£4,500 is in addition to the £1,000 compensation offer that ReAssure has already made 
under this heading.
It should also pay Mrs H a lump sum to cover the tax she wrongly paid to HMRC on the 
payments she received from April 2013 to May 2015.
It should pay 8% simple interest per year on these amounts, to the date of my final decision.
It should also pay Mrs H a lump sum to cover the tax she wrongly paid for the tax years 
2017/18 and 2018/19 on the payments she received from this plan.
And it should pay 8% simple interest per year on these amounts, to the date of my final 
decision.
As I set out above, ReAssure may then choose to seek repayment of the overpaid tax for 
this period from HMRC if it so wishes. If it requires a letter from Mrs H that it can provide to 
HMRC confirming that the overpaid tax for this period should be paid directly to ReAssure, 
Mrs H should provide this as a condition of receiving the redress for this period.
If ReAssure wishes to verify the amounts Mrs Hs accountant has calculated she overpaid to 
HMRC as a result of the incorrect information it provided, it may require appropriate 
confirmation from Mrs Hs accountant as a condition of paying this part of the redress due to Mrs H. It should pay Mrs Hs accountant directly for any costs involved in providing the 
documentation it requires.
In addition should it subsequently come to light that HMRC intends to impose a Reg 80 
penalty (or any other penalty) on Mrs H in respect of the tax ReAssure has refunded to her 
for any or all of the above periods, ReAssure should meet the full amount of any such 
penalty.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs H within 28 days of the date 
ReAssure receives notification of Mrs Hs acceptance of this final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 28 days, that it takes 
ReAssure to pay Mrs H.
If gathering the information ReAssure requires (if any is required) from Mrs Hs accountant to 
verify the tax Mrs H overpaid, takes longer than 28 days, any period of time where the delay 
is not caused by ReAssure may be added to the 28 day period in which interest wont apply.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ReAssure deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs H how much it has taken off. ReAssure should give Mrs H a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one so that she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
My final decision
Having very carefully considered this complaint, my decision is that it should be upheld.
I have set out above how I think this complaint should be fairly resolved.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman