DRN-3029069
complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a store 
card.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
One of our adjudicators looked into this case and said they didnt think we should uphold it. 
Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
The PPI was added in May 2001, by which time Mrs C had already been operating her card 
account without any PPI for several months. The records show the PPI was added by way of 
a telephone marketing call. We no longer have access to the call recording, but that isnt 
unusual given how long ago it was. However, from our experience, we think its more likely 
that the agent selling the PPI would have followed a script. And from what Ive seen, 
consumers like Mrs C were asked to consent to the PPI being added before it was loaded on 
to their account.
So, I think Mrs C would have been able to understand at the time that the PPI wasnt 
something she needed to have. She would have also been able to see the PPI charges 
starting to show up on her accounts statements. Ive seen nothing that suggests she 
challenged these at the time. So I think its more likely her consent was given during the call.
This wasnt an advised sale and so it was for Mrs C to decide for herself what she wanted 
to do. AXA had a responsibility to provide clear information to allow her to make that 
decision.
Its certainly possible AXA could have explained the policy in more detail than it did, although 
I think Mrs C probably would have been told what the policy covered and that a cost was 
involved. Even if I accept more could have been explained by AXA, I dont think this makes 
any difference to my overall decision.
This is because the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs C, for example she wasnt 
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. So I dont think the policy was 
too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
most likely given at the point of sale.
I see there were some additional policy rules about the cover for back problems and stress 
related disorders, but I have seen nothing to suggest that these would have mattered too 
much to Mrs C in her situation. I also doubt she would have expected to claim for a back 
problem, for example, without first providing at least some evidence, which is what the rules 
required. 
Ive noted her representative said she had hay fever in 1976. As the problem seemed to be 
controlled and some 25 years prior to the PPI sale, Im afraid I dont think this is relevant. 
Overall, I think Mrs C was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The PPI would have paid off 15% of her 
outstanding credit card balance each month for up to a year if shed needed to claim. 
Looking at Mrs Cs job and general circumstances, I think this would have been useful.
Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of her individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Cs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
my final decision
Having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman