DRN-3941220
The complaint
Mr D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd unfairly declined his application to open an account 
with it and wouldnt tell him why.
What happened
Mr D applied for an account with Monzo in August 2022, however this was declined. Mr D 
asked Monzo to review this and wanted to know the reasons behind its decision. There was 
some further correspondence between the parties however Monzos decision remained 
unchanged.
Mr D didnt think it was fair that Monzo had declined his application and he was unhappy it 
didnt provide a reason behind its decision. Mr D also says hed asked Monzo to review his 
application, but he never heard back. So, Mr D complained.
Monzo looked into Mr Ds complaint. It said it assessed applications based on the 
information applicants provided and based on what it had seen it couldnt offer Mr D an 
account. Monzo said it appreciated the frustration caused but said it couldnt provide further 
detail about its decision. However, Monzo thought the service offered to Mr D could have 
been better and acknowledged it could have dealt with matters sooner. It offered Mr D £25 
compensation.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
reviewed matters and didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint was upheld. In summary, he 
explained that Monzo had a regulatory requirement to assess each application. And, he 
didnt think it had treated Mr D unfairly by declining his application. He acknowledged the 
service provided could have been better but he thought Monzos offer of £25 was 
reasonable.
Monzo didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr D did and mostly repeated his earlier 
points. Ultimately an agreement hasnt been reached, so the case has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D wants to know why Monzo declined his application to open an account. Monzo has 
said it is unable to disclose the reasons it declined the application in line with its terms and 
conditions and regulatory obligations. Whilst I understand why Mr D would be frustrated 
about this, Monzos position here isnt unusual in the circumstances. And, I want to reassure 
Mr D that I have reviewed Monzos reasons for declining his application as an impartial 
third-party, and Im satisfied they were legitimate. 
Following Monzos decision, Mr D asked some further questions about why his application 
had been declined. Whilst Monzo would have been entitled to maintain its position, it instead 
asked Mr D some further questions, including one about his income. Monzo pointed out that 
Mr D declared that he was unemployed and also had an income of £25,000, and asked 
where this income was from. Mr D provided an explanation in response to this, however it 
wasnt enough to persuade Monzo to open an account for him. 
On balance, Im satisfied Monzo did consider the additional information Mr D provided. And 
whilst I appreciate it would have been disappointing for Mr D to have his application 
declined, Monzos decision about approving the application remained unchanged. I dont 
think this was an unreasonable decision, given that it still had legitimate concerns about the 
information provided.
Monzo has acknowledged that the service it provided to Mr D could have been better, and 
that what should have been a straightforward resolution took longer than hoped. I agree with 
this, and I think Monzo could have been more responsive to the questions and concerns 
Mr D raised. Monzo apologised for the delay in responding to Mr Ds complaint and offered 
him £25 compensation for the poor service he received. Im satisfied this is a fair and 
reasonable amount in the circumstances and I find Monzo should pay this to Mr D, if it hasnt 
already done so.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr D £25 compensation for the 
poor service it offered him, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman