DRN-3043029
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) hasnt upheld her complaint, 
following its rejection of the claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the Act), for a solar panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the 
supplier.
What happened
In early 2015, Mrs H, and her now sadly deceased husband, were visited by a representative 
of a company, Ill call P, to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. During the visit, Mr and Mrs H decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
Mrs H is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (the CMC). In 
2016, the CMC made a claim on Mrs Hs behalf for the mis-sale of the system, holding 
Shawbrook liable under section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had 
made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it 
was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs H to enter into the contract with 
P. The CMC said that, amongst others, the following misrepresentations and failings had 
been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £13,555 to 
mislead Mrs H  this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, so 
the true cost was over £23,000; 
Mrs H was promised a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £1,003.10. The CMC said that this 
didnt take into account that after making her loan repayments Mrs H would have an 
actual annual deficit of what it says is £743.01; 
the credit agreement would be self-funded by the Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments 
alone; 
the system would not cost her a penny; and
she would make savings on her electricity bills.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mrs H and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations made 
about the systems expected performance.
The CMC also said that Mrs H was in her 60s at the point of sale and it is questionable that 
she was sold a product that wouldnt provide a benefit for 15 years.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided it with: a copy of a record 
of a non-compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) dated 
December2013; copies of marketing material used by P, job adverts for P, the loan 
agreement with Shawbrook and some of Mrs Hs electricity bills and FIT statements.
In its final response to this complaint Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information it 
held on file, as well as information provided by P, that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs H or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. In 
summary, it said:
the contract P had provided Mrs H set out the expected total returns from the system 
and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was not 
self-funding immediately and that there would be a cost involved; 
the contract with P showed that the expected annual return in year one was 
£1,003.10, whereas the loan agreement repayments were £110.08 a month, or 
£1,320.96 over the year, so there would be a shortfall between the expected benefits 
and the loan repayments; 
the performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract;
the electricity bills provided were based on estimated readings so there was no 
evidence that Mrs H wasnt getting the savings that had been estimated; 
Shawbrook didnt pay any commission to P for introducing Mrs H to it.
Unhappy with this response, the CMC referred Mrs Hs complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the information and 
evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that there was sufficient evidence that P had 
misrepresented the system to Mrs H and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
the quotation the investigator based their view on is unsigned and was not seen by 
Mrs H; 
the self-consumption of electricity used when predicting the benefits should be at a 
rate of 37% and P exaggerated the savings by using a higher rate; 
the repayments section of the quote doesnt make it clear that Mrs H would need to 
make a contribution each month; 
the tables and graphs dont compare the benefits to the loan repayments and are 
hard to understand; 
the sales representative told Mrs H numerous times that the system would be self-
funding; and
the quotation is generated post-purchase and Mrs H did not possess the relevant 
expertise to understand its contents even if she had seen it.
It also suggested that we speak to Mrs H for her recollections. When our investigator spoke 
to Mrs H, she told us:
P told her that the FIT would cover the loan repayments; 
She thought the agreement was over 10 years but found out it was over 15 years; 
She repaid the loan early when her husband sadly passed away; and
She confirmed seeing the quote and said that she still has all the paperwork.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case, the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
As Mrs H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, the parties accept that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs H could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way she could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
I will consider below whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Mrs Hs solar quote. Ive considered these in detail 
and whether they support the representations alleged to have been made by P.The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Hs recollection of the sale.
In response to the investigators assessment, the CMC told us that Mrs H didnt receive or 
sign the quote. Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ps sale 
processes. This detailed that Ps sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the 
consumers shortly after the initial meeting. Based on our experience of what we have seen 
with similar complaints, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, P would have sent 
this document to Mrs H and I have no reason to doubt thats what happened in this 
complaint. I understand that Mrs H has also confirmed to our investigator that she saw a 
copy of the quote.
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The FIT payments
Mrs H has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by her FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and thought 
about whether this supports what she says she was told as I consider the quote was central 
to the sales presentation.
Page ten of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs H could expect to receive by way 
of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income 
over 20 years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, clearly show that Mrs H could expect to 
receive a total income in year one of £557.25 from her FIT.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs H could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £445.85 and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £1,186.69. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
There is a page titled system performance and returns with a series of tables. Theres a 
section titled PSP scheme: repayment options. This has three tables set out over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs H entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 
180 monthly payments of £108.29 due and compares the overall expected grand total return 
from the system, averaged on a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs H could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and electricity savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to 
her monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect 
to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover her monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that she was 
told that her monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone. Whilst I 
note that the figure for the loan repayments is slightly different to the actual fixed monthly 
sum that Mrs H was to pay, I dont consider the difference material here as the table still 
indicated the deficit in income against expenditure.
Total cost of the system and expected benefits
Mrs H has said that the cost of the system was documented as £13,555. She has said that 
this was done to mislead her as this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan, so hid the true cost of the system, £23,369.40.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mrs H makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£13,555. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the total amount of 
credit is £10,000 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £23,369.40.
As the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, as 
set out in the table above, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £13,555, it would cost 
Mrs H more than this as she had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan. Its also 
important to note here that Mrs H wasnt borrowing the full cost of the system. She and her 
husband put down a deposit of over £3,000, leaving £10,000 to be financed. Mrs H also later 
repaid £5,000 of the loan after her husbands death. And has since settled the loan in its 
entirety. So, the system wont actually end up costing her the £23,000 odd quoted, interest 
having been saved through the early repayments.
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs H that the system would not cost her a penny, and that 
she could expect to receive a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £1,003.10.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing
the two.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mrs H was expected to have made a 
loss of £9.40 a month and in the second year this would decrease to a loss of £3.63 a 
month. It wouldnt be until year three that the expected benefits would exceed her monthly 
loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt have been until around year five that 
she would have sufficiently recouped any previous annual losses and the system would be 
paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
and Im unable to conclude that Mrs H was told that the system would not cost her a penny. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between her expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Mrs H was told that shed receive a year one benefit of £1,003.10 as this 
was the expected combined income from FIT payments and electricity savings on her 
energy bills. But having said that, taking into account the available evidence, Im not 
persuaded that Mrs H was led to believe that shed receive this sum as cash in her hand. Im 
satisfied that the quote makes it clear that shed have to make loan repayments and overall 
there would be a deficit.
I also accept that Mrs H was told by P that the system would pay for itself over 14 years. The 
system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the performance 
over 20 years.
This shows that by year 14 the overall benefits that Mrs H could expect to receive would 
have exceeded the total amount payable under her loan agreement. This table also sets out 
the panel degradation rate. So, Im satisfied that P made her aware that performance of the 
system would deteriorate over its lifetime. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs H that the system would pay for itself by 
year 14, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, that might amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs H. The quotation sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 3,426.08 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT 
payments and savings in her energy bills, that Mrs H could expect to receive.
Mrs H has provided her FIT statements that show between 16 April 2015 and 13 April 2016 
the system generated 3,543 kWh. I think this shows that the system was at that time 
performing slightly better than the estimations provided at the point of sale. 
So, based on this, I would expect Mrs H to be close to recouping any initial losses from the 
system and for it to be paying for itself. Mrs H has said that this isnt the case so Ive gone on 
to consider whether P have overstated the potential income and savings Mrs H could expect 
to receive by, for example, using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote P provided to Mrs H was personalised to her specific circumstances and used a 
number of underlying assumptions to calculate the income and benefits she could expect to 
receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included: the expected annual 
generation in kWh from the system; the amount of energy generated by the system that Mrs 
H would use rather than buying it from her energy provider, therefore leading to savings on 
her energy bills; and the expected increase in utility prices alongside the expected annual 
increase in RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI were based on the 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013.
Weve been provided with a recent FIT statement from July 2021 that indicated that over the 
last 6 years since the system was installed, it has generated around 23,000 kWh of 
electricity. And the FIT payments made to date amount to almost £4,000. So, thats an 
average generation of around 3,800 kWh a year and average FIT payments of over £600 a 
year. It would therefore appear that the system is working in excess of the predictions. And 
the income has therefore been greater as a result too.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the figures provided 
in the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements 
provided, that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the 
quote.
The quote sets out that Mrs H was expected to use, or self-consume, 85% of the kWh 
generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual saving of 
£445.85. This amount of saving would increase each year in line with the ONS data Ive
mentioned above.
The CMC responded to the investigators view and explained that they believed a 37% self-
consumption rate would be fair. This is based on a report completed by a solar expert 
several years after Mrs Hs system was sold.
Shawbrook have provided detailed information about Ps sale process in relation to 
calculating the amount of energy a consumer would self-consume from the system. They 
explained that they would ask a consumer what their current electricity consumption and 
cost was and then use this information to estimate the potential savings.
At the point of sale, Mrs H told P that her current electricity spend was £70 (£840 per year) 
and P used this to calculate the potential savings of the system. Between June 2013 and 2014 Mrs Hs electricity usage was 2,604.28 kWh or £444.84. This 
is significantly less than what she told P at the point of sale. Although I note that the bills 
were based on estimated readings, so the quoted usage may not be reliable.
I think Ps method for calculating the self-consumption rate is reasonable and was 
personalised to Mrs Hs own circumstances, based on the information she provided at the 
time of the sale. I dont think its unreasonable for them to ask their consumer what their 
current electricity spend is and then rely on this information to calculate the electricity 
savings the system would generate.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy that Mrs H was expected to self-consume were 
both reasonable assumptions for P to have made, given the information they were provided 
at the point of sale.
When estimating the future income and electricity savings that Mrs H could expect to receive 
from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line with the 
available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases was 8.42% 
and for RPI was 2.92%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 2015 to 
2020 to see whether both energy prices and RPI have increased in line with the estimates 
provided by P. The data from the ONS suggests that energy prices have increased by 3.7% 
and RPI by 2.56%. Both of these figures are lower than the assumptions used by P and in 
my view may explain why Mrs H isnt receiving the financial returns from the system that she 
may have expected.
The assumptions used by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS from 2004 to 2013. Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate the expected financial returns from the system. Im of the 
view that this goes some way to explaining why the system may not turn out to be self-
funding by year 14. Although I appreciate Mrs H will be disappointed by the financial returns 
from her system, Im satisfied that this isnt due to P using unreasonable assumptions when 
she entered into the contract for the system.
I also note that the purchase contract indicates that Mrs H had a battery system supplied 
with her panels. That would have enabled Mrs H to store a proportion of the energy that the 
system was generating. And this will accordingly have fed into the predictions about how 
much energy she was likely to use and therefore benefit from in terms of cost saving. So, Im 
satisfied that there were reasonable grounds for P making the estimations predicted.
I have thought about The CMCs concerns that Mrs H was over 60 when the panels were 
sold to her. And they have a fairly lengthy payback time. But I dont think that this means that 
P shouldnt have sold her the panels. It just makes it all the more important that P explained 
the benefits of the panels and their expected payback period. And Ive found that in the 
circumstances of this complaint it more likely than not did.
S140A of the Act
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A of the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there was an unfair relationship here under the Act.
Other considerations
The CMC provided us with additional evidence that is says evidences the 
misrepresentations made to Mrs H. This included the marketing literature used by P along 
with the findings of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel 
hearing from December 2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant conclude that 
this was provided to Mrs H, or that it relates to the time her panels were sold. Whilst it does 
refer to the system paying for itself and being self-funding, Im not persuaded I can place 
much weight on this, especially when considered along with Mrs Hs personalised quote. 
And, as I have explained above, at the time Mrs H entered into the contract with P, Im 
satisfied that her system would have been self-funding and pay for itself by year 14 from 
installation.
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013, over a year before Mrs 
H entered into the contract with P. Shawbrook has also provided information from Trading 
Standards, setting out that it had been working with P since the findings to improve Ps sales 
process. This work included Trading Standards helping P to enhance their business 
paperwork and documentation to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation. This has 
ultimately led to P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC findings found concerns with Ps sales practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved prior to Mrs H entering into the contract. And I have to take account of the 
particular circumstances of this case, along with the wider, contemporaneous evidence.
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that the quotation is unsigned and was 
not seen by Mrs H. As explained above, I am satisfied that the quote was likely sent to Mrs H 
and she saw a copy at the point of sale. 
The CMC have also explained that they believe the quotation is generated post-purchase 
and was not provided to Mrs H at the point of sale. I have seen no evidence to support that 
the quotation was generated post purchase. I note that the CMC has provided a one-page 
written contract, and this contains the same annual generation, year one FIT and electricity 
savings. Mrs H has also told our investigator that she saw the quote.
Mrs H said that she originally thought the agreement was over 10 years and later found it 
was over 15 years. I think the loan agreement makes it clear that the loan term is 15 years 
and thats whats on all the documentation. So, Im afraid there isnt enough evidence here 
for me to find that Mrs H was told anything other than that this was a 15-year loan.
Ive noted from the documentation that the cooling off period and cancellation rights were set 
out for Mrs H and that the 20-year warranty on the inverter is also clearly included. Mrs H 
signed a letter confirming that she was happy to have the panels installed before the end of 
the cancellation period and so I havent found any evidence to support the CMCs allegations 
in that regard either. Mrs H also filled out a customer satisfaction survey in which she 
confirmed that she was happy everything had been explained to her and that she and her 
husband had not felt pressurised into agreeing to the sale. So again, I havent found any 
evidence to support those allegations either.Finally, the CMC alleged that Shawbrook hadnt carried out suitable enquiries to check that 
this loan was affordable. Ive seen evidence that credit checks were undertaken. And given 
that the loan has now been repaid in full early, theres nothing to indicate that this finance 
was unaffordable.
Conclusion
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by the parties to this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs H to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this
complaint.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint and I wont be making any award 
against Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman