DRN-4040489
The complaint
This complaint is brought by a company which I will refer to as F.
Fs complaint, in summary, is that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to prevent a loss to them when 
they fell victim to an authorised push payment scam. F further says that HSBC did very little 
to assist them after the bank was advised of the scam.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, in late 2021, F was in discussion with a company based abroad for supply of certain 
goods. In November 2021 they paid this company about $123,000 which they thought was 
advance payment for the goods to be supplied.  Unfortunately, it later transpired that it was 
all a scam. F reported this to their bank HSBC who in turn contacted the recipient bank but 
were advised that no funds remained on the account.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that it couldnt be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The relevant payment was significantly higher than normal payments out of Fs account 
and so it ought to have been flagged by the bank as suspicious.
However, even if the bank had intervened, it is likely the payment would still have gone 
through. This is because the scammer had gone to great lengths to persuade F that they 
were dealing with a genuine party. So, it is most likely that F would have confirmed to 
HSBC, had they intervened and queried the payment, that the payment was genuine and 
allowed the bank to release the payment.
F did not agree. Through their representative, they said that had the bank intervened and 
asked all the right questions, that would have prompted F to carry out further investigations 
and the scam would have come to light. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that F has unfortunately fallen victim to a sophisticated scam. They have provided 
detailed submissions to support their complaint, which I have read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in less detail, as a 
discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to 
set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. However, there are circumstances 
where it might be appropriate for banks to take additional steps  as for example have 
systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that 
its customers were at risk of fraud.
I have reviewed Fs account statements from January 2021 to understand the general 
account activity. Over the period, I see that this was an active account with several large 
payments, typically averaging $15,000. There have been regular higher payments too, 
ranging from about $30,000 to $90,000. For example, I see that few weeks before the 
disputed payment, F made a payment of about $80,000. 
The disputed payment was higher in value when compared to other payments made during 
this period. However, occasional higher payments could happen on an account. It was a 
foreign payment. However, this was a dollar account, so presumably intended to help 
payments abroad. And from what I can see, F have made payments from it abroad. So, the 
fact that this was a foreign payment wouldnt in itself had been a cause for concern. 
Further, I see that the account usually tends to have a low balance.  It seems that typically, 
prior to making big payments out the account, adequate funds were transferred in and the 
payment was then made leaving the account in low balance again. That is what happened 
on this occasion too. 
Ultimately, it is a matter for HSBC as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate.  But where it is alleged that it didnt 
do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an authorised push payment fraud, I will 
look into the circumstances of the case and based on what I have seen, decide whether in 
that case HSBC could have fairly and reasonably done more. 
After taking all of the above into account, I cant say that the disputed payment stood out 
sufficiently from the prior account activity to reasonably have prompted HSBC to take further 
action. Im not persuaded that there is enough here for me to find HSBC at fault for carrying 
out Fs payment instruction in line with its primary obligation to do so.
Nevertheless, even if I conclude that HSBC ought to have intervened given the amount 
involved, I agree with the Investigator the payment would still likely have gone through.
Without the benefit of hindsight, it is difficult to know exactly what would have happened had 
HSBC intervened.  So, I have considered what more likely have happened.
As the Investigator explained, HSBCs objective here would have been to check that F were 
aware who they were paying to and that they were satisfied they did necessary checks to 
verify the legitimacy of the company they were sending the funds to. 
It seems to me that by the time F made the payment, they were satisfied that they were 
dealing with a legitimate company. As I understand it, the scammer contacted F via email 
soliciting business. F carried out due diligence on the company and were satisfied they were 
genuine. They then continued to have conversation with the scammer via email and later via 
WhatsApp. There were several exchanges between the parties (and this went on for nearly 
two months before the payment), and I see that the scammer was able to satisfactorily 
answer Fs queries about the goods to be bought. And on the face of it the documents they 
sent appeared to be genuine. There were some spelling errors in one of the documents, but the scammer had previously made it known to F that they werent good at English. So, this 
might not have been a cause for concern. 
Further, Fs representative has said that because F was unable to visit the supplier in 
person, they exchanged images and videos to assure that they were genuine. And as part of 
the checks, F says they called the genuine company using the number provided on the 
website and confirmed that they did have a staff by the same name as the person who was 
corresponding with F.  
I consider that through all of this F was convinced that they were dealing with a genuine 
company. 
F says had HSBC intervened and advised them to call the intended payee and confirm the 
payment details they would have done so, and the fraud would have come to light. 
As noted earlier, F says that they called the genuine company using a number on their 
website. However, it appears that there was also a fake website of the scammer. When the 
Investigator questioned F to ascertain which one of the websites F relied on to call the 
company and asked for a link to both websites to be sent, F said that they were not currently 
aware of the web address. So, it is difficult for me to know for certain which number F would 
have called had HSBC advised them to do so, and what the outcome would have been.
Nevertheless, I am of the view that had HSBC intervened and questioned F about the 
payment, F would have most likely confirmed that they were making payment to a genuine 
company and explained their interactions with the payee (as noted earlier). I consider that 
would have been sufficient for HSBC to release the payment.
F also says that HSBC did very little to assist them after the bank was advised of the scam. I 
see from the available submission that after F reported the scam to the bank, there was a 
slight delay on its part to contact the recipients bank (based abroad).  But I agree with the 
Investigator the delay would unlikely have made a difference. This is because by the time F 
reported the fraud to the bank four weeks had passed. It is usually the case that the 
fraudsters move funds away from the receiving account quickly. So, it is most likely the funds 
would have been dispersed from the recipients account well before F discovered and 
reported the scam to the bank. Further, I can see that HSBC sent regular chasers to the 
recipients bank before being told by that bank that no funds remained. Overall, I am unable 
to conclude that the bank failed to assist F on being advised of the fraud.
I know this will come as a disappointment to F. I am aware that they are strongly of the 
opinion that their bank let them down on this occasion. But I can only make an award against 
a bank if that bank has done something wrong which has led to a loss. In this case, for the 
reasons given I am not persuaded that there was any error or omission on part of HSBC 
which has resulted in Fs loss. And as such I cant fairly or reasonably ask it to refund their 
loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman