DRN-3516528
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money and their decision to 
close her account following her daughters visit to a local branch.
What happened
Mrs M held a current account with Clydesdale. Before Mrs Ms daughter visited her local 
branch, Mrs M had experienced issues when attempting to pay cheques into her accounts. 
Because of this, Mrs M asked that her daughter obtain a receipt for the cheques she paid 
into Mrs Ms account on her behalf.
So, when Mrs Ms daughter attended her local branch on 1 April 2021, her daughter 
explained to branch staff that she was unable to use the deposit boxes to cash in the 
cheques shed been given by Mrs M.
So, a member of branch staff processed the deposit manually. But during this process, Mrs 
M says her daughter was told she couldnt deposit the cheques on Mrs Ms behalf due to 
anti-money laundering legislation. Mrs M says her daughter queried this, as shed been able 
to deposit cheques with Clydesdale and other banks previously. Clydesdale continued to 
process the cheques on this occasion. But Mrs M says her daughter was told she wouldnt 
be served at that branch again. And after her daughters visit, Mrs M says she received a call 
from the branch manager regarding the situation, which ended with a call being terminated.
Shortly after, Mrs M received a letter from Clydesdale dated 1 April that explained her 
account would be closed on 1 June. Mrs M was unhappy about this, so she raised a 
complaint.
Mrs M thought Clydesdales decision to close her account was evidence of both victimisation 
and discrimination. She thought the account was being closed due to the complaints she 
had made previously, which she didnt think was fair. And she thought the branch had 
discriminated against, and been unfair to, her daughter when she attended on her behalf. 
Mrs M was also unhappy that Clydesdales decision had left her needing to open a new 
account, which required her attending another banks branch, during the COVID-19 
pandemic which she thought failed to take notice of her status as a vulnerable customer. So, 
Mrs M wanted Clydesdale to conduct a proper investigation into the issue, evidence of this 
investigation to be supplied and for Clydesdale to apologise and re-open her account.
Clydesdale responded and didnt agree. They thought they were entitled to ask customers 
questions regarding transactions in accordance with banking regulations. So, they dont think 
they treated Mrs Ms daughter unfairly in branch. And they thought their decision to close the 
account was fair, due to the way they believed their staff were treated in branch by Mrs Ms 
daughter on 1 April. And they were satisfied theyd given Mrs M the correct amount of notice 
regarding the account closure, in line with the terms of the account. So, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mrs M remained unhappy with this response, so she referred 
her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained there was no 
CCTV footage, or call recordings, of the events that took place on 1 April for him to consider. 
So, he explained he was unable to say for sure exactly what happened in branch and on the 
call between Mrs M and the branch manager on the same day. And because of this, he was 
unable to say that Mrs M and her daughter had been victimised or discriminated against.
And he explained that Clydesdale were able to close Mrs Ms account, without any reason 
being needed, as long as 60 days notice was provided. And he was satisfied that 
Clydesdale had notified Mrs M of their intentions. So, while he recognised the inconvenience 
this caused Mrs M of having to find a new account during the COVID-19 pandemic, he didnt 
think he could say Clydesdale had acted unfairly. And so, he didnt think Clydesdale needed 
to do anything more.
Mrs M didnt agree. And she provided several comments as to why. Our investigation 
considered these comments, but his view remained the same and so, Mrs Ms complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs M. I understand Mrs Ms 
daughter was left upset by the service she received in branch. So, I can understand why, as 
her mother, Mrs M would be left aggravated and upset at this. And I can appreciate how this 
wouldve been made worse when Mrs M received notice that her account would be closed 
as this wasnt something she had planned for or intended. I also dont dispute the 
inconvenience Mrs M wouldve been caused when needing to find a new current account 
and the process she is likely to have gone through to set this up. 
But for me to say Clydesdale should apologise, and re-open Mrs Ms account, Id need to be 
satisfied that Clydesdale made an error when closing it. So, Id need to be satisfied they 
failed to act within the terms of Mrs Ms account when closing the account. Or, if I think they 
did act within these, that it was unfair of them to do so. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
Before I explained why Ive reached the decision that I have, I think it would be useful to 
explain exactly what Ive been able to consider. I recognise Mrs M has concerns about the 
way Clydesdale investigated her complaint and how they responded to her Data Subject 
Access Request (DSAR). But our service is unable to consider, or comment on, the way a 
business such as Clydesdale handles a complaint. This is because complaint handling isnt 
a regulated activity and so, falls outside of our jurisdiction. For this reason, I havent 
considered Clydesdales complaint handling any further.
And our service is also unable to investigate or fine a business for a failure to comply with a 
DSAR. This would fall under the remit of the Information Commissioners Office, as they 
regulate data protection within the UK. So again, this isnt something Ive commented on any 
further.
Instead, my decision focuses on Clydesdales decision to close Mrs Ms account. And 
alongside this, Ive thought about Mrs Ms claims that this decision, and the service they provided, was both victimising and discriminating.
Ive looked at the terms of the account Mrs M held with Clydesdale. And these terms explain 
that Clydesdale can close your account whenever we like as long as we write to you or e-
mail you to let you know two months before it closes.  
So, I dont think Clydesdale needed a reason for the account closure, as long as Mrs M was 
provided notice of this. I can see Clydesdale wrote to Mrs M on 1 April 2021, explaining the 
account would be closed on 1 June. And I can see the closure was processed on 2 June. 
So, I think Clydesdale acted in line with the terms of the account when closing it, as the 
relevant noticed was provided. And I dont think they needed to provide a reason as to why 
this decision was made.
But I can see in Clydesdales response to Mrs Ms complaint, they did provide their 
reasoning, stating the account was closed due to the behaviour of Mrs Ms daughter in 
branch. As a reason was provided, I think its reasonable for me to consider whether this 
was fair.
Unfortunately, Clydesdale have been unable to provide CCTV footage or a copy of the call 
recording between the branch and Mrs M after her daughters visit. So, Im unable to say for 
certain exactly what did happen in branch when Mrs Ms daughter attended. Because of this, 
Im unable to say that Clydesdales branch staff victimised or discriminated against Mrs M or 
her daughter, as I dont have any evidence to support this allegation and I think evidence is 
needed due to the seriousness of it.
But I think I can say with relative certainty is that there was a disagreement between the 
branch staff and Mrs Ms daughter when she attended. And from the testimony provided by 
both parties, I think this disagreement revolved around the questions asked of Mrs Ms 
daughter when she attempted to pay cheques in on behalf of Mrs M. 
Again, while Im unable to know exactly what was said, Ive been able to think about whether 
I feel Clydesdale were fair to question Mrs Ms daughter about the cheques she was paying 
in. And I think they were. Banks such as Clydesdale have a duty to protect a customers 
account from potentially fraudulent activity. And in this situation, someone other that Mrs M 
herself, without any form of authority over the account, was attempting to make transactions 
into it. So, Id expect Clydesdale to ask questions to satisfy themselves that these 
transactions had been approved by Mrs M. And because of this, I cant say they were unfair 
to do so.
I appreciate Mrs Ms daughters testimony that she was told she couldnt pay these cheques 
in, which contradicted the actions taken by Clydesdale themselves and other banks 
previously. And I recognise the confusion this may have caused if this is what was 
communicated. But crucially, I can see that Clydesdale allowed the cheques to be deposited. 
So, I dont think Mrs M lost out financially during this visit.
So, all I am able to be sure of is that there was clearly a disagreement between branch staff 
and Mrs Ms daughter during her visit. And I think Im able to reasonably assume that both 
the branch staff and Mrs M came away from that conversation feeling as though they had 
been unfairly treated. Again, Im unable to place blame on either party, as Im unable to 
know for certain what was said. But Clydesdales terms do explain theyre able to close an 
account without any notice if youve been threatening to any of our team. And I think 
theyve made it reasonably clear this is how they felt Mrs Ms daughter acted. 
So, in this situation, Clydesdale wouldve been able to close Mrs Ms account without notice. 
But they didnt do this, and they gave Mrs M 60 days notice which allowed her time to ensure she had a new current account in place before her Clydesdale account was closed. I 
think this shows Clydesdale acting fairly and taking into consideration Mrs Ms vulnerabilities 
which were even more significant due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Because of this, I dont 
think I can say Clydesdale have done anything wrong and so, I dont think they need to do 
anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs M was hoping for. And I appreciate Mrs M has 
concerns about Clydesdales inability to provide CCTV and call evidence and she thinks 
Clydesdale may have destroyed it to hamper our services investigation. But this isnt 
something I have seen evidence of, nor is it something Im able to assume. Clydesdale have 
no legal obligation to retain CCTV footage or call recordings for any specific length of time 
and so, I cant say their failure to provide this is proof of any wrongdoing. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaints about Clydesdale Bank 
Plc trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman