DRN-4259098
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have not honoured a money 
transfer promotion at 0% interest.
What happened
Mr F completed a money transfer on 3 August 2022 for £2500 on his online banking at 0% 
interest. He later complained to Halifax because the money transfer wasnt processed at 0% 
but instead at the standard interest rate of 30.03%.
Halifax acknowledged that it had made an error. It sent a final response to Mr F on 14 
September 2022 and said it had arranged for the money transfer of £2500 to be put on 0%. 
The letter stated that your current full balance of £6730.17 will be on this interest rate 
promotion. Halifax also made a payment of £50 to Mr F in recognition of the upset caused.
In December 2022 Mr F noticed that Halifax had started charging interest on his full balance. 
He complained to Halifax and said this was contrary to the final response they had sent to 
him on 14 September 2022.
In its final response dated 25 April 2023, Halifax apologised for not getting things right. It 
said it had arranged for Mr Fs money transfer of £2500 to be reinstated to 0% and had 
refunded all interest charged. It paid Mr F £60 by way of apology. Halifax said it understood 
that Mr F thought that all of his plans should be at 0%. It said this wasnt an appropriate 
outcome because it had made an error in September 2022 when checking the interest rate 
across all of his promotional plans and had wrongly advised him that the interest rate for all 
promotions was 0%. It advised Mr F that the rate of interest for the promotional offer for 
£5000 which had taken on 23 May 2022 was 3.9% until 23 May 2025.
Mr F remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He says that Halifax had 
agreed to put his total balance on 0% and he wanted them to honour the agreement, refund 
interest and pay compensation.
Following the referral of Mr Fs complaint to this service, Halifax offered a further £40 
compensation to resolve the complaint. Mr F didnt accept this offer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although he understood Mr Fs 
concerns about being told the interest rate would be 0%, this was an error made by the 
advisor and the actual interest rates applicable to each account was made clear to Mr F on 
his statements. The investigator said that the compensation offered by Halifax was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr F didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Halifax advised Mr F that his current full balance of £6730.17 would 
be placed on the 0% interest rate promotion. This was set out in the letter dated 14 
September 2022.
Halifax has said that this was an error, and that only the £2500 money transfer which was 
the subject of Mr Fs initial complaint attracted the rate of 0%.
Mr H has said that he only accepted the final response dated 14 September 2022 on the 
basis that his total balance was placed on 0%. He says that Halifax proposed this offer and 
he accepted it, and that it was confirmed in writing.
Ive reviewed the information provided by Halifax. This shows that Mr H had 4 promotional 
plans running. One of the plans is the money transfer of £2500 at 0% interest. The other 
three plans are balance transfers, all of which were on a promotional rate of 3.9% when they 
started.
Ive also reviewed the statements for each promotional plan. The statements show that 
interest rate applicable. I think Mr F would have been aware that all of his plans  except the 
money transfer of £2500  were subject to an interest rate of 3.9%.
I understand that Mr F feels that Halifax should honour what they set out in the letter dated 
14 September 2022. However, Halifax has explained that this was an error, and on a review 
of the information I cant see any reason why the other accounts shouldve been changed to 
0% at that time. Mr F has said that the offer to change all the other accounts to 0% was in 
recognition of the error in relation to the £2500 transfer, but I havent seen any evidence 
which supports that. Halifax paid compensation of £50 to Mr F in recognition of the initial 
error with the £2500 transfer and I think that was fair and reasonable. 
Halifax has apologised for its error. I havent seen any information which causes me to think 
that this was anything but human error. I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr F 
but Im satisfied that the fairest way to remedy this error is by way of a compensatory 
payment for the upset caused, and not a substitution of a 0% rate in place of the 3.9% 
interest rates applicable to each promotional plan.
Ive thought about what level of compensation is fair and reasonable to reflect the upset 
caused to Mr F. Halifax has paid compensation of £110 already and has offered a further 
£40. Taking everything into consideration, I think compensation of £150 is fair and 
reasonable and in line with what this service would award.
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman