DRN-3196615
The complaint
Mr D and Ms S are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic. A few days later Mr D and Ms S travelled with their family to a country Ill refer to 
as A. Unfortunately, due to the impact of Covid-19, Mr D and Ms S couldnt return to the UK 
as planned and were stuck abroad for several months. On their return they claimed on their 
travel insurance policy for the delayed departure benefit and the cost of Covid-19 tests which 
were needed to enter the UK at that time. 
URV declined the claim saying that there was no cover under the policy for the 
circumstances in which Mr D and Ms S found themselves. Mr D and Ms S complained, but 
URV maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mr D and Ms S referred their 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt 
think that the claim fell within the relevant policy terms. So, he didnt think it was 
unreasonable for URV to decline the claim. 
Mr D and Ms S didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, 
they disagreed that it was reasonable for them to be required to be at their international 
departure point in order to claim and asked the investigator to highlight where in the policy 
this requirement was set out. And they said that they needed emergency travel documents 
as defined by the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. 
The policy terms and conditions
The policy terms set out the circumstances in which travel delay is covered. It says there is 
cover if: 
Your departure from your international departure point was delayed by more than 12 
hours after your scheduled departure time because of a disruption to your transport 
providers service. We will pay you £20 for each full 12 hour period that you are 
delayed up to a maximum of £160. 
International departure point is defined as: 
Any airport, international rail terminal or port from which you leave a country having 
passed through passport control. 
The policy also sets out the circumstances in which it covers emergency travel documents. It 
says there will be cover if: 
Despite having taken precautions your travel documents were lost, stolen or 
damaged during your trip. 
We will pay you up to £250 for the cost of additional travel and accommodation that 
you paid in order to collect your emergency travel documents;
We will pay you up to £250 towards the cost of emergency travel documents. 
Emergency travel documents is defined as:
Any emergency documents that you need in order to return home or continue your 
trip. 
Travel documents is defined as: 
Passports and Visas. 
Has URV fairly declined the claim for delayed departure?
I think URV has fairly declined the claim because: 
Mr D and Ms Ss flight was cancelled  not delayed.  
In order to claim Mr D and Ms S would have needed to travel to their international 
departure point. The definition of international departure point includes the 
requirement to have passed through passport control. Ive taken into account Mr Ds 
comments about the unusual circumstances surrounding Covid-19. But this section 
of cover isnt designed to cover the cancellation of flights  its designed to cover a 
delay at the airport once the policyholder has passed through passport control.
Mr D has commented on the wider approach of The Financial Ombudsman Service 
to delays and cancellation on our website. However, in reaching a decision Ive taken 
into account the specific circumstances of this case and the relevant policy terms and 
conditions. Having done so, I dont think there are grounds for me to conclude that it 
would be fair and reasonable for URV to depart from the policy terms. The policy sets 
out the circumstances in which a claim will be accepted - Mr D and Ms Ss claim 
simply isnt covered. 
Has URV fairly declined the claim for the cost of emergency travel documents?
I think URV has fairly declined the claim because: 
The policy covers travel documents that are lost, stolen or damaged during the trip. 
Mr D and Ms S needed to have a Covid-19 test in order to return to the UK. This isnt 
a document that was lost, stolen or damaged during the trip  it was a new 
document they needed to get in order to get home. So, the claim doesnt meet the 
first requirement of the policy terms.
Mr D says that the policy covers emergency travel documents and the Covid-19 test was an emergency document that was needed in order to return home. He argues 
that it therefore meets the policy definition of emergency travel documents. But that 
term also needs to be read in conjunction with the definition of travel documents 
which is passports and visas. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for URV to 
conclude that the term covered emergency passports and visas which were needed 
to return home. 
Theres no cover for other emergency travel documents, such as the Covid-19 test 
Mr D and Ms S required. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for URV to decline the 
claim. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman