DRN-4071630
The complaint
Mr H complains about the role played by his broker, Abbey Insurance Brokers Ltd 
(AbbeyAutoline), in a claim he made under his motor insurance policy following an accident.
This decision covers Mr Hs complaint to this service in January 2023 about AbbeyAutolines 
involvement in his claim. It doesnt consider the role of the insurer (A) under the policy and 
their handling of the claim (the subject of a separate complaint to this service). Nor does this 
decision consider the circumstances, details, or outcome of the claim (or the accident that 
led to the claim).
Your text here
What happened
Mr H had a motor insurance policy taken out through AbbeyAutoline, with a separate insurer 
(A). In May 2021 Mr H was involved in an accident with a third party and made a claim. The 
claim was eventually settled in October 2022, when liability for the accident (and costs 
relating to the accident) was accepted by A.
Mr H was unhappy at the time taken to assess and settle the claim, so asked AbbeyAutoline 
to help in his contact with A. AbbeyAutoline forwarded communications from Mr H to A and 
similarly forwarded responses back from A to Mr H.
However, Mr H wasnt happy with aspects of how the claim was being handled so 
complained to AbbeyAutoline. They issued a final response in September 2022, though this 
said theyd raised Mr Hs concerns with A because, as Mr Hs broker, theyd had no direct 
involvement in the handling of the claim. They also noted that, as a broker, they had no 
control over the level of premiums under a policy as they were determined by the insurer.
Unhappy at AbbeyAutolines response and their involvement with the claim with A, Mr H 
complained to this service. He didnt feel theyd scrutinised the claim or responses from the 
insurer as they said they would and were just acting as a postbox.in sending his comments 
to the insurer and sending their responses back to him. As theyd refused to consider a 
complaint against them, he had to complain to this service. He thought if AbbeyAutoline had 
acted appropriately the claim would have been dealt with more quickly (and closed before 
the date of his last policy renewal). As they hadnt been, his premium was higher than it 
would otherwise have been. Hed also spent a lot of time trying to get updates on his claim 
and to progress it  which caused him distress and inconvenience. 
Mr H wanted compensation for what had happened and for AbbeyAutoline to establish when 
the initial settlement under the claim was agreed (with the third partys solicitor) and why the 
insurer didnt clarify whether it was in full and final settlement of the claim. Not doing this 
meant he was exposed to a potential future personal injury claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding there wasnt any action for 
AbbeyAutoline to take. She noted Mr H contacted AbbeyAutoline as he wasnt getting 
responses from A after the accident, as he thought AbbeyAutoline could help expedite the 
claim. The investigator concluded AbbeyAutoline had passed on all the correspondence to 
the insurer without delay (as she would expect a broker to do) and so hadnt caused any 
delay in the claim process. She thought AbbeyAutoline had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. While he accepted brokers operated within certain general parameters, 
AbbeyAutoline had said they would scrutinise the insurers handling of the claim and would 
push the claim forward for him. And the claim would be reviewed by their Chief Executive 
office. But this didnt happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AbbeyAutoline have acted fairly towards Mr H.
The key issue in Mr Hs complaint is he feels AbbeyAutoline didnt scrutinise the claim or 
responses from the insurer as they said they would and were just acting as a postbox. He 
thinks if AbbeyAutoline had acted appropriately the claim would have been dealt with more 
quickly (and closed before the date of his last policy renewal). As they hadnt, his premium 
was higher than it would otherwise have been. 
In looking at the issue, Ive considered what wed expect of a broker in these circumstances. 
I think its reasonable to expect them to act as an intermediary to help the claims process. 
Looking at the exchanges between Mr H, AbbeyAutoline and A, thats what theyve done in 
passing issues raised by Mr H to A and from A to Mr H. They also make suggestions to Mr H 
at different times. 
However, the responsibility for handling the claim, determining the outcome and any 
consequent settlement (be it for Mr H and/or any third party) lies with A as the insurer of the 
policy. It doesnt lie with the broker, whose principal role is (as appropriate) to help a 
consumer choose from a range of insurance policy options to get them the best and most 
appropriate policy given the consumers needs and circumstances. This is reflected in the 
Terms of Business document produced by AbbeyAutoline which includes the following 
overall description of their role:
We are an insurance intermediary who act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with your best interest. We act on your behalf at all times except for the 
collection and refund of premiums when we act as the agent of the Insurer. Our 
services include assessing your demands and needs and offering advice on the 
appropriate insurance, arranging and managing cover with the insurers, and making 
mid-term adjustments to your insurance. Where appropriate we may offer you 
carefully selected products and services connected with your insurance, these are 
sold separately and are non compulsory.
This doesnt explicitly mention support in claims handling, though it would be reasonable for 
the broker to assist a policyholder in their dealings with an insurer in respect of a claim. But 
this wouldnt constitute claims management. And while Mr H may have expected 
AbbeyAutoline to do more than they did, I dont think its reasonable to hold them 
responsible for the time taken for the claim to be settled, the outcome of the claim, or the 
impact on Mr Hs premium the claim may have had (either as an unsettled or settled claim).
Your text here
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman