DRN-1613668
 
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent 
to her.
background
Mrs I was given 5 loans by Sunny between July 2015 and October 2016. A summary of this 
lending is given in this table:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Instalments Highest monthly 
repayment
1 20/07/2015 31/08/2016 14 133.28
2 31/08/2015 31/10/2016 14 253.66
3 19/08/2016 05/08/2019 14 346.15
4 16/09/2016 05/08/2019 14 292.77
5 31/10/2016 outstanding 14 298.50
 
Mrs Is complaint has been looked at by one of our adjudicators. They didnt think Sunny 
should have agreed to lend from loan 1 onwards. He felt Sunny should have carried out 
further checks and if it did it would have seen Mrs I was having problems managing her 
finances. 
Sunny disagreed and said loan 1 was affordable for Mrs I based on what she told it. It also 
explained it carried out checks on Mrs I each time she applied for a loan. These checks 
included affordability checks and reviewing information from credit reports.
As the matter was unable to be resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
issue a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mrs I could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs I could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Having carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context, Im upholding Mrs Is complaint. Ill explain why. 
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Mrs I. It asked her for details of her income, and her 
normal expenditure. And it says it checked her credit file before agreeing the loans.
All of Mrs Is loans in this chain were repayable over a 14-month period. So, the amounts 
that Mrs I needed to repay each time were smaller than if shed taken a normal payday loan. 
But of course, she was committing to making those repayments over a significant period. 
I dont think the checks Sunny say it carried out were enough for any of the loans including 
loan 1. Mrs I was committing to repay her loans over a significant period. I think Sunny should have taken great care to ensure that her finances were stable enough to support 
such a lengthy commitment. So, I dont think it was reasonable for Sunny to base its 
affordability checks only on what Mrs I was telling it about her finances. 
Instead before lending to Mrs I loan 1, Sunny ought to taken steps to establish what other 
short term lending commitments she held at that time. Had it done a proportionate check for 
loan 1, it would have shown Mrs I was struggling to manage her money and was borrowing 
to pay borrowing. At the time Mrs I asked to borrow loan 1 she also had 6 outstanding short 
term loans provided from other lenders. 
If Sunny had carried out proportionate checks for loan 1 as I have described, it would have 
seen that the monthly repayments were not sustainable and as a responsible lender it 
should have declined the loan application and any other loan requests after this date. So I 
uphold Mrs Is complaint about loan 1-5 and Sunny should now put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mrs I paid on loans 1 to 5;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loans 1 to 5 from Mrs Is credit file.
 
It is my understanding that Mrs I still owes Sunny some of the principal balance she 
borrowed on her final loan (loan 5). Sunny may deduct this from the compensation that is 
due to her. But, to be clear, that outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove any 
interest and charges, taking account of any repayments Mrs I has made on that loan as 
though they were applied against the principal sum borrowed.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Is complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman