DRN-2184893
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds decision to avoid his 
car insurance policy and reject his theft claim. Advantage said Mr C carelessly 
misrepresented the facts when he bought his policy. 
All reference to the insurer Advantage in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr C bought a car insurance policy through a broker which subsequently lapsed. In July 
2018 Mr C bought a new policy online through a comparison website with the same broker 
who acted for the insurer, Advantage. Mr C didnt disclose a non fault incident from 
September 2017. 
In July 2019 Advantage renewed Mr Cs policy. It knew about a speeding conviction that was 
added to Mr Cs driving licence in November 2018 as it carried out a check using his licence 
number. So this was taken into account in the premium it set in July 2019. But the 
September 2017 incident wasnt recorded  as Advantage relied on the information Mr C 
had given the year before. 
In August 2019 Mr Cs car was stolen. He made a claim to Advantage and this is when 
Advantage discovered the incident from September 2017. It said if it had known about both 
the incident and the speeding conviction, it wouldnt have offered Mr C a policy at renewal in 
July 2019. So it avoided Mr Cs policy from 5 July 2019. It refunded the premium he paid and 
didnt meet his theft claim as it said the policy didnt exist. Mr C pointed out that my 
provisional decision said the avoidance was backdated to July 2018, which was an error on 
my part. 
Mr C was very unhappy about Advantages decision. But it said its decision was correct. So 
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint. 
Mr C said he didnt disclose the September 2017 incident in error in July 2018. At renewal, 
he thought Advantage hadnt included it because it wasnt worthy of noting. He thought it 
was aware of the incident as hed told Advantages agent about it in September 2017. He 
didnt remember that he hadnt disclosed it the year before  in July 2018.
Our investigator recommended Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He thought Advantage 
had asked a clear question about Mr Cs claims history which he didnt take reasonable care 
to answer in July 2018. But he thought Advantage should have been reasonably aware of 
the incident from September 2017 as Mr C reported it then. Advantage told us it changed 
systems in the middle of 2018. This meant previous information it held about a customers 
history hadnt moved over to the new system. 
So for this reason, the investigator thought Mr C hadnt breached his duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. He therefore recommended Advantage reinstate Mr 
Cs policy, deal with his claim and remove any record of the avoidance. He also 
recommended Advantage pay Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. He thought Advantage should deduct the premium from any settlement it pays 
under the theft claim and provide Mr C with a letter confirming it avoided his policy in error. 
Mr C accepted the investigators view. 
Advantage didnt agree. It said if Mr C had automatically renewed his policy with it, it would 
agree that it should have included the incident in his renewal documents. But Mr C bought 
the policy as a new contract online through a comparison website. He was asked a clear 
question which he answered incorrectly. So it said a qualifying misrepresentation took place 
and Advantage has correctly avoided his policy. 
I issued a provisional decision on 15 June 2020. I thought Advantage had acted correctly 
and in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). So I didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. 
Mr C didnt agree. Ive addressed his concerns below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a complaint arises from non-disclosure of information important to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy was taken out. We check that the 
information given would affect whether a policy was offered or its terms. And we check 
whether the policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate information. If not, 
we consider whether they did so deliberately, recklessly or carelessly. Advantage said that 
Mr C carelessly misrepresented the facts in order to buy his policy. I have taken account of 
CIDRA.
Mr C didnt renew his policy with Advantage following the incident in September 2017. Had 
Advantage renewed Mr Cs policy, I think it should have included the claims information it 
had recorded under the policy from the previous year. But that isnt the case here. Instead 
Mr C bought a new policy through an online comparison website. I appreciate that Mr C says 
he can access his older policies online. But I dont think this makes a difference. The duty to 
take reasonable care not to misrepresent the information was on Mr C as this was a new 
contract. I therefore dont think its relevant in this case that Advantage didnt hold historical 
information about Mr Cs claims history. 
Advantage has provided a screenshot of the key question from the online website. Mr C was 
asked to disclose any motor accidents or claims in the last 5 years. A pop up box advised 
the following:
Give us details of any incidents, accidents or claims involving a vehicle that youve 
had in the last five years. Please include all incidents, including where you weren't at 
fault, where you were driving a different vehicle and accidents that havent yet been 
settled. 
I think the question was clear on the online website. But Mr C didnt disclose the incident 
from ten months before. So I think Mr C didnt take reasonable care not to misrepresent the 
facts here. And I think Mr C was reasonably aware of the requirement to notify his insurer of 
the incident, as he did so at the time. 
Mr Cs policy documents included a Statement of Insurance. On 3 July 2018 Advantage told 
Mr C to check the information under the Statement and if anything wasnt correct to let it 
know. It wrote:Under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, you 
have a duty to take reasonable care to answer all questions fully and accurately. If 
you volunteer information over and above that requested you must do so honestly 
and carefully. If you don't answer all questions fully and accurately, it could invalidate 
your insurance cover and result in all or part of a claim not being paid.
So I think Mr C was given a further opportunity to check the information he provided was 
correct when he received his policy documents. And he was made aware of the potential 
consequences if he didnt answer the questions fully and accurately. 
At renewal in July 2019, Advantage included a speeding conviction which was recorded 
under Mr Cs driving licence from November 2018. But as Mr C hadnt disclosed the incident 
from September 2017 when he bought the policy in July 2018, Advantages renewal 
documents didnt include it. 
Advantage provided a Statement of Insurance as it did the year before. So I think Mr C was 
given a further opportunity to correct the information. Mr C says he thought Advantage 
mustnt have thought the incident worthy of noting as he hadnt remembered failing to 
disclose it the year before. But as Ive said, I think Mr C was asked a clear question which he 
didnt take reasonable care to answer correctly.
CIDRA says that an insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what 
CIDRA describes - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation, 
the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the 
consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. If an insurer decides the 
misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, it can avoid the policy and keep the premium 
even if it could have offered a policy on different terms. If the insurer deems the 
misrepresentation as careless and it can show it wouldnt have offered a policy, it can avoid 
the policy but should refund the premium (if a claim hasnt already been made).
Advantage refunded the premium Mr C paid in full. It has provided underwriting evidence to 
show that it would have offered insurance to Mr C if hed told it about the incident. But when 
he gained the speeding conviction, it wouldnt have offered Mr C insurance at renewal as 
both the incident and the conviction meant the risk exceeded their appetite to provide cover. 
I know Mr C doesnt accept that Advantage wouldnt have offered him a policy based on his 
history. He believes Advantage may have wrongly rated his history based on a claim being 
made, when no claim was made against his policy. He feels I havent focused on this issue 
enough in my provisional decision.
An insurers underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive and so it doesnt share it with 
customers or the open market. We dont interfere with a business commercial decisions. We 
can however ask an insurer to provide us with its underwriting information so we can check 
its treated its customer fairly. 
Mr C doesnt believe his history would deem him as uninsurable. Advantage has provided us 
with evidence to show it wouldnt have insured Mr C in July 2019 based on his history. This 
doesnt mean that other insurers on the open market wouldnt provide cover to Mr C. 
Im satisfied from the information Advantage has provided that it correctly applied its 
underwriting criteria and it wouldnt have offered insurance to Mr C at renewal in July 2019. 
Its shown us that its decision was on the basis that the incident in September 2017 wasnt 
Mr Cs fault and there were no costs payable. So I think it treated Mr C fairly and as it would 
any other customer in his circumstances. This means I think Advantages decision to avoid his policy from the renewal date of 5 July 2019 was reached reasonably and in line with 
CIDRA. 
Mr C has asked; if he hadnt disclosed the incident from September 2017 when he reported 
the theft, would Advantage have known. Thats not for me to answer. But it was for Mr C to 
provide accurate information to the insurer when applying for insurance. 
I know Mr C believes Advantage should have done more to check the information hed 
provided was accurate at the time. Some insurers carry out checks on some policies at the 
point of sale. But its not practical to expect all insurers to check all policies. The fact remains 
that the onus was on Mr C to answer the questions correctly. 
Mr C believes there have been faults by both parties. But I dont agree. I appreciate that Mr 
C says at the time he completed the application he had suffered a family bereavement. 
However, I think there were opportunities after he bought the policy in July 2018 and July 
2019 for Mr C to contact Advantage once hed checked his policy documents for accuracy.
Mr C has asked if this means he will need to declare the avoidance to future insurers if 
asked. The answer is yes. I understand how disappointed Mr C will be with my decision. But 
I think Advantage has correctly recorded the avoidance. And as Mr Cs policy was cancelled 
as if it didnt exist, this means his theft claim correctly isnt covered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman