DRN-3133246
The complaint
Mrs O complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided her with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mrs O was given a loan by TFS as follows: 
Date taken Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*Total 
amount 
payable
8.10.2015 36 £3,000 £145.21 £5,227.56
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Os complaint. She didnt think that TFS 
shouldve provided the loan to Mrs O and she set out the steps that TFS needed to 
take to put things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that:
we had agreed that proportionate checks were done before lending
Mrs O earned more than the figure it used in its affordability assessment (although it 
didnt rely on this when assessing affordability)
her accommodation costs were minimal  she paid just £220 rent and no council tax
its checks showed that Mrs O had disposable income in excess of £1,000 each 
month
TFS had missed some of her expenditure but this didnt make any overall difference 
to affordability
Mrs O had given a plausible explanation about adverse entries shown on her credit 
file and two defaulted mortgage accounts would be cleared shortly following sale of 
the property
the loan purpose was repayment of other debt
the loan was affordable for her.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Ive looked at the complaint afresh 
and independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain my 
reasons.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mrs Os complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
TFS asked Mrs O about her income and expenses and carried out credit checks - and it sent 
this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that TFS relied on when it agreed 
to provide this loan to Mrs O. 
The income and expenditure assessments done by TFS suggested that the loan potentially 
looked affordable for Mrs O. When looking at what she could afford, it worked out that Mrs O 
should comfortably be able to make the repayments on her TFS loan out of her disposable 
income which TFS calculated would be an amount of at least £1,000. So TFS felt this loan 
was affordable for Mrs O. But like our investigator, I dont think TFS thought carefully enough 
about what the information it had gathered showed about Mrs Os overall financial situation 
and the likelihood of her being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. And I dont think 
TFS made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mrs O based on the information it had 
gathered.
I say this because, despite recording information that appeared to show that Mrs O had 
enough spare cash each month easily to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think TFS 
shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this information. Thats because what Mrs O had declared was significantly at odds with what TFS saw on its credit checks showing Mrs Os 
credit history. 
Our investigator set out in some detail the evidence of multiple defaulted accounts that TFS 
could see on the credit checks it obtained  this included two mortgages, and at least seven 
defaults dated within the last 12 months. Some problematic debt had been settled, but there 
was extensive evidence apparent that Mrs O had largely struggled to maintain her payments 
to her creditors in the past. I dont think anything Mrs O said to TFS was enough to properly 
explain her evident payment problems  especially bearing in mind her lower than average 
accommodation costs and her higher than average income and earning capacity. And she 
had two active county court judgements, including one recorded ten months earlier and the 
other just two months before TFS agreed to lend to her. This suggested that her money 
problems were ongoing. 
Our investigator felt that TFS wasnt able to say in these circumstances that Mrs O was in a 
position where it could safely say it looked likely shed be able to sustainably afford the 
repayments on this loan for the next five years.
I think TFS should have realised that what it saw on its credit checks painted a very different 
picture of her financial situation to the one Mrs O had described. And like our investigator, 
I think this credit history strongly suggested Mrs O was still having serious money problems. 
To my mind, it shouldve been apparent to TFS that Mrs O probably didnt have the amount 
of disposable income that its calculations suggested, or indeed any spare cash  all the 
signs were that her finances were, in reality, under significant stress and her debt was 
already unmanageable. And I think that was borne out by what TFS was able to see on the 
bank statements it obtained from Mrs O which showed that she was paying arranged and 
unarranged overdraft fees, she had a returned direct debit payment just a week or so 
before applying for this loan and she was paying at least one other high cost credit 
provider that wasnt included in her repayment plans. 
I agree with our investigator that TFS shouldve realised that Mrs O was not in a position to 
sustainably repay another high-cost loan with repayments of around £145 each month, when 
she seemed to be already over-stretched financially and unable to pay her existing 
outstanding financial commitments. 
To my mind, there was nothing to indicate that her financial situation would be significantly 
improved by taking out this loan with TFS. I've taken into account that the stated main 
purpose of the loan was to consolidate some of Mrs Os debt  but this doesnt affect my 
view overall that TFS didnt make a fair lending decision.
I dont think using this loan to repay the existing debt she mentioned to TFS was enough to 
give TFS sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved Mrs Os overall position 
sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in her financial situation, 
given her outstanding indebtedness overall. And based on all the information TFS had 
gathered, I dont think it was reasonably able to say that the loan was likely to be sustainable 
affordable for Mrs O. 
So I dont think I can reasonably say that it made a fair lending decision based on the 
information in front of it. 
As Mrs O has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result 
of what TFS did wrong. So, I think TFS needs to put things right.Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that TFS should pay any additional redress. Mrs O hasnt 
commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think TFS acted unfairly 
towards Mrs O in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs O to repay the principal amount that she 
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has been charged extra for a 
loan that should not have been provided to her. In line with this Services approach, Mrs O 
shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she borrowed. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs O received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mrs O made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mrs O having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs O bearing in mind the need to treat her 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions 
remove any adverse information placed on Mrs Os credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Os complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman