DRN-3818744
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) unfairly declined his application for a 
buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 26 October 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr S being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr S had a joint BTL mortgage with a lender I will call T, which is part of the same group of 
companies as BoS, but is a separate business in its own right. T no longer offered new 
products to its customers, but had a re-mortgage process to allow customers to switch their 
mortgages to BoS, on condition this was on a like-for-like basis. That means that the 
borrowers, amount and mortgage term would have to remain the same for BoS to agree the 
application.
In November 2021 Mr S applied to BoS for a new mortgage to replace the BTL mortgage 
with T. However, he wanted this in his sole name, and to extend the mortgage term. BoS 
considered the application but wasnt able to agree to it.
Mr S complained to our service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that BoS had given fair 
consideration to the application before declining it. 
The investigator noted Mr S had made various complaints about T, but explained that, as 
BoS and T are two separate businesses, any complaint against T would need to be raised 
as a fresh complaint.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Hes made numerous points, most of which relate to his dissatisfaction with T. 
Mr S says that, because BoS and T are part of the same group, this is all one complaint, not 
two separate complaints.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I comment on the merits of this complaint, I will confirm the scope of this decision. I 
am considering under this complaint the decision made by BoS to decline Mr Ss BTL 
mortgage application. While BoS and T are part of the same banking group, they are 
separate businesses. I cant look at any concerns Mr S has about T in a complaint against 
BoS. 
That said, I am aware of the events that led up to the point that BoS became involved and 
how the application to BoS came about. But I would repeat the point made by the 
investigator; if Mr S has a complaint about anything T has (or hasnt) done, he will need to 
raise it with that business.
In relation to this particular complaint, Mr S was applying for a new BTL mortgage with BoS. 
This was not a like-for-like application. He wanted the mortgage in his sole name, and over 
an extended term. BoS was therefore entitled to assess the application against its lending 
criteria. BoS is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that BoS makes in respect of 
what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for BoSs 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
BoS has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, 
because it is commercially sensitive. But after considering this information, Im satisfied that 
BoS reached its lending decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, including 
(but not limited to) affordability, exposure to risk, and Mr Ss specific circumstances. The 
application was considered by underwriters twice, but the bank wasnt able to change its 
decision not to offer Mr S a mortgage. 
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that BoS gave fair consideration to this application and 
so legitimately exercised its commercial judgement when deciding the terms upon which it 
would lend to Mr S. This means that there is no basis upon which I can find that BoS has 
treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. The mortgage with T isnt subject to 
any early repayment charges, so Mr S is free to apply for a new BTL mortgage from another 
lender, should he wish to do so. Mr S might want to speak to a financial adviser about this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman