DRN-2178044
The complaint
Mr O complains that British Gas Services Limited has not fulfilled all elements of his 
homecare insurance policy with it.
What happened.
Mr O has a home care policy with British Gas that renewed in November 2019. In 2020 he 
says there were some repairs that needed carrying out under the policy. But, Mr O didnt 
appear to contact British Gas and make a claim for these repairs. However Mr O said he 
was aware British Gas werent able to attend his property, as due to the Covid-19 pandemic, 
British Gas said it was only attending emergency appointments at the time. And he felt this 
was unfair.
In April 2020 Mr O complained to British Gas. He said that as it was unable to fulfil all 
services he was paying for as part of his policy then he should be offered some money back 
on his premiums.
British Gas didnt uphold his complaint. It said that due to Government guidance following 
the pandemic, it had reduced its services to only emergency appointments. However it said 
once restrictions were lifted it would be able to attend appointments that werent classed as 
an emergency. And that included any problems Mr O was experiencing at his property, that 
the policy provides cover for. It said the current pandemic and government restrictions, was 
a situation that was out of its control and it wasnt offering a refund on premiums paid. 
However it said it could reduce the cover Mr O had or offer a payment holiday on premiums 
if this was something Mr O would find helpful. 
Mr O wasnt happy with this response. He said his policy included unlimited call outs which 
were usually attended within 48 hours. And, as British Gas couldnt provide that part of his 
cover, even if he did claim, he said it wasnt fair that he paid the same amount in premiums. 
He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that British Gas had acted fairly by making the decision not to attend the property in 
April 2020, but to come out at a later date, given that Mr O didnt have an emergency it was 
aware of, and because of the government restrictions at the time.  Our investigator also said 
that, now the restrictions were lifted, British Gas was able to provide the full cover of the 
policy, and attend to resolve any repairs Mr O said needed doing. So he didnt think British 
Gas should do anything differently.
Mr O didnt think this was fair. He said he accepted his problem wasnt an emergency, 
however he said as he was paying for unlimited call outs and British Gas werent able to 
provide this, he should be provided with a refund for that part of the cover. He asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has said that it had to limit services to only emergency call outs due to 
Government guidance following the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr O complained in April 2020 and 
at that time the Governments guidance was that we should avoid visiting other peoples 
households. So British Gas says it was only attending emergency call outs at that time.
Mr O said at this time he had some repairs that needed carrying out. However he accepts 
that these werent urgent and agreed they wouldnt be classed as an emergency. As British 
Gas needed to make sure it complied with government restrictions and looked after the 
safety of its customers and staff, I think it was reasonable that they didnt attend Mr Os 
property in this case in April 2020. Especially given that it wasnt aware of what these 
problems were, in order to fairly assess how to go about moving a claim forward. 
Mr O says that under his policy with British Gas, he is entitled to unlimited call outs, that 
were usually attended within 48 hours. And as this couldnt be fulfilled it meant that British 
Gas werent providing the service he was paying for, so he should be refunded.
I have considered this and I can see that the level of cover Mr O pays for does include 
unlimited call outs. However the policy states as follows: 
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
So although Mr O says British Gas have previously attended call outs within 48 hours, this 
isnt something that is guaranteed under the policy.  
In any event, this case British Gas has been able to provide the service Mr O paid for, just 
not straight away. As British Gas has confirmed it is now able to attend all call outs under the 
policy, it could then provide all services offered under Mr Os policy, just at a timescale later 
than Mr O expected. And because of this, it has acted in line with the policy. 
So although I understand Mr O was disappointed that British Gas werent able to provide the 
same level of service it usually would, it has acted in line with the terms of the policy. So I 
dont agree that British Gas has treated Me O unfairly. And as British Gas can now attend 
non-emergencies, I cant see that Mr O has lost out because of the restrictions. He has 
received the cover he paid for.
For these reasons I dont think British Gas has treated Mr O unfairly or unreasonably. And I 
dont think Mr O has lost out as a result of its actions. So I wont require British Gas to do 
anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont require British Gas Services Limited to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman