DRN-4470299
The complaint
Ms J has complained about the rejection of her claim under her Car Insurance policy with
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) for damage to her vehicle.
What happened
Ms J made a claim to LV after her vehicle was damaged in two separate incidents. Shes
said in the first incident the named driver under her policy, who Ill refer to as Mr D, parked
the vehicle and a third party reversed into it causing damage to the front bumper. Ms J said
that in the second incident several hours later, while Mr D was driving the vehicle, the 
airbags in the vehicle deployed and this caused him to veer off the road and hit some 
railings.
LV decided that the incidents should be treated separately. It also decided that Ms Js 
vehicle was a total loss as a result of the second incident. LV took several months to 
investigate the circumstances giving rise to the damage. It has said Ms J didnt actually 
make a claim for the first incident. But after its investigation, it turned down her claim for the 
damage caused in the second incident. It did this on the basis Ms J hadnt provided a 
satisfactory explanation of how the incident occurred. 
Ms J complained to LV about its decision and the way it had handled her claim
and the impact it had had on her. LV wouldnt alter its decision. Although, it did acknowledge 
it had taken a long time to investigate the matter. But it concluded the length and
detail of the investigation was warranted.
Ms J asked us to consider a complaint about LVs decision and its handling of the matter. 
When she did this she mentioned that she had spent many hours on hold for staff at LV and 
sent numerous emails. She also said shed had to purchase a replacement car. And that she 
had become very anxious as a result of the manner in which LV treated her and Mr D.
One of our investigators considered Ms Js complaint. She said it shouldnt be upheld on the
basis that LVs decision was reasonable. She also said LV was entitled to
reduce Ms Js no claim discount as a result of the second incident, as it had paid out a
considerable amount to recover Ms Js car and provide her with a hire car.
Ms J didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for her case to be considered by an
ombudsman. She pointed out that she had no intention of misleading LV. In essence, she
didnt think LVs decision to refuse her claim on the basis she had not provided a
satisfactory explanation for the second incident was fair.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 November 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold it and Ive explained why below.
Ms Js policy provides cover for damage to her vehicle. So, to establish she has a valid claim
under it in the first instance, she needs to show that her vehicle has been damaged. Once
she has done this, I consider it is for LV to show it is entitled to rely on one of the exclusions
in the policy or a breach of one of its conditions to refuse Ms Js claims.
In this case  as I see it - the fact Ms Js vehicle was damaged in two separate incidents is
not in dispute. And LV has not even said what policy exclusion it wants to rely on to refuse
Ms Js claim or what condition it considers she has failed to comply with. It has simply said
it isnt satisfied with her explanation of how the second incident happened. But this, is not, in
my opinion, sufficient reason for it to turn down Ms Js claim. This is because there is
damage to her vehicle, which is covered by her policy. And the fact LV isnt satisfied with
Ms Js explanation of how it happened is  in my opinion - immaterial.
I think what LV is really suggesting is that Ms J and Mr Ds version of events cant be true.
This is because it doesnt think the airbags on Ms Js vehicle could have deployed while
Mr D was driving it, causing him to veer off the road. And, while I appreciate this does seem
unlikely, I agree with Ms J that its not impossible that it happened because of a problem
caused by the impact in the first incident. However, as I see it, whether the airbags went off
before Mr D veered into the railings or just after he did so is irrelevant. I say this, because
either way the damage to Ms Js vehicle is covered by her policy.
If Mr D was mistaken and thought the airbags went off before he started veering off the road,
but they didnt, this could simply be poor recollection on his part of what happened. If he
knew they didnt and lied about it, he and Ms J would have provided misleading information
to LV. And there is a condition in Ms Js policy that says if Ms J or anyone representing her
gives misleading information when making a claim she will lose all benefits under the policy.
But, it is for LV to prove this has happened on the balance of probabilities. And I dont think it
has done so in respect of Ms Js claim. I say this because, while its possible the airbags
didnt deploy before Mr D veered off the road, it is clear from the research on the internet
and the fact LVs engineer only said it was unlikely, that its also possible they did, due to
some sort of malfunction in the sensors, which may have been due to damage caused in the
first incident. Or it could be that Mr D simply had a poor recollection of what happened.
Even if I were to accept Ms J and Mr D did actually mislead LV, Id only consider it fair for LV
to rely on the abovementioned condition if it was clear that Ms J could have benefited
financially from this. I say his because it is well established in law that an insurer can only
rely on a fraudulent or misleading statement to reject a claim if it can show the insured could
have gained financially from it, i.e. it would have influenced the insurers decision on whether
to accept the claim or led to it paying more than it should have done. In this case, even if
Ms J and Mr D did mislead LV, which I am not suggesting they did, I do not see how Ms J
could have gained any financial advantage from it. I say this because whether the airbags
went off before or after Mr D veered off the road, the damage to Ms Js car would be covered
by her policy.
In summary, it follows that I do not consider LVs decision to turn down Ms Js claims was
reasonable in the circumstances. And  as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint, I think it should settle them in accordance with the terms of Ms Js policy. There
were clearly two separate incidents which caused damage to Ms Js vehicle. I do think they
do therefore need to be treated as two separate claims. How LV settles them is a matter for
LV. But, bearing in mind it seems Ms Js vehicle would have been a total loss as a result of
the damage from the second incident, irrespective of the damage from the first incident, LV
will need to carefully consider whether it is appropriate to apply one or two excesses.
Turning now to the impact of LVs investigation of Ms Js claim. I do think it wasunnecessarily protracted and it does seem Ms J had to chase LV on several occasions and
spend time on hold to speak with claim handlers. So, I think she should be compensated for
the distress and inconvenience she experienced because of this. I also think the impact of
LVs inappropriate decision to refuse her claim would have caused Ms J significant distress
and inconvenience. I think she needs to be compensated for this as well. And I think £500 in
total as compensation for distress and inconvenience is appropriate.
I also sent a follow up email to LV saying I intended to make it add interest to the claim 
settlement amount due to Ms J at 8% per annum simple. 
I gave both parties until 21 November 2023 to provide further comments and evidence. 
Ms J has said she doesnt have any further comments or evidence to provide. 
LV has said it is disappointed with my provisional decision and has asked me to reconsider it 
in light of the following further comments:
Ms J first complained because she disagreed the two events claimed should be treated 
as two separate incidents. And maintained that the minor incident prior to Mr Ds 
accident must have led to the sudden deployment of the airbags, which caused him to 
crash into some railings on the way home in the early hours of the following morning. 
It cant see that it turned down Ms Js first claim for the damage caused while her car 
was parked, It understands the person who hit the car accepted they were at fault and 
were going to ask their insurer to settle the claim. 
If it was expected to settle the claim based on Ms Js testimony and Mr Ds version of 
events it would support Ms Js view it is all one claim, as the first caused the second 
event. But LV is confident it would not be able to recover its outlay from the third party (or 
presumably their insurer) due to the very minor nature of the first impact. And due to its 
engineering evidence suggesting this impact would not have been significant enough to 
have resulted in the airbags on Ms Js car suddenly deploying several hours later. 
It agrees to establish a valid claim Ms J has to show her vehicle has been damaged. 
However, it doesnt think showing damage alone is sufficient. It believes she needs to 
provide evidence the damage was sustained to the vehicle accidentally or due to fire or 
theft. And it feels there is not enough to support that the incident happened accidentally 
or to show it was not due to Mr D becoming incapacitated in some way.
The vehicle that was reversed into Ms Js vehicle was much smaller and the impact was 
at very low speed. 
The impact damage from the second incident would definitely have caused deployment 
of the airbags.
As Mr D left the scene of the accident it was unable to establish whether he was under 
the influence at the time. This may have been determined if he called the police due to 
the fact the vehicle was blocking a pathway. 
Its engineers feel very strongly the airbags would not have suddenly deployed as 
described by Mr D. Its referred to the fact I said this wasnt impossible, but thinks it highly 
improbable. 
It cant agree that it may be Mr D was mistaken about the sequence of events. As Ms Js 
original complaint was that she was adamant the airbags deployed causing the second 
incident. 
It feels strongly Mr D has misled it by deliberately insisting the deployment of the airbags 
caused the second event. The financial gain of this would be settlement of the claim. 
And, while it cant say why Mr D would mislead it, it considers it highly likely to be 
because if he had not there would have been reasons for it not to cover the claim. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all of LVs comments in response to my provisional decision, but it 
remains my view that Ms Js complaint should be upheld. Ive explained why below. 
I appreciate Ms Js first complaint was that the two events should not be treated separately. 
And I have checked LVs claims notes and I cant see it ever did refuse Ms Js claim for the 
damage caused in the first incident. If, because I consider LV should settle Ms Js claim for 
the second incident, LV wants to treat the damage as all part of one claim, thats its 
prerogative. I dont think I need to comment further on it in this decision. Instead, I have 
focused on whether LVs decision to refuse Ms Js claim for the damage caused in the 
second incident is reasonable. 
I agree that to establish a valid claim under her policy as a result of the second incident Ms 
Js needed to show that her car was damaged in an accident. But there is nothing to suggest 
Mr D didnt crash into the railings by accident, whatever the reason he did this was, i.e. I 
think it is clear he didnt do it deliberately. 
So, it remains my view that Ms J did establish a valid claim under her policy and it was for 
LV to show it was entitled to rely on a term in it to reject her claim. The fact that Mr Ds 
version of events leading to the second incident of damage to Ms Js vehicle seems highly 
improbable, although not impossible, does not  in my opinion - give LV a right to reject Ms 
Js claim. And even if it could show Mr Ds statement was untrue, I dont think LV would have 
any way of proving he misled it to gain a financial advantage. 
I note LV has suggested Mr J could have been under the influence at the time he crashed. 
And I presume from this it thinks this could be what led to him crashing, as opposed to it 
being due to the airbags going off. But, again, it has no way of proving this. So, I do not 
consider it can rely on the clause in Ms Js policy that would mean cover for the damage to 
her car wouldnt apply if Mr D was under the influence at the time he crashed it. I appreciate 
Mr D left the scene of the accident and didnt call the police. And hes explained why he did 
this. However, the reality is this doesnt alter the fact LV cant prove he did this because he 
was under the influence. 
In summary, it remains my view that Ms J has established a valid claim under her policy for 
the damage to her vehicle from the second incident when Mr D was driving. And that LV has 
not shown it is entitled to rely on a policy term to defeat it. So, I still consider it should settle it 
in accordance with the claim settlement terms in the policy. And that it should add interest to 
the settlement amount from one month after Ms J submitted her claim to the date of actual 
payment. The interest is to compensate Ms J for being without funds she should have had.
Whether Ms J wants to also claim for the damage caused in the first incident or LV wants to 
treat this as a separate incident is something I will leave Ms J and LV to discuss, as I dont 
think I need to make a finding on it in this decision. 
It also remains my view that LVs unreasonable decision to turn down Ms Js claim caused 
her unnecessary distress and inconvenience and it should pay her £500 in compensation for 
this. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision I have decided to uphold Ms Js complaint and make LV settle her claim for the damage to her vehicle in accordance with 
the claim settlement terms in her policy. And I also require it to pay interest on the amount 
due to Ms J at 8% per annum simple from one month after she made her claim to the date of 
payment1. 
I also require LV to pay Ms J £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Js complaint and order Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 LV must tell Ms J if it has made a deduction for income tax. And, if it has, how much its 
taken off. It must also provide a tax deduction certificate for Ms J if asked to do so. This will 
allow Ms J to reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.