DRN-3603648
The complaint
Mr A complains about the settlement that esure Insurance Limited offered him for the loss of 
his car when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A was involved in an incident and his car was deemed to beyond economical repair. 
esure offered Mr A £4,540 in settlement of his claim. It said this was the cars market value 
at the date of its loss. But Mr A was unhappy with this as he thought it didnt take into 
account the cars rarity, the improvements he had made, and its low mileage. Mr A said 
similar cars were advertised for sale at higher prices. He thought esure should pay him at 
least what he had bought the car for, £5,900.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esure 
had offered Mr A the highest valuation provided by the motor trade guides which it had found 
in keeping with our approach. He thought the cars maintenance wouldnt add value. And he 
thought esure had taken into account the cars low mileage. So he didnt think esure needed 
to increase its offer. 
Mr A replied providing examples of similar cars advertised at higher prices. He thought esure 
should offer him £7,000. He didnt think the guides we use were reliable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. And I can 
understand that he feels frustrated that esure hasnt offered him the settlement he expects. 
Mr As policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. This is defined in 
the policy booklet:
"market value - The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell 
your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment 
of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition 
and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor 
trade guides including: Glass's, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when 
you purchased the car."
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Mr A doesnt agree with our approach. But its one thats adopted to be fair to 
all parties. Mr A also provided links to examples of similar cars to his advertised for higher 
prices. But we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially 
asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as 
they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices. 
Our Investigator thought esures settlement offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked 
how he came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked in the motor trade guides we use 
for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage, condition and options as Mr As car at the 
date of its loss. The valuations he found were in keeping with those found by esure. esure 
had offered Mr A the highest valuation provided by the guides. 
Mr A said hed added things such as new wheels and this should increase the valuation. But 
we regard this as maintenance and dont consider that this would increase the cars market 
value. Our Investigator thought the new radio may add value. But I agree that by offering the 
top valuation provided by the guides, esure has sufficiently taken that into account. 
Mr A was unhappy that esure hadnt offered him the cars insured value as stated on the 
policy documents. But this isnt what his policy provides. The policy provides for the cars 
market value at the date of its loss, not an agreed value. 
So Im satisfied that esures settlement of Mr As claim was fair and reasonable as it was 
made correctly in keeping with our approach. I dont require it to increase its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman