DRN-3718726
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) hasnt written off a 
loan he took out during a scam. 
What happened
Mr R says that on 17 March 2022 he received a call from someone who said they were from 
Halifaxs fraud department. Although he didnt know this at the time, the caller was a 
fraudster. He was asked to search the number he had been called from and found that it was 
a Halifax number. The caller told Mr R that they could see that his card was being used in 
branch to withdraw cash and that the person doing this had then joined the back of the 
queue and was trying to take out a loan in his name. In order to catch the criminal involved, 
Mr R was told he needed to apply for a loan himself.  
Mr R went through the loan application with the fraudster and on his advice recorded that the 
loan was for home improvements. He was then told to transfer the majority of the funds 
(£24,468.39) to an account that was computer generated and that they would be returned to 
him within two hours. 
Mr R tried to make a payment of £24,468.39 and chose the HMRC payment reason. The 
payment was flagged by Halifaxs security systems and he was asked to call Halifax. Mr R 
had three calls with Halifaxs fraud department about the payment. In each call Mr R was 
told to lie about the payment purpose and say that the payment was for a loft conversion. I 
have set out below what was discussed in each call.
Call 1  14:04 on 17/03/22  
Mr R explained that hed tried to make a payment and been asked to call. The agent 
discussed the amount of the payment and the reason for it. Mr R explained that he was 
paying the final amount for a loft conversion that he was happy with. The agent raised 
concerns because the payee name and account details didnt match and asked Mr R for the 
name of the business that completed the work, but Mr R didnt have it.
The advisor said that he didnt think there was a problem in terms of scams as the work had 
been completed but he wasnt comfortable to release the payment until Mr R had double-
checked he had the correct details given the amount involved. 
Call 2  14:22 on 17/03/22
The advisor asked questions about the amount, the payee and the reason for the payment. 
Mr R was then advised that Halifax felt his payment carried a higher than normal risk that he 
was the victim of fraud or a scam and that once the payment left his account Halifax would 
be unlikely to recover it. 
The advisor went on to say, 
We want to make sure with you today that no-one contacted you and youre not following 
anyones instructions because fraudsters and scammers have been contacting our 
customers and maybe claiming to be [financial advisors and investments]. Also they can 
claim to be the fraud team or they will tell you there is a fraud happening inside the bank and 
they have a private investigation team that is trying to track this fraud down and they will ask 
you to make some payments with promises that youll get the money back.
Mr R confirmed he hadnt had any calls and that he wanted to make the payment because 
the work had been done. But the advisor asked Mr R further questions in relation to whether 
the individual he was paying had a company, how he knew the builder and whether he had 
an invoice. The advisor clearly had concerns about the fact major works had been 
completed but Mr R didnt have an invoice. Mr R then said he had a bill and was asked for 
the name on it. He gave the name of an individual and was told that it was the name of a 
professional footballer not a builder. The advisor expressed concern about the payment and 
went on to explain Halifaxs duty to protect Mr R. He noted that Mr R stated the work had 
been completed but that some customers will say that when its not the case. The advisor 
discussed the loan Mr R had taken out and established that no-one talked to Mr R about 
taking out a loan or suggested that he do so. He also asked Mr R to confirm he hadnt paid a 
deposit. Ultimately, the advisor said hed made notes and Mr R should call back with further 
information. 
Call 3  14:47 on 17/03/22
During this call the advisor went over many of the issues discussed in the previous call. Mr R 
explained that he was paying the builders personal account and confirmed that he hadnt 
established why the details didnt match or the name of the company that completed the 
work. Mr R explained that the builder told him hed had the same problem before. The 
advisor satisfied herself that Mr R was aware of the loan. 
The advisor discussed with Mr R the prevalence of scams and said she wasnt providing 
advice for the payment Mr R was making but for future payments and said it was advice 
given in every call at the time. She went on to say, 
There is one [scam] in particular that were seeing quite a lot at the moment so we call it the 
safe account scam. So customers have been getting calls saying theyre from the bank or 
the fraud team and theyre being told that someones tried to either access their account or 
move money from their account and that its no longer safe, erm, so theyre being told they 
need to move their money to a safe account and of course these calls arent genuine and so 
if the customer moves their money then its gone and thats when we have to try and get it 
back for them. So its just to let you know that the bank would never phone you and ask you 
to move any money or tell you that your accounts unsafe at all. So if you do receive 
anything similar then please just ignore it, its not us.
Before making the payment for Mr R the advisor checked that Mr R hadnt received any 
unusual contact recently, that no-one had asked him to move his money or said his account 
was unsafe, whether hed been asked to download software or to lie to the bank. Mr R said 
none of these scenarios had occurred. 
Mr R says he spoke to the scammer between calls and was told the police wouldnt get 
involved if the payment wasnt made. When Mr R was later told to delete the Halifax app, he 
became concerned and called Halifax and the scam was uncovered. 
Mr R says that he was tricked into taking out the loan and will struggle to make repayments 
so Halifax should write it off. 
Halifax has referred to the three calls with Mr R before the payment was made and says it 
did everything it could to prevent the scam. It contacted the bank that received the funds Mr 
R sent within two hours of the scam being reported but was only able to recover £3.46 which 
has been returned to Mr R.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. She 
said this because she felt Mr R didnt do enough to satisfy himself he was contacted by his 
genuine bank. But as Halifax didnt provide Mr R with an effective warning it should share 
responsibility for his loss. The investigator also said that Halifax didnt go far enough when it 
spoke to Mr R before he made the payment. As a result, she recommended that Halifax restructure the loan, remove 50% of the capital and take into account any payments Mr R 
has already made.
Halifax responded and said that whilst it didnt agree with all the points raised it was 
prepared to accept the investigators recommendations in an effort to resolve the complaint. 
But Halifax said it was unable to reconstruct the loan and so the loan repayments would 
need to stay the same. 
Mr R accepted that he should take some liability. But he referred to the huge impact of the 
scam on his mental health and finances as he is in arrears on the loan taken out in the 
scam. Mr R asked for a final decision, so his complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Mr R has raised some points about the service he has received after Halifax made its 
decision not to reimburse him and in respect of loan repayments. These points didnt form 
part of Mr Rs initial complaint to this service, so I wont consider them in this decision. Mr R 
may choose to raise a separate complaint about these issues. 
The starting point for my considerations is that, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms of his account, Mr R is liable for transactions hes carried out himself. 
But Halifax are signatories to the CRM Code and also have a longstanding obligation to be 
on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions which might indicate their 
customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mr R was tricked into taking out a loan and making the 
payment. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mr R to receive a refund under the CRM 
Code. The Code places a level of care on Mr R too. 
Halifax is a signatory of the CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for Halifax to establish that Mr R failed to meet his 
requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
- The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
There are other exceptions that do not apply to this case. 
Did Mr R have a reasonable basis for belief when he made the payment?
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, I think the concerns Halifax has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transaction Mr R made, are enough to support its position 
that he failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payment he 
made. I dont think Mr R had a reasonable basis for believing the person he transacted with 
was legitimate. Ill explain why.I understand the call Mr R received was made from a spoofed telephone number and I dont 
underestimate the impact this must have had in reassuring him that this was a genuine call 
from Halifax. But I still need to consider whether, after this initial reassurance, Mr R ought 
reasonably to have had doubts and conducted some checks before proceeding.
Mr R was initially told by the scammer that someone had made cash withdrawals from his 
account and then that they were applying for a loan. He said that he didnt see any pending 
transactions. In the circumstances, I consider that Mr R should have been concerned about 
what he was being told by the scammer. 
Im also not persuaded the premise of the scam was very plausible and so I think Mr R 
should have completed some checks. I cant see how Mr R taking out a loan and transferring 
the loan funds to what he thought was a computer-generated account would help a fraud 
department to catch a criminal. When he completed the loan application Mr R was told he 
was doing this to verify the fraudsters application. But the scammer gave Mr R the details to 
input so I find it hard to understand how the verification process worked too.  
Ive also thought about the fact that the genuine fraud department of Halifax blocked Mr Rs 
account and didnt allow him to make the payment. Mr R then had three telephone 
conversations with the genuine fraud department of Halifax before the payment was 
released. I find it hard to understand why, if Mr R thought the original call was from Halifaxs 
fraud department, there was a need for three further calls with the same department before 
the payment was released. And Mr R was told to lie to the advisors he spoke to from the 
Halifax fraud department. I think this ought reasonably to have caused Mr R to be very 
concerned and to have taken additional steps to satisfy himself the scammer was who he 
said he was.
During his calls with Halifaxs genuine fraud department Mr R was told of numerous 
concerns about the payment. For example, he was told that the name and account details of 
the account he was paying didnt match and that the account was in the name of a 
professional football player. Given these points I dont consider Mr R acted reasonably in 
placing his faith in the caller and following their instructions without question. 
Halifax also provided Mr R with a number of warnings that should have resonated with him 
and led him to take steps to verify what he was being told. In the second call Mr R was told 
that the payment carried a higher than normal risk of fraud. Bearing in mind this information I 
consider Mr Rs suspicions should have been raised. In the third call, and before the 
payment was made, Mr R was given information for the future that directly applied to his 
circumstances. He was told that Halifax were seeing a lot of scams where customers were 
told someone had tried to access their account or move funds. The advisor went on to say 
that the calls werent genuine, and that Halifax would never phone and ask a customer to 
move money or say an account wasnt safe. In light of this advice, I consider Mr R didnt 
have a reasonable basis for believing the caller was a genuine Halifax employee or that the 
reason for the payment was genuine. 
Overall, while I dont dispute the power a spoofed number would have had on Mr Rs 
decision making, I think the red flags that followed this were enough that Mr R ought 
reasonably to have made further enquiries before making the payment. I fully accept that Mr 
R was the innocent victim of a crime but that doesnt mean Halifax is responsible for 
returning him to the position he was in before the crime. 
Ive also thought about Halifaxs obligations under the CRM Code, what I consider to be 
good industry practice, as well as whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. The CRM Code requires Halifax to provide an Effective Warning (that is a 
warning that meets certain criteria set out in the CRM Code). More generally, Halifax had an 
obligation to be on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions in order (among 
other reasons) to try and protect its customer from financial harm from fraud.In this case, Halifaxs fraud prevention systems flagged the payment Mr R sought to make 
and so he was asked to contact Halifax to discuss it. Theres no dispute that Mr R misled 
Halifax about the purpose of the payment. I recognise that Mr R did so because hed been 
told to do so by the scammer and that he believed he was acting on the instructions of his 
bank. Undoubtedly this made it much more difficult for Halifax to provide an Effective 
Warning  as required under the CRM Code. But even though Mr R told Halifax the 
payment was for home improvements Halifax did provide warnings in respect of safe 
account scams. The warning provided in the second call explained what safe account scams 
can look like and the fact that once the payment had been made it was unlikely the funds 
could be recovered. But the warning didnt go far enough and say that the bank will never 
ask a customer to help with a fraud investigation or to move money and that if a customer is 
asked to do so its a scam. The impact of the warning in the third call is lost because the 
advisor says it relates to future payments rather than the one Mr R was making.  
In considering this case, I havent just considered the provisions of the CRM Code though. 
Overall, I dont consider it was fair and reasonable of Halifax to have accepted Mr Rs 
responses to the questions asked at face value and to allow the payment to be processed. 
Im satisfied that there ought to have been sufficient concern to override any reasonable 
reassurance Halifax could have taken from Mr Rs responses to the questions it asked in all 
the calls it had with him. 
Halifax knew that the name and account details of the payee didnt match and that the 
account appeared to be in the name of a professional footballer. Mr R explained this by 
saying that he was paying a personal account. I dont consider Halifax should have been 
satisfied with this explanation and I note that in the third call the Halifax advisor asked Mr R if 
hed established why the details didnt match and he said he hadnt.  If work costing nearly 
£25,000 had been completed by a company, Mr R should have paid that company and not 
an individual, and particularly not an individual whose name didnt match the account details. 
Halifax will be aware that scam victims are often given cover stories to hide the real reason 
for a payment request. In this case a lot of red flags were raised but the Halifax advisors 
didnt go far enough and often asked closed questions. Two of the Halifax advisors 
established that Mr R didnt pay any form of deposit and was paying the entire bill on 
completion, which is unusual, but didnt go any further. And Mr R wasnt asked to provide a 
breakdown of the total cost of the work.  
Halifax also knew that when Mr R initially tried to make the payment himself, he said he was 
paying HMRC but that when asked in calls he said he said he was paying for a loft 
conversion.  
I think that had Halifax probed further about the work that was being done and the 
breakdown of the invoice, it would have been clear that Mr R was falling victim to a scam 
and the true circumstances surrounding the payments may have been revealed. Even if they 
were not, I think there ought to have been sufficient concern here for Halifax to refuse to 
make the payment until it was satisfied of the circumstances. Halifax could, for example, 
have asked Mr R to provide a copy of the invoice. In either case, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr Rs loss could have been prevented. But, as Ive already concluded that Mr R 
didnt have a reasonable basis for belief in making the payments, its clear he had a role to 
play in what happened. In the circumstances, I think there should be a 50% deduction from 
the amount Halifax pays him.
Overall
Whilst I sympathise with Mr R as hes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam, I consider that 
he should share responsibility for his loss with Halifax. Halifax has said that it cant 
reconstruct or cancel the loan but can apply a credit of 50% of the remaining capital balance. 
Mr R would then be responsible for arranging a payment plan to pay the remaining 50% of 
the loan balance. No interest is being applied to the account now, but interest already charged should be refunded and Mr R should receive 50% of the payment he made towards 
the loan in April 2022.    
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should:
- Apply a credit of 50% of the remaining loan capital balance;
- Refund 50% of the payment Mr R made towards the loan;
- Refund all interest charged on the loan account (if any);
- Amend Mr Rs credit file to reflect the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman