DRN-4358139
The complaint
Mr H complained to Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) in August 2022 about an increased 
overdraft facility that was granted to him in March 2022. 
Mr H says Barclays acted irresponsibly in providing him with the increased overdraft facility, 
that it was unaffordable and that Barclays failed to properly take his financial circumstances 
into account.
What happened
Mr H is complaining about being accepted for an overdraft increase to £4,000 in March 
2022. Barclays has already agreed to refund overdraft charges from December 2013 until 8 
December 2021 as a goodwill gesture. 
Mr H has also complained to us about two loans he took with Barclays. I see these have 
already been looked into separately and one of my ombudsman colleagues has issued a 
final decision. 
Mr H says that Barclays acted irresponsibly in granting him the increased overdraft, 
especially given that they were already aware that he had been using other Barclays 
products for a large number of gambling transactions. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr H and Barclays had told us. She thought
Barclays hadnt acted unreasonably in relation to granting the additional overdraft lending in 
March 2022. So she didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld.  
As Mr H disagrees, his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Barclays needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
Barclays needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr H
could afford to repay before agreeing to any credit. Our website sets out what we typically
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Barclays agreed to Mr Hs online overdraft application in March 2022 after carrying out credit 
checks and searches to ensure that the amount requested was likely to be affordable. The 
credit checks and searches suggested that the amounts requested were affordable. Having 
said that, I am mindful of what Mr H has told us about issues he had with online gambling on 
his credit cards, and that at his request Barclays had put in place blocks to prevent them 
being used for further gambling. In such circumstances, I think there is an argument for 
saying that Barclays should have taken a closer look at Mr Hs circumstances before 
agreeing to the overdraft increase. But on the other hand I can see that Mr H had generally 
been managing his current account relatively well in the 18 months leading up to that point. 
So I cant say that there were significant factors that would or should have caused Barclays 
a concern about giving him access to an increased overdraft facility. 
Ive also looked through the copy bank statements we have, covering the period between 
October 2020 and up to when he applied for his increased overdraft. Having done so, I dont 
think that there was anything unusually concerning during this period of time to suggest that 
the facility ought not to have been granted, or that further checks should have been carried 
out. As our adjudicator has already noted, Mr Hs account had remained in credit, right up to 
the point he applied to have his overdraft increased. Looking at his pattern of account 
spending, I can see that he was able to fund his essential daily outgoings and was finding 
sufficient disposable income to be able to pay for non-essential spending. Ive not seen 
notable evidence of Mr H using his current account for the purpose of online gambling prior 
to be granted the increase. And I havent seen anything else when looking at Mr Hs account 
transactions to suggest that his overall financial position might have been deteriorating. Also, 
given the level of disposable income Mr H appears to have had when he applied, I suspect 
this was a further factor seen by Barclays that helped make it possible for it to readily agree 
to the overdraft limit increase. 
I know Mr H considers that Barclays ought not to have granted him the overdraft increase 
given that hed already been granted a loan from them in July 2021 for a substantial sum. I 
note in passing that this appears to have been used solely for the purpose of purchasing 
premium bonds, rather than for other purposes such as consolidating debt or paying for an 
essential item, such as a car. I think this helps to support the likelihood that Mr Hs overall 
financial position was relatively secure. Mr H says, however, that taken together with his 
then existing financial commitments, granting him the overdraft credit would have been 
unfair and so Barclays ought to have realised it was likely to be unaffordable. But again, 
taking everything Ive seen into consideration, it does seem to me that by March 2022 Mr H 
appeared to be managing his financial situation relatively well. 
It follows that I dont think Barclays treated Mr H unfairly or irresponsibly when providing him 
with his overdraft increase in March 2022. Im therefore not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope he will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that he will at least feel his concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman