DRN-1386678
The complaint
Mr W says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a store card.
What happened
In April 1997 Mrs W applied for a store card. At the same time, PPI was added to the 
account. The PPI covered her repayments towards the card if she lost her job, was off work 
sick, or if she died. It also included cover for accidental damage and theft of goods bought 
with the card. The cost of the PPI was charged to the account, so Mrs W would repay this 
extra charge with interest in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs W thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 February 2020. I said that, based on 
what I'd seen, I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said I wasn't satisfied that Mrs W 
agreed to the policy. To apply for PPI Mrs W needed to tick a box labelled "yes" in a section 
headed "payment and purchase protection". But in this case the box appeared to have been 
been crossed through and initialled by the person completing the application on behalf of the 
business. I thought it was unusual for the form to be completed in this way. Mrs W just 
needed to tick the box - so if Mrs W wanted the policy I'd either have expected to see no 
initials at all, or Mrs W's initials. I wasn't satisfied, based on the way the form had been 
completed, that it showed Mrs W wanted the policy. I was also mindful that Mrs W said she 
wouldn't have agreed to it if given a choice. So I thought, based on what I'd seen, that Mrs 
W's complaint should be upheld.
I said I'd consider anything further AXA or Mrs W had to add. Neither have sent me anything 
further to consider. I've therefore looked at the complaint again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
As neither AXA nor Mrs W have sent me anything further to consider, I reach the same 
conclusions for the same reasons. I'm not satisfied Mrs W agreed to the PPI. I therefore 
uphold Mrs W's complaint.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs W in the financial position she'd be in now if she hadn't taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs W would have owed when she closed her card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owed when she closed
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs W would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs W paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs W wouldve owed AXA something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs W what its done to work out A, B and C.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must 
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons above I uphold Mrs W's complaint that PPI was mis-sold. AXA France 
IARD should put things right by doing what I've said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman