DRN-3816058
The complaint
C complains about how Accelerant Insurance Limited handled its claim on its building 
insurance policy.
Mr D brought this complaint on Cs behalf, and for ease of reading I will refer to Mr D 
throughout. 
What happened
Mr D owns a property that benefits from a buildings insurance policy provided by the areas 
local council. This is underwritten by Accelerant. At three points in 2021 he had need to 
claim following three escapes of water in the communal area of the building. One in May, 
one in July and one in December. 
During the course of these claims, Mr D has been unhappy with the way Accelerant had 
handled them and has made a number of different complaints about issues relating to the 
settlement offered, service received and delays amongst other things. In August 2021 he 
brought a complaint to this service about the problems to date. An ombudsman issued a 
decision in June 2022 and didnt uphold it. 
During this time Mr D made a number of further complaints to Accelerant about how the 
claim had progressed, unreasonable requests and various other issues.
The complaints included, but were not limited to, the following issues:
Further delays to the settlement being paid for the repairs and a delay in setting up a 
new claim for the incident in December 2021.
Accelerant asked for Mr Ds bank details even though it already had them on file. 
There was a change in case handler which delayed matters further and meant the 
new case handler wasnt fully familiar with his previous claims. 
An unclear email sent by the claims handler regarding the loss of rent payments and 
cover for carpets. 
A video call was requested rather than a surveyor being appointed straight away. 
The conduct of staff members throughout the claim. 
Accelerant had responded to each of these complaints across a number of final response 
letters. It offered a total of £250 compensation for various delays. However Mr D remained 
unhappy and asked this service to investigate. 
Our investigator considered the issues raised but didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He said he hadnt been able to identify that Accelerant had unnecessarily delayed 
the claim or that its staff had acted inappropriately. He therefore didnt think it should do 
anything further. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has raised a number of points that he has been unhappy with throughout the three 
claims. As this service issued a final decision on his previous complaint that considered 
matters up until August 2021, I wont be considering any of the complaints raised before this 
date. Nor will I comment on matters addressed in the decision. 
From the records Ive seen, Mr D has raised over 30 complaints in the period between 
August 2021 and July 2022 that I will be considering. And has therefore raised a number of 
issues and concerns. As this is an informal service, I wont be commenting on every point he 
has raised. Instead Ive reviewed the claim as a whole throughout this time, to decide if 
Accelerant has dealt with his claim fairly and reasonably. And while Ive not addressed each 
of Mr Ds concerns directly, I want to reassure him that Ive considered everything he has 
said and submitted when reaching my outcome.  
Mr D has said that Accelerant has caused delays that could have been avoided by 
requesting unnecessary information rather than progressing the claim. When an insurance 
claim is made, its reasonable that the insurer will need to validate the claim. This will mean 
itll need information to show what repairs are required, how much these will cost and that 
the damage is covered under the policy. Ive looked at the correspondence between Mr D 
and Accelerant and I dont agree it has made unreasonable requests. There have been 
times when it has asked for invoices and proof of previous repairs. But these are all things I 
would expect an insurer to consider when deciding whether a claim meets its liability. So I 
dont agree these are unnecessary delays. 
I note Accelerant asked for Mr Ds bank details when these were already on file. However as 
it was due to make a transfer of money, I consider it prudent to check the details it had were 
correct before doing so. So I dont think this was an unreasonable request in the 
circumstances. 
Mr D has also complained about the conduct of various staff members. Including complaints 
about unclear emails and unprofessional conduct. Ive considered the correspondence 
provided and Ive been unable to identify any unreasonable conduct from Accelerants staff. 
Mr D has had a number of queries and raised a significant number of complaints and from 
what Ive seen staff members have responded with patience while consistently trying to 
move the claim forwards. So I dont agree its provided an unreasonable service.
I note Mr D has complained about a new case handler taking over his case. While I 
understand why it would have been frustrating to have a case handler allocated who hadnt 
been involved in previous claims, I dont consider this to be an unreasonable action. And Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that this had a detrimental impact on the claim. 
Mr D has also complained about the settlement for the carpet, however as this was 
addressed in this services previous decision I wont comment further on this here. 
So based on my review of all available evidence, Im satisfied that Accelerant has acted 
fairly and reasonably in the handling of the claim. And while the claims have taken some 
time to resolve, I dont agree that this is due to Accelerants mishandling. Its offered Mr D £250 compensation across its final response letters in relation to the complaint Im 
considering and I consider this generous in the circumstances. So I wont ask it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf of 
C, to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman