DRN-2935946
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that TFS Loans Limited provided her with a loan in April 2010. She says 
she couldnt afford to make the repayments and that it put her under significant financial 
strain. 
What happened
In April 2010 Mrs A took out a loan of £3,000 with TFS for some roof repairs. The loan was 
repayable over 3 years, the monthly repayment amount was £216.70 and the total amount 
repayable £7,802.20. 
In 2019, Mrs D complained to TFS that when it granted the loan, it had taken some benefits 
into account that were subsequently stopped. Mrs D said this caused her anxiety problems 
and nearly led to her losing her house. 
TFS didnt uphold the complaint. It said it wouldnt investigate the complaint because the 
affordability assessment being complained about had taken place more than six years prior. 
Mrs D referred the complaint to us. Upon finding this out, TFS said the complaint wasnt one 
that we could consider, because it had been brought too late. An adjudicator here thought 
the complaint was one we could consider, because although it had been made more than six 
years after the loan was taken out, there was no evidence to suggest that Mrs D was aware, 
or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint more than three years 
before she complained. 
TFS disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman to decide whether or not 
we could look into the merits of the complaint.
The ombudsman issued a decision saying that the complaint was one we could consider, for 
similar reasons to those given by the adjudicator.
An investigator then considered the merits of the complaint. She said that the information 
TFS gathered before agreeing to lend, suggested that Mrs D would struggle to make the 
loan repayments in a sustainable fashion. This was based on Mrs D being behind on her 
mortgage repayments, missing payments on other credit that she had and taking out Payday 
Loans shortly before applying for the loan with TFS. She said that because of this, TFS 
should refund all interest and charges paid by Mrs D on the loan.
TFS disagreed. It said, in summary, that:
- It still thought the complaint had been brought too late. Mrs D had said she had first 
become aware of cause for complaint following a conversation with someone at the 
CAB in 2019, but she had approached an IVA practitioner in November 2012 and 
they wouldve been obligated to give similar advice, so the complaint was out of time 
by 2018.
- The credit report and bank statements didnt flag any current financial difficulties. In 
fact, the statements show that Mrs D was making paying more than the contractual 
monthly amount towards the mortgage. This suggests she had stabilised the 
previous issues she was facing.
- Mrs D needed the loan because it was for roof repairs and this wouldve been a 
priority
- Credit reports for 2016 and 2018 show that Mrs Ds finances greatly improved, with 
secured and unsecured borrowing reducing over time. 
- It has always been a responsible lender carrying out borrower focused 
assessments. It had carried out proportionate checks and made a fair lending 
decision.
The investigator still thought the complaint should be upheld. She said that the jurisdiction 
decision had been made and wouldnt change. In terms of the merits of the complaint, she 
said that whilst Mrs D may indeed have had a need for the funds, ultimately it was 
irresponsible to lend if the repayments were likely unsustainable. She also said that the later 
credit reports were irrelevant to the decision to lend and that she still thought Mrs Ds 
circumstances (in particular her recent credit history) indicated that the loan was 
unaffordable.
TFS still disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
I asked the investigator to request some further information from Mrs D about her 
circumstances at the time of the loan. This was in relation to the mortgage repayments she 
was making, another current account she had which was overdrawn well beyond its limit and 
the Payday Loans shed taken out in the lead up to the TFS loan being granted.
Mrs D said, in summary, that:
- She was making overpayments to the mortgage to try to get it back on track, as she 
was being threatened with court action. She was struggling to afford to make the 
repayments, which is why she had taken out Payday Loans.
- The overdraft was on another current account. She was using it to pay off her 
Payday Loans and other loans.
- She was trapped in a vicious cycle of debt where she would be taking out more 
borrowing to pay off other borrowing. That was the reason why she applied for an 
IVA in 2012 that didnt go through because she was advised that a debt management 
plan would be more suitable. 
TFS has had sight of this and been given the opportunity to provide any further comments. It 
hasnt provided any.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
JurisdictionIll first deal with TFS concern about the decision made by another ombudsman to say that 
this complaint is one that we can consider. 
TFS says that the ombudsman may have made his decision without taking account of the 
significance of Mrs D approaching an IVA practitioner in 2012. TFS says that Mrs D wouldve 
become aware of cause for complaint at that time, because the practitioner wouldve been 
obligated to give similar advice to that given by the CAB in 2019. 
Ive thought about what TFS has said about this. And it doesnt make a difference. I say this 
because we have nothing to suggest that the IVA practitioner did discuss making an 
unaffordable lending complaint with the consumer in 2012. Whilst TFS thinks that is 
something the practitioner wouldve been obligated to do, that doesnt mean it is something 
that was done.
I think, on the balance of probabilities, that a consumer in such financial distress that they 
were considering an IVA would have grabbed at any opportunity to relieve some of their 
debt. So, if Mrs D had been made aware at that time that she could make an unaffordable 
lending complaint I think she would have done so.
So on balance I conclude that it is most likely that the IVA practitioner didnt make Mrs D 
aware of her cause for complaint, and I otherwise agree with the outcome reached by the 
previous ombudsman, for the same reasons.
The merits of this complaint
At the heart of this complaint, I need to decide whether TFS did enough to establish whether 
the loan was affordable for Mrs D.
The legal and regulatory framework
Mrs D applied for the loan in April 2010, so the Office of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending 
Guide (OFT ILG ) applied at the time. The following parts of the guide are particularly 
relevant in this case:
4.1
In the OFT's  view,  all assessments  of affordability  should  involve  a consideration  of 
the potential  for the credit  commitment  to adversely  impact  on the borrower's  financial  
situation,  taking  account  of information  that the creditor  is aware  of at the time the 
credit  is granted.
4.2
Whatever  means  and sources  of information  creditors  employ  as part of an 
assessment  of affordability  should  be sufficient  to make  an assessment  of the risk of 
the credit  sought  being  unsustainable  for the borrower  in question.  In our view  this is 
likely  to involve  more  than solely  assessing  the likelihood  of the borrower  being  able 
to repay  the credit  in question.  We consider  that before  granting  credit.creditors  
should  take reasonable  steps  to assess  a borrower's  likely  ability  to be able to meet  
repayments  under  the credit  agreement  in a sustainable  manner.4.3
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
-without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness
-over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
-out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.
4.4
The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances 
that were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
-while also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
-without having to borrow further to meet these repayments.
4.26 (under Unsatisfactory business practices and procedures)
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
So, in essence, TFS needed to check that Mrs D could sustainably repay the loan. 
 
TFS says that it did carry out proportionate, borrower focused checks to ensure that Mrs D 
could afford to make the loan repayments. And that it made a fair lending decision. 
I can see from the file that, amongst other things, TFS obtained information about Mrs Ds 
credit history and also some recent bank statements, before agreeing to lend. 
The credit history shows that Mrs D was behind with her mortgage repayments and had 
been for some time. A mortgage is regarded as a priority debt for the reason that if payments 
arent made in full and on time, the borrower is ultimately at risk of their home being 
repossessed. So, the fact that Mrs D had been behind with her mortgage payments for a 
significant period of time, should have raised immediate question marks about the state of 
her finances  and her ability to take on more debt. 
TFS has pointed out that the bank statements Mrs D provided to them before the loan was 
agreed, show that she was paying more than the contractual monthly payment. It says this 
shows that her finances were actually quite stable at this point  given that she could afford 
to make higher payments. Mrs D says that she was making the higher payments because the mortgage company had 
threatened court action. And that she was borrowing money from elsewhere (such as 
through Payday Loans) to be able to make the mortgage payments.
The credit history also shows that Mrs D had just gotten behind on the repayment towards a 
credit card (and was over the credit limit), had recently been behind on repayments towards 
a mail order account, and was significantly over the limit on an overdraft facility. These 
things further point towards Mrs D having difficulty managing her finances and that any 
additional borrowing would simply make matters worse.
In addition, the bank statements that TFS were in receipt of before agreeing to lend, show 
that Mrs D had taken out a number of Payday Loans in the lead up to this borrowing. TFS 
says that the loans were used to cover short terms gaps and that taking out Payday Loans in 
this way can be a cheaper option than receiving charges from there not being enough 
money in the account to make up and coming payments. 
Mrs D has told us that she was using Payday Loans to cover shortfalls and to pay off other 
debts. 
I do not find TFS arguments in relation to the Payday Loans at all compelling. What Mrs D 
has told us is consistent with her circumstances as indicated by the information within the 
credit report that TFS obtained before agreeing to lend. I find that the Payday Loans further 
indicate that Mrs D was struggling with her finances and had become reliant at least to some 
degree on high cost short term loans. 
Taking all of this into account, I find that TFS did not make a fair lending decision, based on 
the information it had obtained before agreeing to lend. 
TFS has pointed to copies of Mrs Ds credit file from 2016 and 2018. It says that these show 
an improvement in Mrs Ds financial situation, indicating that Mrs D wasnt in financial 
distress. I note though, that TFS hasnt in this context made mention of Mrs D approaching 
an IVA practitioner in 2012, around two years after it gave Mrs D the loan. This supports the 
notion that Mrs D was struggling with her finances when TFS agreed to lend to her. 
TFS has also said that the loan was for roof repairs  and that this was something Mrs D 
wouldve needed. This may well have been the case. However, it doesnt alter the fact that 
TFS obligation was to ensure that Mrs D could sustainably repay the borrowing in question. 
And I dont think it did that. 
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mrs D in the position she would now be in if she hadnt 
been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mrs D 
was given the loan and she had use of the money. And, in these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mrs D back in the position she would be 
in if she hadnt been given the loan in the first place.
I dont think it appropriate for TFS to benefit from an unfair lending decision.Bearing this in mind, TFS needs to do the following:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mrs D has paid to date.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce any outstanding capital balance by the 
amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, any outstanding capital balance remains, ensure that it isnt subject to 
any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if Step 2 leads to a positive 
balance, the amount in question should be given back to Mrs D and 8% simple 
interest should be added to the surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ds credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The business must give the consumer a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct TFS Loans Limited to do what 
Ive set out under Putting things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman