DRN-2012227
The complaint
Mr S has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has rejected his claim for further 
damage to his car following an accident. He also says AXA should have written-off his car.
What happened
Mr Ss car was involved in an accident and his car was inspected. A report was compiled 
that gave an estimate of the repair costs which covered mainly cosmetic damage. 
Mr S complained that his car started to make noises after the accident that werent present 
before the accident took place. AXA obtained a report that explained only cosmetic damage 
was caused to the car in the accident, and no mechanical damage. It further explained that 
the impact of the accident was not enough to cause the mechanical damage being claimed.
Damage was found to the cars flywheel and Mr S explained that he thought the damage 
was as a result of the accident. Mr S supported his view by obtaining an independent report 
of his car.
AXA didnt agree so Mr S brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by 
our Investigator. She looked at all the information available but didnt think there was enough 
evidence to say the mechanical damage to Mr Ss car was related to the accident, so she 
didnt ask AXA to carry out any further repairs.
Our Investigator also considered whether Mr Ss car should have been written-off. But she 
found AXA had acted reasonably in agreeing to pay for the accident related repairs.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings, so this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
mechanical damage to Mr Ss car
AXA declined to pay for damage to Mr Ss cars flywheel. It arranged a report from the 
manufacturer garage that found no mechanical damage was caused to the car in the 
accident and that the impact wasnt enough to cause damage to the flywheel.
AXAs in-house engineer also considered the claim and said the flywheel is towards the back 
of the engine bay, and the cosmetic damage was to the front of the car. Therefore, it 
wouldnt be possible for the damage to the flywheel to be caused in the accident. 
To counter this Mr S has also provided his view of how the damage could have been caused 
as a result of the accident and arranged for his own independent report. In relation to the 
flywheel damage the report stated:
03: - An adverse noise was noted from the transmission, that has occurred since
the accident, the costing for which has not been included in the engineers
figures. Although the engineer accepts the presence of the noise, at this juncture
without further dismantling is unable to apportion potential damage to the
impact.
While I appreciate Mr S has gone to the effort of arranging and paying for this report, I dont 
think it shows that the damage to the flywheel was caused in the accident. Looking at all the 
evidence provided, I think AXA has acted fairly in deciding not to consider the damage to the 
cars flywheel as part of this claim.
decision not to write-off Mr Ss car
Mr S feels his car should have been written-off by his insurer. This would have allowed him 
to claim against another policy he also had.
Mr Ss motor insurer can decide how it settles a claim, whether by repairing the vehicle or 
choosing to write it off. It has explained that based on the cost of repairing the accident 
related damage it chose to carry out repairs, it did this because the cost of repairs was 
substantially less than the cost of writing-off the car.
I appreciate this decision has left Mr S with a car requiring repair, but as I am unable to find 
the further damage was related to the accident, I am unable to hold AXA responsible for this, 
or suggest that it should have written-off the car.
I can see there was some confusion over what part of Mr Ss car was damaged, and he feels 
he has been misled, but as there is not enough evidence to show any mechanical damage 
was caused during the accident, I dont think AXA needs to do anything to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman