DRN-3025071
The complaint
Miss M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited did not close her very account 
when she asked it to. 
What happened
Miss M opened a very shopping account in October 2019. The very account is run by Shop 
Direct, with which Miss M had a credit agreement.
In December 2020 Miss M called Shop Direct to make a payment and to ask that the 
account be closed. Shop Directs records indicate that it told Miss that it would take up to 30 
days for the account to be closed.
In the middle of January 2021 Miss M contacted Shop Direct again. She told Shop Direct 
about a dispute dating back to February 2020, when she says she had returned an item but 
had not received a refund. Very had asked for proof the item had been returned but had not 
received it. Shop Direct agreed to provide a refund by cheque. It says it told Miss M that this 
would delay the account closure.
Shop Directs records indicate that a cheque was issued on 25 January 2021 and cashed by 
Miss M on 17 February 2021. The account was closed a few days later and the credit 
agreement ended on 6 March 2021. Shop Direct did not therefore agree with Miss M that 
there had been any unreasonable delay on its part. 
Miss M referred the matter to this service. Our investigator did not consider that Shop Direct 
had acted unreasonably or unfairly. Miss M did not agree with that assessment, however, 
and asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I believe that Shop Directs account of events is accurate. That is, I accept that it told Miss M 
that closing the account might take up to 30 days and that processing the refund cheque 
would be likely to delay the closure. In my view, neither the original timescale nor the 
extended one was unreasonable. The account was closed some 60 days after the initial 
request. However, it was not until the middle of January 2021 that Shop Direct knew about 
the dispute from February 2020; and the cheque was not cashed for some three weeks after 
it was issued. I do not believe therefore that I can fairly say that Shop Direct was at fault. 
Closure took more than 30 days because of the need to issue a refund, send a cheque to 
Miss M and wait for it to be paid into her account.      
Because I do not believe that Shop Direct delayed things unreasonably, I do not need to 
discuss what it should do to make things right. I will however make some observations on 
that issue. 
When I determine a complaint, I can make an award to reflect any financial loss a 
complainant has suffered. Where I determine a complaint in favour of a complainant, I can 
also make an award to reflect any material distress or inconvenience they have suffered. 
Whilst Miss M has said that she wanted her credit record to show that the account had been 
closed, she has not identified any actual loss that resulted from any delay. She has said that 
she was concerned that Shop Direct might not actually do what she had asked it to do. I am 
not persuaded however that any such concerns were objectively justified or sufficiently 
material as to merit compensation. So, even if I took a different view on the reasons for any 
delay, it is unlikely that I would make an award in Miss Ms favour.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Miss Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman