DRN-3149391
The complaint
Mrs E complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt recall and refund her a payment 
when she told it she was the victim of a scam. Shes also unhappy with the information shes 
been given by the bank about this and how the case has been dealt with.
What happened
Mrs E is unhappy with the response from Barclays when she asked it to recall a faster 
payment shed made, on 20 December 2020, to buy a car. Mrs E called the bank on 2 
January 2021 and asked it to start an indemnity claim to retrieve that faster payment as she 
wasnt happy with the car. 
On 11 January 2021 Mrs E again called Barclays and told it she believed shed been the 
victim of a purchase scam on 20 December 2020. Barclays opened an investigation. On 10 
March 2021 it told Mrs E this was deemed to be a buyer seller dispute. Mrs E complained 
the next day and requested a transcript of the call.
In its Final Response to the complaint Barclays told Mrs E after reviewing the scam case 
shed raised - and from the events described - it thought this was a buyer seller dispute 
which it couldnt get involved with, so there was no further action it could take. Barclays 
acknowledged Mrs E was unhappy she hadnt been told that at the time shed logged the 
scam case with it, but said such cases had to be fully investigated before any outcome was 
decided. So, Barclays thought the correct process had been followed and suggested that, 
due to the nature of the dispute, Mrs E may want to seek independent advice or take the 
matter up directly with the third party seller.
Barclays did accept the information Mrs E had been given in calls with a complaint handler 
couldve been delivered better and it apologised that her original complaint wasnt reopened 
as promised. It offered her £350 compensation to apologise for the poor customer journey 
and the inconvenience that caused. Mrs E declined this and brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the substantive part of the complaint about the retrieval and 
refund of the payment as she agreed with Barclays view of this as a civil dispute and not a 
scam. She also thought this case wasnt covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
which applies to Authorised Push Payment scams as Mrs E received the car shed paid for. 
And she thought the fact that Mrs E received but wasnt happy with the condition of the car 
meant this was identified this as a civil dispute. But the investigator did think Barclays were 
wrong to log this as a scam claim when it was reported and to give incorrect information in 
the complaint calls. She was also unhappy with the delays in the banks response to Mrs E 
at certain points. But she thought Barclays apology and offer to pay £350 compensation was 
reasonable and in line with our guidelines. 
Mrs E didnt agree. She said she thought shed been misunderstood on what she was 
complaining about and all her points hadnt been considered. She thought Barclays had 
withheld vital evidence as it hadnt sent the call recording of when shed phoned them to 
authorise the payment. Mrs E said shed been told banks had protocols for calls to check for 
scams but these hadnt been followed in her case. She said shed told Barclays during this 
call she wasnt sure if this was a scam. She thought shed been in a vulnerable position 
when shed made the call as, although her husband had travelled with her to get the car, 
when shed made the call to make the payment shed been on her own with two strangers 
inside a property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Es raised several points in her submissions to this service. Ive understood and looked 
into all of those but Ive only commented on what I thinks vital in my conclusions. And it 
seems to me there are two main aspects. Firstly, the substantive issue here for Mrs E which 
is whether Barclays should refund her the payment she made for the car. And the secondary 
aspect is how her concerns and complaint, after reporting she believed she was the victim of 
a scam, were handled.
Should Barclays refund the payment?
Theres no dispute here that Mrs E received the car or that, after a short period of ownership, 
she wasnt satisfied with it. So, I can appreciate shes unhappy with the third party who sold 
it to her. As a consumer she has certain rights against a seller. But Barclays isnt obliged to 
help Mrs E enforce those rights in the same way a court might when looking at a civil 
dispute. What Im looking at is the dispute between Mrs E and Barclays and what their 
obligations are to her in this situation - not those of the third Party. And, Im afraid, in respect 
of this I dont think Barclays have acted unfairly or made any errors here. 
Im satisfied from the information Ive seen and listened to - which for the avoidance of doubt 
includes a two part call recording from 20 December 2021 in which Mrs E requests and 
authorises the payment - that Mrs E paid by a faster payment which she authorised by 
telephone after passing security with the two separate call handlers. And that this was after 
having a scam warning read to her. 
Although a faster payment was made this case cant be categorised as an Authorised Push 
Payment scam as Mrs E received the goods in return for the payment she made. So, the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model wont help her here. Had she made the payment on debit 
card she may have been able to resolve this dispute under the voluntary chargeback 
scheme run by card issuers. Or, had it been on credit card, she could have sought protection 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. But thats not the case here. 
Mrs Es told us that when she was asked in the call on 20 December 2020 if this was a 
scam, she replied that it could be. She doesnt think Barclays followed the correct protocol 
here to protect her. But I cant agree. The banks notes for the payment on 20 December 
2020 record scam statement read and customer confirms shes not under duress. Having 
listened to the call - in which the scam warning is read to Mrs E - I think those notes are 
accurate. When Mrs Es first asked if anyone is forcing her or has given her telephone or 
face to face instructions to make the payment she replies OK. Then the call handler again 
asks her to confirm shes never received this sort of instruction to which she says, no Ive 
not. The call handler explained he had to do this as there were so many scams around and 
Mrs E acknowledges this. Shes also warned in the call that although the faster payment has 
been authorised it may take up to 24 hours to go through and there may be further security 
checks. Mrs E confirms to the call handler shes just received a text message about the 
transfer and the call ended. So, Im satisfied the bank acted reasonably here.
After raising a scam investigation Barclays notes show the receiving bank didnt uphold the 
complaint as its customer provided evidence that ownership of the car had already 
transferred to Mrs E. So, I cant see Barclays did anything wrong in closing the scam 
investigation and regarding this as a buyer seller dispute.
How Barclays handled the concerns and Mrs Es later complaint.Although this wasnt a scam Barclays opened an investigation. I know theres criticism of it 
for doing so but Im not entirely sure Id agree. It seems to me Barclays advised her correctly 
when she first raised the problem on a call on 2 January 2021. Barclays notes record it 
telling Mrs E then there was no way for it to retrieve the money but it offered to speak to its 
fraud team to see if anything could be done. Barclays also told Mrs E she could inform the 
police if she was the victim of a scam. Mrs E was unhappy with this and wanted to contact 
the complaints team whose number was provided. Its only later, when Ms E calls again on 
11 January 2021 and tells Barclays that shed been the victim of a scam, that Barclays open 
the investigation. And, on the face of what Mrs E told them then, I think its equally the case 
Barclays could have been criticised had it refused to investigate such a concern. But I dont 
think it impacts on the outcome of this complaint as, either way, Barclays fully accept they 
made a number of mistakes in how Mrs E concerns were handled. And from everything Ive 
seen, I think, Barclays current position and offer is a reasonable response to Mrs Es 
complaint. 
Barclays agreed its normal timescales for a scam case investigation had been breached 
here and Mrs Es complaint wasnt reopened - as it could have been  in March 2021. And 
although it didnt accept that shed been told in call recordings shed get a refund, it did think 
the call in which shed complained could have been delivered better. Barclays thought the 
handler could have made it clear to Mrs E the difference between upholding her complaint 
and also upholding her scam claim. And, having listened to both of those calls, Id agree with 
that. I think the offer of £350 compensation for those failings is a fair reflection of the distress 
and inconvenience here and the sort of award Id have made if Barclays hadnt offered it. So, 
Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
Given how strongly Mrs E feels about what happened she may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes or against other parties. But my decision brings to an end what 
we - in trying to resolve her dispute with Barclays informally - can do for her. Ill leave it to 
her to decide whether to accept the offer of £350 from Barclays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman