DRN-3201149
The complaint
Mrs P complains that J D Williams & Company Limited irresponsibly gave her credit she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2016, Mrs P opened a J D Williams catalogue shopping account. She was given an 
initial credit limit of £175 which was increased a further nine times until it reached £3,000 in 
September 2019.
Mrs P started struggling to meet the contractual minimum payments in early 2018. However, 
she eventually cleared the balance in 2020 by borrowing money from her husband. She 
raised a complaint with J D Williams to say the credit she was given had been unaffordable 
to her and proper affordability checks hadnt been carried out. J D Williams didnt uphold the 
complaint as it didnt think it had lent irresponsibly to Mrs P. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. He said that when J D 
Williams increased the credit limit to £600 in July 2016, it ought to have completed a more 
thorough assessment of Mrs Ps financial circumstances. He thought that if it had done so it 
would likely have seen that Mrs P wasnt able to afford the new limit of £600.
J D Williams didnt agree. In summary, it said that there werent any signs that Mrs P might 
have been in financial difficulty at the time. It noted that Mrs P continued to make the 
minimum payments on the account for a considerable time afterwards and where the limit 
was significantly higher than £600. It said this demonstrated Mrs P could afford the 
repayments. Lastly, it said that given Mrs P had successfully cleared the balance in 2020 
with several large repayments, this indicated that Mrs P had the funds available. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. 
In summary, J D Williams should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs P could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. What would 
be considered proportionate will vary in each case. Generally I would expect more 
thorough checks to have been completed the higher the amount of credit being advanced, 
the greater the regular repayments, the lower the consumers income and the longer the 
consumer had been indebted without making significant strides to reducing the outstanding 
balance. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable and therefore it would be irresponsible to 
grant further credit. 
Our adjudicator explained in some detail why they didnt think J D Williams acted unfairly in 
providing the initial credit limit and subsequent increases up to £375. Neither party appears 
to have disagreed with those findings and for completeness, Im also satisfied that J D 
Williams didnt make an unfair lending decision in relation to those. This is because I dont 
think that proportionate checks would have likley shown that Mrs P couldnt afford the 
borrowing. 
The limit was increased to £600 in July 2016. At this stage I dont think J D Williams 
completed proportionate affordability checks. I say this because by this point it should 
already have tried to establish what Mrs Ps income was. Had it done so it would have seen 
she was earning around £350 per month. Ive seen that J D Williams credit checks 
revealed that she had around £4,000 in outstanding credit commitments elsewhere. On top 
of this, her balance on the J D Williams account had risen significantly in the previous two 
months and was almost at the limit.
Given the small income Mrs P had and the size of her existing credit commitments, I think 
this ought to have highlighted to J D Williams that it was likely she might struggle to 
sustainably repay a higher credit limit. It therefore should have done more to verify Mrs Ps 
financial circumstances, such as her committed expenditure. Had it done this, I think its 
likely from the evidence Ive seen that J D Williams would have discovered that Mrs P 
wasnt in a position to be able to afford the repayments on a higher credit limit in a 
sustainable way. 
Although Mrs P has told us her husband paid for most of their general living expenditure, it 
appears she was responsible for her personal credit commitments. I can see that Mrs P 
was regularly overdrawn on her current account and incurring additional charges and 
interest. Her usage of her current account suggested that she wasnt managing her existing 
commitments in a sustainable way. I think had J D Williams completed proportionate 
affordability checks it would likely have seen this information too. J D Williams therefore 
acted unfairly by increasing Mrs Ps credit limit to £600 and beyond and it should now put 
things right. 
J D Williams has argued that Mrs P managed her catalogue shopping account well even at 
higher limits and managed to clear the account making large payments in 2020. However, 
from what Ive seen, since that increase to £600, Mrs P continued to get further and further 
into debt without making any inroads into reducing the outstanding balance. While she did 
maintain her minimum payments until early 2018, that doesnt mean it was affordable for 
her. While Mrs P was able to pay the balance off eventually, this wasnt from her own 
money and therefore doesnt change the outcome Ive reached about J D Williams lending 
decision in July 2016. 
Putting things right
As I dont think J D Williams should have increased Mrs Ps credit limit to £600 in July 
2016, it should now:
Rework the account to ensure that from July 2016 onwards interest is only 
charged on balances up to £375, including any buy now pay later interest 
(being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further 
credit limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over 
limit fees should also be removed; andAs Mrs P has paid off the balance already, any rework of the account is likely 
to have resulted in her making an overpayment. Any overpayments should be 
returned to Mrs P, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made until the date of settlement. J D 
Williams should also remove any adverse information from Mrs Ps credit file 
from July 2016 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. J D 
Williams must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct J D Williams & Company 
Limited to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman