The complaint
Mr S complains that Family Money Savers Limited (FMS) pursued him for fees almost 18 
months after hed received a PPI payment. Hes also unhappy with the number of calls he 
received from FMS after it had issued its invoice.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr S agreed that FMS could pursue a Plevin complaint on his behalf in 
relation to the sale of Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
Mr S signed a further Letter of Authority in July 2017 confirming he wanted it to act for him. 
This resulted in a PPI award that was paid to him in November 2017. Mr S said that he 
heard nothing from FMS until March 2019, when he received a letter saying he owed it a fee. 
He said he was surprised to receive this as hed heard nothing for so long. He said that his 
lender had written to FMS in November 2017 notifying it of the award so there was no 
reason for the delay.
He says that after receiving the letter in March 2019, he received a series of calls and texts. 
He said he felt harassed, especially as hed heard nothing from FMS for 18 months and was 
now receiving regular calls.
FMS said it didnt receive the letter from his lender in November 2017. It said it only 
discovered a payment had been made after it contacted the lender following the publication 
of the regulator's final guidance on the Plevin issue in November 2018.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She didnt think FMS had avoided charging 
Mr S as she couldnt see that it would benefit from doing this. She also thought that it would 
have contacted Mr S sooner if it had been aware hed received payment.
She did agree that FMS could've done more to keep Mr S updated. She agreed that the 
£100 FMS had offered for this was reasonable.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im not upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
DRN-1153657Its not disputed that Mr S asked FMS to make a PPI Plevin complaint on his behalf. And 
FMS did submit the complaint. And a few months later Mr S received a refund from his 
lender.
Mr Ss complaint is about the length of time it took FMS to send him an invoice for payment 
of the fee. He feels strongly that it must have been aware that a payment had been made to 
him in November 2017. And if it hadnt, he believes it should have systems in place to 
highlight cases that have been unresolved for such a length of time. 
Its not in dispute that a fee is due. And I note that Mr S has paid the full fee requested. But 
he remains unhappy with the circumstances, and the amount of compensation offered by 
FMS.
Mr S says he heard nothing from FMS until 18 months after he received the award. So I can 
understand why he was upset when he received the invoice asking for payment some time 
later  in March 2019.
So whilst Im satisfied that FMS is entitled to charge Mr S for its success fee, I agree that it 
did nothing for 18 months. Mr S heard nothing, and then in a short period of time he received 
the invoices and a series of phone calls and texts chasing him for payment. FMS has agreed 
that it should have kept Mr S regularly updated with the progress of his claim. And its true to 
say that if it had done so, it would have found out from Mr S that hed received payment. But 
Ive found no reason why FMS would say that it hadnt received the notification from the 
lender. I agree that there was no benefit in it doing so. And because it didnt receive the 
letter from the lender doesnt mean it did anything wrong.
Ive looked at the calls between Mr S and FMS after it had issued the invoice. I can see that 
Mr S felt harassed by these calls. And I dont doubt he felt under pressure to pay, and 
receiving calls so soon after the invoice must have been distressing. But I dont think that 
FMS made an unreasonable amount of calls. I also note FMS listened to Mr Ss concerns, 
and agreed a payment plan to allow him to spread the re-payments.
Whilst I accept that Mr S isnt happy with the amount of time it took to ask him for payment, 
he did receive his refund. I agree with our investigator that the £100 offered by FMS is a fair 
amount of compensation for the trouble and upset it caused by not keeping him updated, so 
it doesnt need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman