DRN-3806878
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs Y are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around January 2014, Mr Y was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr Y decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In March 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on behalf of Mr Y and his wife under 
sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a 
number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was 
these misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs Y to enter into the contract with P. 
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £8,250 to mislead them, as when the 
interest was added the total cost was actually £16,126.20;
Mr and Mrs Y were promised a tax-free year one benefit of £1,075.08 but were not 
made aware that after making the loan repayments there would be an annual deficit;
the system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments; and
the system would not cost them a penny.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that the claim had been brought too late 
under the Limitation Act.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator agreed that it was too late to consider a 
claim under section 75, but not too late to consider a claim under section 140A since Mr Ys 
relationship with Shawbrook was still continuing. However, she didnt think that P had 
misrepresented the system to Mr Y, and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view but did not provide any further comments. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why, but first I will deal with a jurisdictional 
issue.
Who is eligible to complain?
This complaint was brought on behalf of Mr and Mrs Y, but only Mr Y signed the loan 
agreement and only he is named on the contract as a party. Only he is named in Ps quote 
as a customer. So under the FCAs rules, only Mr Y is eligible to bring a complaint about this 
matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I have therefore treated this complaint as being brought by Mr Y alone, but that does not 
mean that I cannot take into account what Mrs Y has told us about it.
I will now turn to the merits of this complaint.
Relevant considerations and time limits
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act, and also the 
Limitation Act 1980.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr Y paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr Y could normally claim against Shawbrook 
(the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). However, under the Limitation Act he had to bring his 
claim within six years, and he did not. So I think that Shawbrook was entitled to reject his 
claim under section 75.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system by P. Section 56 
says that any negotiations between Mr Y and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been 
conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook. As Mr Ys relationship with Shawbrook is still 
ongoing, and any unfairness resulting from any misrepresentation made by P will still be 
ongoing, I agree with my colleague that Mr Ys claim about this was brought within the 
limitation period, even though the misrepresentation (if any) was made more than six years 
earlier.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr Y says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled System Performance and Returns. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr Ys testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr Y, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and 
Mrs Ys version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr Y was told that the overall cost of the system was more 
than its cash price. The credit agreement makes it clear that £8,250 is only the cash price. It 
sets out a clear breakdown of the deposit, the amount of credit provided, the total charge for 
credit, the monthly payments, and the total amount repayable, £16,126.20.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr and Mrs Ys recollections, Im satisfied that 
Mr Y was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, each made it clear that it would cost Mr Y more than the cash 
price as he had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
FIT payments and savings
Mr Y has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Ys recollections of his meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr Y could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr Y could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £429.27. The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr Y 
could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings are £190.95 and, 
when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr Y, the combined income and 
savings in year one are shown as £714.30. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
This results in an average monthly income of £59.53. Im satisfied that the same document 
set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £89.60. As a result, Im not able 
to conclude that Mr Y was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT payments and savings.
Theres a section headed PSP Scheme Repayment Options with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mr Y entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £89.60. (This is slightly off; the 
loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £89.59, but the difference  1p  is too 
small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a 
negative figure for the first nine years of the loan, meaning that the system would only begin 
to make enough money to cover the loan payments from year ten.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr Y could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about Mr 
and Mrs Ys version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr Y that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr Y was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The System Performance and Returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
estimated performance of the system over 20 years. This shows that it would take ten years 
for the overall benefits that Mr Y could expect to receive to match the cash price of the 
system, £8,250.(This figure also appears in the Putting it all together section.)
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £16,126, 
would be reached by the end of year 16.
If these were untrue statements of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced Mr Y to 
enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether 
this is in line with the contract between P and Mr Y.
Performance
The MCS certificate sets out that the system is expected to produce 2,616 kWh a year. 
I have looked at Mr Ys FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,467 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale (94%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr Y has not seen the expected financial returns 
is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used statistical data between 2004 and 2014 to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020, and the increases 
have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think this explains why Mr Y 
hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar 
panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the 
savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available at 
the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them as the 
basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr Y could have expected to receive from 
the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr Y entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr Y to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman