DRN-4348538
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the way that BUPA Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on 
a group private medical insurance policy. She considers that BUPA wrongly disclosed her 
personal information to her employer during the claim process.
What happened
Mrs F is insured under her employers group private medical insurance policy.
In March 2023, Mrs F contacted BUPA to make a claim on the policy. She wanted to make 
an appointment with a particular mental health specialist. It seems BUPA told Mrs F that it 
wasnt aware of the specialist and that she should speak to her employer. In the meantime, a 
referral to another specialist was arranged.
It appears that Mrs F told her employer about BUPAs response to her claim. So Mrs Fs 
employer sent BUPA an email, which queried BUPAs position regarding the particular 
treating specialist. It passed on Mrs Fs details to BUPA to help BUPA look into things. 
BUPA told Mrs F's employer that Mrs Fs referral hadnt been for treatment which was 
provided by that particular specialist  and that Mrs F had been helped to make her referral. 
It didnt provide the employer with any information about what Mrs Fs referral had been for, 
or the specialist shed been referred to.
Mrs F felt that BUPA had wrongly disclosed her personal medical information to her 
employer during the course of the claim and she complained. 
BUPA issued a final response to M rs Fs complaint which said there was no record of it 
speaking with her employer. So Mrs F asked us to look into her complaint.
Subsequently, BUPA told us that it had found the emails between it and Mrs Fs employer on 
a different system. However, it felt that the email contact had been initiated by Mrs Fs 
employer after Mrs F had told her employer about her initial claim. And it maintained that 
none of Mrs Fs personal medical information had been disclosed to her employer.
Our investigator didnt think M rs Fs complaint should be upheld. He felt BUPA had been 
entitled to respond to M rs Fs employers query, given the employer was the policyholder. 
And he didnt think BUPA had disclosed any personal medical information to M rs Fs 
employer. So he didnt think BUPA had done anything wrong.
Mrs F disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint M rs F, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mrs F that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and her submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all shes said and sent us. 
Its also important that I make it clear that as much of M rs Fs complaint is centred on 
whether or not BUPA disclosed personal information and therefore, whether it breached data 
protection laws, it may be more appropriate for these issues to be investigated by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Mrs F indicated that shed told the ICO what had 
happened, but it isnt clear whether or not shes made a formal complaint to it. Or if she has, 
what outcome the ICO reached.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. In 
this case, its clear - from BUPAs notes and from the emails between BUPA and M rs Fs 
employer  that BUPAs initial claims handler had been confused about the treating 
specialist M rs F had initially wanted to see. I dont doubt that this was frustrating for M rs F . 
However, it also appears that BUPA was able to assist Mrs F with the referral she had at this 
point. And BUPA went on to cover the cost of M rs F
s appointment with an appropriate 
specialist in May 2023. So I think that, overall, BUPA was able to handle M rs Fs claim in a 
fair and prompt way and that Mrs F was able to benefit from the policy.
It's clear that during the course of the claim, Mrs F approached her employer because BUPA 
had indicated that it wasnt aware of the particular treating specialist she wanted to see. So I 
find that Mrs Fs employer became aware, from then onwards; that Mrs F was seeking 
treatment from BUPA  and broadly, what kind of treatment Mrs F wanted, given the 
particular specialists area of expertise. Mrs Fs employer approached BUPA to clarify its 
position on the particular specialist M rs F had wanted to see and it passed on Mrs Fs details 
to BUPA. Given Mrs Fs employer is the policyholder, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
BUPA to respond to the employers query to provide clarity about its position on that 
particular specialist. 
Having looked carefully at the whole email chain between BUPA and M rs Fs employer, I 
dont think BUPA did anything wrong when it handled the claim. It simply confirmed that M rs 
F had been given a referral and that the particular specialist shed wanted to see wouldnt 
have been suitable for her. As Ive explained, I think the employer was already aware that 
Mrs F was seeking treatment and that treatment with that particular specialist hadnt been 
authorised. And BUPA didnt tell the employer what M rs Fs referral was for or to whom it 
had been made. As such, I think it handled the claim in a reasonable way.
I acknowledge that BUPAs final response incorrectly told M rs F that there was no record of 
any contact between it and her employer. I dont doubt that this caused Mrs F some 
frustration. However, I dont think this error is likely to have caused M rs F material distress 
and inconvenience which would lead to me to make an award of compensation. Im satisfied 
that BUPA provided us with full information to allow me to make a fair and reasonable 
assessment of the complaint. So I dont think Mrs F has lost out as a result of any errors in 
BUPAs initial investigation.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with M rs Fs position, I find that BUPA handled her 
claim fairly and reasonably. So Im not directing BUPA to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M rs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman