DRN-4339275
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax lent irresponsibly when it 
approved a £20,000 loan in 2017.
 
What happened
In June 2017 Mrs C applied for a loan of £20,000 with Halifax. In the application, Mrs C said 
she was a homeowner with mortgage costs of around £600 a month. Mrs C also said she 
was employed with a monthly income of £2,400. Regular outgoings of £800 were noted in 
the application along with £200 a month for credit commitments. Halifax says it carried out a 
credit search and noted Mrs Cs outstanding balances with other lenders and regular 
payments. Halifax says it didnt find any adverse credit when it looked at Mrs Cs credit file. 
The loan was approved and paid into Mrs Cs bank account with Halifax. In the days that 
followed, Mrs C used around £6,500 to repay a loan that had previously had a monthly 
payment of £146 a month. Mrs C also repaid a credit card balance of around £8,450 that she 
had been making payments to of £192 a month. 
Mrs C has told us that the loan Halifax approved led her into a spiral of debt and that she 
went on to borrow more and more from different lenders to keep up. Mrs C explains that as a 
result of the financial difficulties she entered a debt management plan for her outstanding 
unsecured debts. 
Earlier this year, Mrs C complained that Halifax had lent irresponsibly and it issued a final 
response on 30 May 2023. Halifax said it had carried out a credit check and looked at the 
information Mrs C provided in her loan application. Halifax advised the loan had been 
approved in line with its lending criteria and didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. 
Mrs C referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Halifax shouldve carried out more comprehensive checks, like reviewing Mrs Cs 
bank statements, before approving the loan. But the investigator reviewed Mrs Cs 
statements from the period before the loan was approved and wasnt persuaded Halifax had 
lent irresponsibly. 
Mrs C asked to appeal and said Halifax had failed to use realistic outgoings when 
considering her application. Mrs C also said Halifax had access to her bank statements at 
the time so shouldve seen her outgoings were higher than claimed in the application and 
were insufficient to support a new loan. As Mrs C asked to appeal, her complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
In short, before agreeing to lend, Halifax needed to complete proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether the borrowing was sustainable for Mrs C. Theres no specific list 
of checks a lender has to complete. While it is down to the lender to decide what specific 
checks to carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, 
the total cost of the credit and what it knew about Mrs C at the time of application.
Halifax has explained that it relied on the information Mrs C provided in her application to 
base its lending decision and didnt carry out further checks like asking for evidence of her 
income or looking at bank statements. But I think our investigator made a reasonable point 
when they said the checks shouldve gone further. Mrs C was applying for £20,000 which is 
a substantial sum. And whilst I understand Halifax carried out a credit search and took the 
outgoing figure Mrs C provided into account, I think the size of the loan in addition to her 
existing commitments shouldve caused Halifax to consider carrying out further checks, like 
looking at Mrs Cs bank statements. 
Ive seen copies of Mrs Cs personal and joint bank account statements for the months prior 
to the loan application. In the application, Mrs C said her regular expenditure for outgoings 
was around £800 a month. But the statements show Mrs C was actually paying between 
£1,200 and £1,400 a month to the account that services living costs. So I agree that the 
figure used for Mrs Cs outgoings in the application was lower than the statements provided 
show. But I think its fair to add that even using the higher outgoings figure for Mrs C, her 
income wasnt fully utilised. 
In addition, I think its important to note that the majority of funds Mrs C borrowed were used 
to consolidate existing debts, reducing her credit commitments each month. Mrs Cs bank 
statements and credit file show she repaid a loan with monthly payments of £146 and a 
credit card with regular payments of around £192 a month. That means, whilst the overall 
lending was increased and Mrs C was required to make new loan payments of £268 a 
month, by repaying the debts noted above she reduced her monthly payments by around 
£340 a month. Overall, that meant Mrs Cs outgoings for her credit commitments reduced 
when the Halifax loan was approved and her existing commitments repaid. 
Whilst I agree Halifax couldve done more to check Mrs Cs circumstances during the 
application, I havent been persuaded it lent irresponsibly in this case. In my view, even if 
Halifax had carried out more comprehensive checks it wouldve still approved Mrs Cs loan 
application. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C but as I havent been persuaded that Halifax lent 
irresponsibly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman