DRN-4334184
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about how Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) dealt
with their request to switch current accounts.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M applied to switch their current account to Nationwide. They say they chose to
do this in part because Nationwide had a £200 switching offer on at the time.
Mr and Mrs M applied to switch their account, and the process was due to be completed on
18 October 2022. However, Nationwide wrote to Mr M on 13 October 2022 to request further
information from him. Mr and Mrs M say that Mr M responded within 24 hours of the request
being made, but then didnt hear back about their application to switch.
Mr and Mrs M say that as far as they were concerned, the switch had been completed.
However, Mr and Mrs M say on 24 October 2022 the newly opened account was frozen and
none of their October Direct Debits were paid, as they shouldve been under the switching
process.
Mr and Mrs M say that Nationwide repeatedly assured them that the switching process had
been completed, and that all of their Direct Debits would be paid, when in fact it hadnt and
they werent.
Because the switch was unable to be completed, Mr and Mrs M didnt earn the £200
switching incentive.
In its response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Nationwide acknowledged that it had made
errors and agreed to pay Mr and Mrs M £75 compensation.
After Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service, Nationwide contacted our service
and explained that it had changed its position on the complaint.
Nationwide said that it was willing to pay Mr and Mrs M the £200 switch incentive, as 
Mr and Mrs M clearly had every intention of completing the switching process. Nationwide 
also acknowledged that because a restriction was placed on Mr and Mrs Ms account, this 
led to the switching process being cancelled, this caused problems for Mr and Mrs Ms Direct
Debits. Nationwide agreed to increase its offer of compensation from £75 to £150.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and in summary, she concluded that the
revised offer made by Nationwide was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed, as they felt that not all aspects of their complaint had been
reflected in Nationwides offer, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 August 2023. I have included an extract of my 
provisional decision below and it forms a part of this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Its clear that the issues that Mr and Mrs M faced in switching their account was 
caused by Nationwide putting a restriction on the account, as the account needed to 
be reviewed before it could be approved. Specifically, I understand that Nationwide 
needed further information from Mr M before it could proceed with the process.
As Nationwide explained in its final response letter, it is legally obliged to understand 
its customers and their financial dealings. As this is the case, I cant say that 
Nationwides decision to put a restriction on the account whilst it reviewed Mr and 
Mrs Ms application was unfair or unreasonable.
Having read Mr and Mrs Ms testimony on this complaint, it seems that they 
understand why Nationwide needed to obtain further information. It seems they are 
largely unhappy about the lack of communication from Nationwide; the amount of 
time Nationwide took to review the account; and also the incorrect information theyd 
been given. And having considered their concerns, I too think that Nationwide did not 
handle matters as well as it couldve.
Mr and Mrs M were incorrectly told that the issue with the switching process was 
caused by a problem with their previous bank, when that was not actually the case. I 
understand that this led Mr and Mrs M to unnecessarily check with their previous 
bank to find out what the issue was. Mr and Mrs M were assured by their previous 
bank that there was no issue as far as it was concerned.
Nationwide placed a restriction on the account whilst it carried out its checks. 
Unfortunately, as the restriction was still in place on the day that the switch was due 
to complete (18 October 2022), this led to the switch being cancelled. From what I 
can see, Nationwide didnt actually inform Mr and Mrs M of this. Instead, it seems Mr 
and Mrs M were left to keep chasing Nationwide to find out whatd happened to the 
account switching process.
I think that Nationwide couldve handled matters better and shouldve told Mr and Mrs 
M what the situation was with their account, and what options (if any) were available 
to them to open an account. And I think Nationwides failure to tell Mr and Mrs M 
about this added to the distress and inconvenience that they experienced, as I 
understand that they were on holiday when events were unfolding.
In addition to Mr and Mrs M not being told that their attempt to switch accounts had 
failed, it also seems that Mr and Mrs M were then incorrectly told that their Direct 
Debits would be unaffected, when that does not appear to have been the case either. 
This resulted in Mr and Mrs M having to contact the various originators to set them 
up again, which added further inconvenience to Mr and Mrs M. I also understand that 
due to Mr and Mrs M being unable to make payments into or out of the account - 
because of the restriction placed on the account - this also led to Mr and Mrs M being 
unable to make a payment to their childs nursery, which I believe would have been a 
cause of concern for them.
I appreciate that Nationwide proactively reviewed the case again and agreed to 
increase its award of compensation. But in the circumstances, I dont think that the amount Nationwide offered fairly reflected the impact this matter has had on Mr and 
Mrs M.
When considering how much redress is reasonable, I have taken into account the 
fact that Nationwide failed to tell Mr and Mrs M that their account switch had been 
cancelled. This led to Mr and Mrs M unnecessarily contacting their previous bank and 
then chasing Nationwide for an update, whilst on holiday. And they were assured 
their Direct Debits were unaffected, but then discovered they were and then had to 
manually set them up again as well.
Conversely, I have also taken into account the fact that Nationwide is reasonably 
entitled to carry out such a review. And during the time it does, account holders are 
unable to make payments to or from the account. So I think there wouldve been an 
element of unavoidable inconvenience to Mr and Mrs M, even if things had gone as 
they shouldve. I also think its reasonable that Nationwide chose only to contact Mr 
M about the information it needed to complete its review  given that the information 
needed solely related to him.
Having weighed up the various factors, I currently think that an award of £300 for the
distress and inconvenience caused, alongside the £200 switching incentive, better 
reflects the impact this matter has had on Mr and Mrs M.
Putting matters right
So, taking everything into account, I currently think that Nationwide should pay the 
following to Mr and Mrs M to put matters right:
£200 for Mr and Mrs M missing out on the switching incentive award; and
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that this matter 
caused them.
Mr and Mrs M responded to the provisional decision and said although they agreed with my 
findings, they wanted me to also consider how Nationwide dealt with the complaint. They say 
they first complained in October 2022 and called at least a dozen times and after ten hours 
of phone calls received a formal response in December 2022. They said they then had to 
spend time and effort in responding to Nationwide, as they were unhappy with the outcome 
Nationwide had reached. 
Mr and Mrs M also asked if I had taken into account that Nationwide had told Mr and Mrs M 
around a dozen times (including in writing),that the Direct Debits would be unaffected, when 
in fact they were. Mr and Mrs M say they ended up contacting their previous bank around 
five times because of this as well.
Nationwide also responded and said that it accepted the findings in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, including Mr and Mrs Ms responses to my provisional 
decision (which I understand they did ultimately accept), I think the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision was fair.Having looked through everything, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M did put a fair amount of 
time and effort into raising their complaint with Nationwide. 
However, as the adjudicator explained, under the Dispute Resolution Rules DISP Rules 
that our service is governed by, our service can only consider complaints about specific 
activities. These activities are listed under DISP 2.3.1. It is the case that complaint handling 
is not a specified activity that our service is able to consider. Because of this, I cant award 
compensation (even if I thought some was warranted) to Mr and Mrs M because of how 
Nationwide handled their complaint. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ms points that they were given wrong information multiple times 
and ended up contacting their previous bank  unnecessarily  multiple times too. I would 
like to assure Mr and Mrs M that I did take these points into account before issuing my 
provisional decision. Indeed, these issues (alongside everything else that happened) was 
what led me to conclude that an increased amount of compensation was warranted in this 
case.
So, in summary, although I think that Nationwide had reasonable grounds in which to carry 
out its review of the account switch, I think that Nationwide couldve handled matters better 
once the switching process had been cancelled. And I think its the case that Nationwides 
shortcomings caused a fair amount of distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs M.
Putting things right
So, taking everything into account, Nationwide should pay the following to Mr and Mrs M to 
put matters right:
£200 for Mr and Mrs M missing out on the switching incentive award; and
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that this matter caused them.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and require Nationwide Building Society to do what I have outlined above, to put matters 
right, in full and final settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman