DRN-4252897
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Starling Bank Limited wont refund the money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr M was phoned by a scammer who impersonated Starlings fraud team. They said that 
hed get notifications someone was trying to make payments using his card details, and that 
he should reject them. Mr M did so. But the notifications kept coming, as it was the scammer 
who was attempting the payments. The scammer then persuaded Mr M to accept the 
transactions, saying this would allow them to suspend his accounts and reverse the 
payments. They persuaded him to give them his full card details for his other Starling 
account, and they did the same thing there too. Mr M approved around £13,200 of debit card 
payments across his two Starling accounts, made to well-known merchants.
Mr M became suspicious and reported the matter to Starling right afterwards. One of the 
merchants agreed to refund the payment to them, of around £3,100. Starling agreed to 
reimburse around £5,100 themselves, as they acknowledged that Mr M was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. But they felt they were not liable for the remaining amount of around 
£5,000.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr M fell victim to a scam, and so he has my sympathy. I appreciate this 
cant have been an easy time for him, and I appreciate why he feels that his money should 
be returned. Its worth keeping in mind that its the scammer whos primarily responsible for 
what happened, and who really owes Mr M his money back. Whereas this case is about 
Starling, so I can only consider what Starling did here.
I understand that Mr M was tricked into approving the payments, and so he feels he didnt 
authorise them. But Starlings notifications clearly set out how much each payment was for 
and where it was going to, and warned that if someone had called Mr M and asked him to 
use that screen then it was a scam and he should reject the payments. It gave him the 
choice to approve or reject each payment. Mr M approved each of the ones which went out. 
So although he didnt intend the money to go to a scammer, the payments would be 
considered as authorised. Even if one authorises a payment with the hope that it will later be 
reversed, the payment is still authorised. That means that under the Payment Services 
Regulations, Mr M is liable for the loss in the first instance. And broadly speaking, Starling 
had an obligation to follow his instructions  the starting position in law is that banks are 
expected to process payments that a customer authorises them to make. 
Starling should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or 
scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between 
identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. Ive thought carefully about whether Starling should have 
done more in Mr Ms case.
The payments in question were to established, well-known merchants who Mr M had used a 
number of times before. While Mr M hadnt paid those merchants these sorts of amounts 
before, he had made other transactions of fairly similar or higher amounts in the months prior 
to the scam. And there was still a healthy balance left in Mr Ms accounts afterwards  the 
payments didnt drain his accounts. So I dont think the payments involved were so unusual 
or out of character that Starling needed to intervene.
Further, even if I thought Starling should have flagged these payments, I would still need to 
consider Mr Ms role in the matter. I do appreciate that this was a sophisticated scam, that 
Mr M was under pressure, and that he was ultimately trying to protect his accounts. But Im 
afraid I think Mr M ought to have had more concerns about what he was being asked to do. 
I appreciate the scammer knew some of Mr Ms details, even if those details were not 
particularly difficult to obtain through common ID theft methods. But the scammer called from 
an unknown number, and Mr M didnt have any real verification of who he was talking to. It 
wouldnt make sense to have to approve unwanted payments in order to stop them  banks 
can just block the account outright, approving them wouldnt stop a fraudster from trying 
further payments (in fact, it would encourage them), and the main point of the approval 
screen is so that the customer can reject unwanted payments. Further, the approval screens 
gave Mr M a clear warning about these scams, yet he went ahead.
So even if I thought Starling should have intervened, I would only hold them liable for 50% of 
the loss, as Mr M would still share responsibility for things going wrong. And Starling have 
already refunded a little over 50% of the transactions which the merchants didnt refund 
themselves. So I cant fairly require Starling to refund anything further.
Next, Ive considered what Starling did to try to recover Mr Ms money after he told them 
about the scam. While there are methods for trying to recover funds lost to scams, they only 
apply to certain types of payments, like bank transfers  but they dont apply to card 
payments. And these were card payments. So Starling couldnt use those methods. Ive also 
thought about the possibility of a voluntary chargeback. But chargebacks can only be made 
for certain reasons under strict rules set by the card scheme. And there was no chargeback 
reason which would have fit here. So it was not realistically possible to get Mr Ms money 
back that way either. So it seems right that Starling found the merchants relevant contact details and encouraged 
Mr M to contact them  that was the most likely way to get his money back. Im glad to see 
that one of the merchants agreed to help him. I hope the other one does too.
Lastly, Mr M suggested that the scammer might have had his details due to a breach on 
Starlings end, and I appreciate why he thought to raise this. But the details he told us they 
had were details which could have been obtained through many different methods. For 
example, a merchant who Mr M paid previously may have been compromised, or scammers 
will do things like hack email accounts or go through discarded statements to find 
information. Ive not found any good reason to think that the scammer got Mr Ms details due 
to any fault or failure on Starlings part.
So while Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr M, I do not think Starling can be 
held responsible for anything more than what theyve already refunded. And so I cant fairly 
tell Starling to pay Mr M anything further in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman