DRN-3754056
The complaint
Mr H complains because Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited hasnt paid a claim under his 
income protection insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H was insured under his former employers group income protection insurance policy. 
Mr H was signed off work in 2018 and subsequently made a claim under his policy. Aviva 
declined the claim and sent Mr H a final response letter dated 18 April 2019, saying that it 
thought his absence from work was triggered by issues within his workplace and this wasnt 
considered to be a medical reason which prevented him from working. Mr H brought a 
complaint to our service. But, as Mr H brought the matter to us outside of the time-limits set 
out under our rules, we were unable to consider the merits of his complaint about Avivas 
initial decision to decline the claim. 
Mr H subsequently said he felt the reason for his absence from work had changed. In 
October 2020, Aviva said it would request up-to-date medical information from the date 
medical information was last received (February 2019), and consider whether there was now 
a valid claim for it to consider under the policy. 
Aviva sent Mr H another final response letter dated 3 December 2020. In summary, this said:
it could waive the actively at work policy term (requiring Mr H to have returned to 
work before considering a new claim) if it felt it was appropriate and if there was 
enough medical evidence to support his total incapacity from his insured role;
Mr Hs medical certificates from his GP continued to mention work-related stress for 
a period of time after February 2019;
GP medical certificates alone are not an indicator of total incapacity and Mr Hs GP 
was unlikely to be assessing Mr H against the same criteria as that of the insurance 
policy;
it had considered a report from Mr Hs psychotherapist dated 29 October 2020, but 
there was no detailed evidence to explain the severity of Mr Hs symptoms and how 
and why these were affecting his ability to function on a daily basis within the 
workplace.
Aviva also mentioned its Chief Medical Officers (CMOs) opinion, based on information 
which Mr Hs GP had provided dating back to 1980, was that Mr H could be suffering from 
chronic workplace stress. 
Unhappy, Mr H brought another complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened since February 2019 and said she 
didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr Hs claim from this 
date. Mr H didnt agree with our investigators findings, so the complaint has been referred to 
me as the final stage in our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision about Mr Hs complaint, I can only consider Avivas decision to 
review and decline the claim from February 2019. I cant consider Avivas actions before this 
date. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making this final decision. 
Mr H has sent detailed correspondence to our service and Ive read and considered 
everything he has said. But I dont intend to address every complaint point raised  nor am I 
obliged to. Instead, Ill only be addressing what I consider to be the key issues. Its for our 
service, and not either of the parties to the complaint, to determine what we think these key 
issues are. 
Mr H has placed great emphasis on the fact that his workplace issues have now been 
resolved. The Statement of Fitness for Work certificates completed by Mr Hs GP continue 
to refer to work related stress and anxiety from February 2019 up until around March 2020. 
In May 2020, the certificates changed to refer to anxiety and depression. So, I think the 
medical evidence shows that Mr Hs illness continued to be related to his work until over a 
year after February 2019. 
But, the report from Mr Hs psychotherapist and counsellor dated 29 October 2020 says, the 
factors that originally brought him to counselling have now been eliminated from his life. 
And, in November 2020, Mr Hs former employer confirmed to Aviva that there were no 
outstanding workplace issues  although this statement seems to have been a factual one 
relating to Mr Hs employment, and doesnt constitute medical evidence relating to whether 
any previous workplace factors were still continuing to impact on Mr Hs health .
Even if I accept that the reason for Mr Hs inability to work may have changed since 2018, 
this doesnt automatically mean that Aviva should have subsequently accepted his claim. Mr 
H still needs to demonstrate that he meets the policy criteria for a benefit to be paid to him. 
This policy pays a benefit in certain circumstances if the insured meets the policy definition 
of incapacity for a specific period of time. In Mr Hs case, the definition of incapacity is 
where the member is unable to:
perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her job role as a result of 
their illness or injury.
Its up to Mr H to demonstrate that he meets the policy definition of incapacity. In 
circumstances such as these, its not up to Aviva to demonstrate that Mr H is, in fact, 
capable of performing his job role.  
When making my decision, my role isnt to reach my own medical conclusions or to 
substitute expert medical opinion with my own. Instead, Ive considered the available 
medical evidence to decide whether I think Mr H has demonstrated that he meets the policy 
requirement of being unable to perform his job role due to his illness. I understand the Statement of Fitness for Work certificates completed by Mr Hs GP say he 
was unfit for work. While these certificates completed by a general medical practitioner do 
carry evidential weight, the certificates are based on symptoms which were self-reported by 
Mr H. As such, I wouldnt generally consider that GP medical certificates alone are sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that a person is totally unable to perform their job role. The 
threshold for a GP to issue such certificates and/or the criteria which Mr H would need to 
meet to satisfy a claim for state benefits are not necessarily the same as the policy definition 
of incapacity. 
Ive taken into account the other medical evidence available. This includes a letter from Mr 
Hs GP dated 18 January 2019. The letter confirms that Mr H was being seen for a 
depressed mood, had received counselling and was taking medication. But these things 
dont automatically mean that Mr H was unable to work in his job role in any capacity. And, 
the letter doesnt make any comment on why Mr H was unable to work  other than stating 
that fit notes had been issued to him.  
Ive also considered the report from the psychotherapist and counsellor dated 29 October 
2020, which was prepared in the absence of any notes from Mr Hs sessions with the 
practitioner. The report contains several comments about Mr Hs ability to work. These 
include:
his condition at present severely limits his capacity within his previous role.;
and
 is also prone to bouts of forgetfulness. The implications of Mr [H] returning to work 
in his previous capacity would pose a risk in relation to health and safety both to 
himself and others.
I accept that this report does say that Mr Hs ability to work is limited, and that a return to 
work for Mr H would present a risk. However, the report doesnt go into any further detail 
about issues such as Mr Hs wider symptoms, how or why these affected his ability to work 
in his job role in either a full-time or a part-time basis and/or whether any adjustments could 
be made for Mr H to enable him to return to his previous job role either in a reduced capacity 
or over time. The content of this report doesnt, in my opinion, set out enough detail to 
demonstrate that Mr H meets the policy definition of incapacity. 
Overall, I dont think Mr H has provided sufficient medical evidence to show that he has met 
the policy requirements for a claim to be paid to him from February 2019 onwards. And, 
based on the limited detail set out in the available medical evidence, I dont think Aviva acted 
unfairly or unreasonably either by failing to arrange for an independent medical examination 
for Mr H or by declining his claim for a second time. 
I understand Mr H has concerns about the information which Aviva provided to its CMO. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I havent relied on the CMOs opinion when making this decision. Mr 
H has also made a number of representations about the actively at work policy terms. I 
havent made any finding about whether I think this term applies, as I dont think Mr Hs claim 
is covered under his policy for the other reasons which Ive set out above.  
I have no doubt that Mr H has been through a difficult time, and Im sorry to disappoint him, 
but I wont be directing Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman