DRN-1778560
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) wont reimburse him for money he 
feels was taken fraudulently.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr S visited a private club where he says his drink was spiked. After receiving a 
dance from someone at the club he says they forced him to access the banking app on his 
phone and transfer £2,000 to their bank account in three separate transactions across a two 
hour period.
He says he feared for his safety and only felt able to leave the club after the transfers were 
made. He says staff used his phone to call a taxi to take him home where he reported the 
matter to Barclays and the police. Barclays blocked both Mr Ss account and the 
beneficiarys account, which was also with Barclays, while it investigated the matter.
Following its investigation, Barclays told Mr S it didnt have evidence to support a crime had 
taken place and the matter was a civil dispute between Mr S and the beneficiary whod 
received the funds. As such, it was unable to refund the money to him.
Mr S brought the complaint to our service. He said that:
Barclays shouldve cancelled the transactions when he reported them.
Hed been a victim of an authorised push payment scam and Barclays had a 
responsibility to protect him as its customer.
The beneficiarys account is with Barclays and is clearly involved in financial crime. 
Barclays has been negligent in allowing the account to remain open and in operation.
The transfers shouldve been stopped as he never ordinarily made transfers at that 
time of day. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays was liable for the transactions. They felt that in line with 
relevant regulations the transfers were authorised by Mr S and he hadnt been a victim of 
fraud. Mr S didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were the transfers authorised?
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). They set out when a customer is responsible for the transactions on their account  
typically when theyve been authorised by the consumer in some way. 
Mr S has explained that he accessed his banking app and made the transfers under duress. 
But whether something is authorised under the PSRs doesnt change if payments were 
made under duress. What they cover is whether or not a payment service user, in this case 
Mr S, consented to a transaction. If Barclays was satisfied these things happened, Mr S 
authorised the payment according to the PSRs.
Mr S has confirmed he used his personalised security information in order to access his 
banking app and make the transfers on the evening in question. And whilst hes said he only 
did so under duress, Mr S did consent to the transfers because he agreed to them. So Im 
satisfied that under the relevant regulation he did authorised the transfers and as a starting 
point is liable for them. But, theres more for me to consider when looking at this complaint.
Was Mr S the victim of a scam?
Mr S has said he was the victim of an authorised push payment scam which, generally 
speaking, is when an individual has been socially engineered or manipulated into making a 
payment under false pretences. But, on balance, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its 
more likely Mr S is involved in a disagreement with a merchant about the goods and services 
provided than he is the victim of a scam. So I think Barclays is acting reasonably in treating 
the matter as a civil dispute between Mr S and the beneficiary. In reaching this conclusion 
Ive taken into account the following:
The beneficiary of the funds was a Barclays customer, so it was able to contact them 
directly for their version of events. Theyve disputed that Mr S was forced to make 
any of the payments. Theyve said they work as an escort at the club and the 
transfers Mr S made were to pay for the services he received.
The bank statements for the beneficiarys account show its a long standing active 
account with signs of daily use. It also shows a number of regular transfers similar to 
the amounts Mr S paid. So it doesnt reflect the activity Id generally expect to see 
from an account being used for fraudulent activity and seems to reflect that they do 
regularly provide services for around the amounts Mr S paid. And Barclays hasnt 
said its aware of any other similar complaints about the beneficiary. 
Mr S has said the first transfer of £600 was to pay for a dance he received. Hes said 
he was too lightheaded to leave the club after this and was forced to make two 
more transfers before he felt able to leave. But if Mr S was forced to make all the 
transfers, and only one related to a service he received, its difficult to understand 
why a scammer wouldve taken the money in three separate transactions over a two 
hour period rather than all at once. Its also unclear why a scammer wouldve left 
over £500 in his account when he says they had access to his banking app.
Mr S has said the beneficiarys job as an escort means theyre participating in criminal 
activity and that he thinks for this reason Barclays shouldnt allow the account to remain 
open. Hes also suggested that in allowing the account to operate its facilitated the crime 
hes been a victim of. 
As Ive explained, I dont feel Ive seen sufficient evidence Mr S likely has been the victim of 
a scam. But its not for our service to comment on the legality of the beneficiarys occupation. 
My role is to look at whether Barclays treated Mr S fairly and reasonably when he reported 
his money had been taken and Im satisfied it did.
Should Barclays have stopped the payments?Mr S has said Barclays ought to have recognised the transfers were unusual activity and 
contacted him for further authorisation. But having considered this point carefully, I dont 
agree. 
I do expect Barclays to have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or 
other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things) in 
order to try and prevent financial harm. But I dont feel Ive seen sufficient evidence Mr S 
was at risk of fraud or financial harm. So I dont think it failed in its obligations by not 
contacting him about the transfers he made.
That said, Ive thought about whether I think the transfers in question shouldve prompted 
intervention from Barclays but I dont think they reasonably ought to have in this case. Ive 
taken into account what Mr S has said about the time the transfers were performed.  But Ive 
also thought about whether they were significantly outside of Mr Ss usual pattern of 
spending, were for such a large amount compared to his overall available funds or that a 
pattern of spending had emerged that shouldve raised suspicions.  But, overall, I dont think 
these particular transactions ought to have given Barclays cause for concern.
On balance, Im also not persuaded that if Mr S was under duress as he says, had Barclays 
contacted him for further authorisation it likely wouldve made a difference. Mr S has said he 
feared for his safety and the beneficiary had oversight of his phone. So if Barclays had tried 
to speak to him about the transfers to verify them, or blocked them entirely requesting further 
authorisation, it seems unlikely he wouldve been able to speak openly with the bank about 
what was happening and avoid authorising the payments without endangering himself 
further. If he was under duress when he made the transfers, it seems likely he also wouldve 
been under duress if asked for further verification and I dont think it likely wouldve been so 
obvious to Barclays he was under duress it ought to have intervened regardless.
Mr S has said the transfers shouldve been stopped by Barclays before they reached the 
beneficiarys account. But Barclays has done what I wouldve expected it to in this case.  
The nature of faster payments is that unless post-dated they leave the senders account and 
credit the beneficiarys within a very short space of time, and sometimes almost instantly.  
And as Ive said, I dont think the bank should have prevented that from happening. But 
when Mr S reported the incident it blocked both accounts and contacted the beneficiary to 
investigate the matter further. After doing so it concluded it couldnt reasonably return the 
funds to Mr S at that stage as the situation was a civil dispute and a police matter. I think this 
was a reasonable outcome based on the evidence available.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman