DRN-4223066
The complaint
Mr J has complained that his overdraft with TSB Bank plc (TSB) wasnt affordable and that 
the charges TSB applied kept him living in his overdraft and caused him financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr J had an account with TSB with an agreed overdraft limit of £3,000. TSB have told us the 
last limit increase was in May 2014.  
Mr J complained to TSB that the overdraft lending was irresponsible. TSB said it couldnt 
look specifically at the last lending decision on the overdraft as Mr Js complaint was brought 
too late. But it agreed that on review of how the account was managed from September 
2016 to August 2020 Mr J didnt see a credit balance and as such agreed to: 
Refund all overdraft fees and charges applied for this period amounting to £3,104.76.
As this was enough to repay the overdraft TSB have removed the overdraft facility 
and applied a marker to the account to stop Mr J from applying for further lending.
TSB also waived all pending charges due to be debited from Mr Js account.
TSB say Mr J received a number of large payments into his account from August 2020 which 
were enough to clear the overdraft and that it was his choice to once again utilise the 
overdraft facility and as such it was not willing to refund the charges for this period.
Mr J was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He says the money 
received in and out of his account was for bills through his wifes account.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Js complaint and thought that we couldnt look at the 
lending prior to September 2016 because the complaint was brought too late and that what 
TSB had already done to settle the complaint was in line with what wed recommend when 
there were signs of financial difficulty and didnt think TSB should do anything more.  
Mr J disagreed and has now asked that his complaint be progressed for an ombudsmans 
decision.
Why I cant look into all of this complaint
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
And in this case TSB hasnt agreed. Mr Js complaint was made in September 2022. This is 
more than six years after the last lending decision TSB made on Mr Js overdraft and his 
limit was last increased in May 2014 - which is the event Mr J is complaining about here. To 
be within the six year rule Mr J needed to complain at the latest by May 2020. So I need to 
think about whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mr J should 
reasonably have been aware he had cause to complain. 
When applying this rule Mr J doesnt need to know the specifics of the complaint  just that 
something may have gone wrong. Mr J would have been notified prior to any overdraft 
charges being applied and I think likely wouldve seen from his bank statements the amount 
of time his account was overdrawn. 
So I think it is likely Mr J wouldve known enough around the time he had his last limit 
increased to decide whether his overdraft was affordable and whether the charges were 
keeping him in debt when they were being applied as he says it was the charges for the 
overdraft which contributed to his financial difficulty.
As this was in 2014 and earlier than the six year rule referred to above it means Mr J needed 
to make his complaint about the lending by 2020 (6 years after the event complained about). 
As he didnt complain until September 2022 his complaint is out of time under the rules I 
have to apply and Im unable to look into Mr Js complaint about irresponsible lending and 
the affordability of his overdraft before September 2016. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what TSB has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr J is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
In this case, after reviewing all the information on the account held by Mr J and his overdraft 
usage, I agree that for the period that TSB have refunded overdraft fees and charges for Mr 
J, he didnt see or maintain a credit balance on his account for a significant period of time. 
So it shouldve been clear Mr J was struggling financially and that his overdraft lending 
wasnt sustainable. 
But following this Mr J received a number of credits into his account which paid his overdraft 
off (£10,000 and £4,677 in August 2020 and £7,302 in July 2022). Although some of the 
money received went to pay bills and other debt, my understanding is that Mr J still had 
funds surplus to this and it was his choice to spend this and use his overdraft facility again  
rather than have it removed. I can also see lots of discretionary, non-committed spending on the account and regular 
payments of around £2,000 out of the account which Mr J couldve used to pay down his 
overdraft.
Mr J says that the money received in and out of the account was for bills via his wifes 
account. But there isnt any way of telling from the statements and information TSB had that 
this was the case or that it ought to have known at this point Mr J was in financial difficulty 
rather than perhaps mismanaging his financial affairs. So I dont think that TSB should have 
done more for this period based on the information it had.
TSB has already done what Id expect it to do to put things right prior to August 2020 (when 
there were signs of financial difficulty) by refunding all of the interest, fees and charges 
caused by the overdraft facility. Furthermore, it has now removed the overdraft facility and 
added a marker to his account to stop this type of lending in the future, all of this is in-line 
with what Id recommend.
So it follows that I dont think TSB needs to do anything further here and Im not requiring it 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what TSB Bank plc has already done to put 
things right for Mr J is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and Im unable 
to look into Mr Js complaint about irresponsible lending and the affordability of his overdraft 
before September 2016 because it was brought too late. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman