DRN-4066883
The complaint
Miss K and Mr S have complained about the poor customer service they received from Lifes 
Great Limited trading as Mojo Mortgages during the course of a mortgage application.
To settle the complaint, Miss K and Mr S would like t be compensated for their losses.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Miss K and Mr S being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In late 2021 Miss K and Mr S were re-mortgaging a property and engaged Mojo to arrange a 
mortgage for them.  Their current mortgage deal was coming to an end and they wanted to 
secure a new mortgage product. The property was one in which Miss K and Mr S had 
previously lived, so although it was rented out, it was considered to be a Consumer Buy To 
Let (CBTL) mortgage. 
The first application to a lender was declined due to the type of property construction. As a 
result a fresh application was made to another lender (which I will refer to as TMW) in 
January 2022.
The timeline of what happened during the application, including issues with the legal title and 
TMWs contact with Mr Ss accountant, is set out in Mojos final response letter dated 
18 August 2022. I will therefore not repeat the details here. 
The relevant point is that on 21 March 2023 TMW confirmed that the issues with the legal 
title had been accepted (but it would require the title issue to be resolved at the Land 
Registry), and that the only other outstanding issue was an accountants reference, which 
TMW had requested direct from the accountant in February 2022. 
However, TMW cancelled the application on 22 March 2022, and explained to Mojo that this 
was because the accountants reference  which TMW had requested direct from the 
accountant in February  hadnt been received. 
Although Mojo attempted to appeal this decision, TMW said that a new application would 
need to be submitted. Regrettably Mojo didnt tell Miss K and Mr S of TMWs decision until 
29 April 2022, which is the date when Miss K informed Mojo that the Land Registry title 
issues had been corrected. Ultimately, Miss K and Mr S did not go ahead with arranging 
their new mortgage with Mojo.
Miss K and Mr S complained. In its final response letter Mojo acknowledged that the 
application to the first lender could have been avoided if better enquiries had been made 
about the construction type of the property. 
However, Mojo didnt think it was responsible for TMW cancelling the application. Miss K and 
Mr S had told Mojo that the accountant had never received a request from TMW, but Mojo 
said that this wasnt something within its control. Similarly, the issue with the Land Registry 
title entries was also outside its control.
However, Mojo acknowledged its service could have been better, and offered a goodwill 
payment of £750 in full and final settlement.
Unhappy with Mojos response, Miss K and Mr S brought their complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened. In addition to the £750 compensation, the 
investigator didnt think Mojo had told Miss K and Mr S promptly that TMW had cancelled the 
application on 22 March 2022. 
As a result, he thought that Mojo should reimburse Miss K and Mr S for any additional 
interest theyd had to pay on reverting to their previous lenders Standard Variable Rate 
(SVR) and the interest rate on the new product theyd secured elsewhere, for the period 
between TMW declining the application and Mojo telling Miss K and Mr S about the decline. 
Mojo has clarified (with evidence in support) that this was the period 22 March 2022 to 
29 April 2022 inclusive.
Mojo agreed to do this, but Miss K and Mr S didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman 
to consider the complaint. They consider Mojo to be fully responsible for the failure of the 
application. They say that TMW was clear that it needed the Land Registry issue to be 
resolved, and the accountants reference, and these would have been resolved quickly had 
Mojo communicated TMWs requirements to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mojo has acknowledged it made an error, and because its accepted the 
investigators recommendation to pay compensation I dont need to analyse what happened 
in detail in order to determine if Mojo is at fault. All I need to determine is what should be 
done to put things right.
The crux of the complaint is that TMW cancelled the application due to outstanding 
information not having been received, relating to the legal title to the property and a lack of a 
response to an enquiry it made direct to Mr Ss accountant. That was a decision TMW was 
entitled to make, but Miss K and Mr S say that Mojo failed to make them aware that there 
were outstanding matters; they say if theyd known, theyd have dealt with them immediately.
The available evidence shows that TMW didnt make Mojo aware of the issue relating to the 
accountant until the day before it cancelled the application  21 March 2022. Mojo hadnt 
been told by TMW prior to that date that TMW had requested an accountants certificate. 
I dont know why the accountant didnt receive TMWs email sent in early February 2022  
but thats not something for which I can hold Mojo responsible.
I also note that on 3 March 2022, after TMW had confirmed (on 2 March 2022) that it needed 
the issues with the title resolved and couldnt proceed until the Land Registry had been updated, Miss K and Mr S suggested they would go to another lender which had previously 
provided a mortgage on the property. 
It wasnt until 18 March 2022 that Miss K and Mr S confirmed an application had been made 
to the Land Registry to resolve the title issues. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mojo is responsible for the application being cancelled by 
TMW. That was a decision made by TMW and Mojo had no involvement in that. 
However, Mojo didnt immediately tell Miss K and Mr S that the application had been 
cancelled. They didnt do so until 29 April 2022. I think that Mojo should have let Miss K and 
Mr S know on 22 March 2022, when TMW told Mojo the application was cancelled, so they 
could have started looking for a new mortgage, at the same time as Mojo was trying to 
appeal TMWs decision.
Putting things right
I think the £750 offered for poor customer service is fair and reasonable and Im not ordering 
Mojo to increase this. 
I also agree with the investigator that Mojo should reimburse Miss K and Mr S for the 
difference in SVR and the rate they eventually took out with their new lender, for the period 
22 March 2022 to 29 April 2022 inclusive. Before any payment is made, however, Miss K 
and Mr S will need to provide Mojo with documentary evidence of their actual mortgage 
payment during this period.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I direct Lifes Good Mortgages Limited 
trading as Mojo Mortgages to settle the complaint as directed above. I make no other order 
or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman