DRN-1096680
Complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
July 2002 alongside a credit card. Ms J, who is represented by a third party, says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
           I think BoS made it clear that Ms J didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember. From what Ive seen about 
the card application process, I think Ms J made a decision to take out the policy. Ive seen 
that on her application form a box was already marked with an X to show shed chosen PPI. 
And I think she would have had the opportunity to review her application and discuss it with 
the BoS representative at the meeting before making her decision to buy the policy and then 
sign the application form. 
           I think BoS recommended the PPI to Ms J at a meeting in branch  even though 
Ms J isnt so sure about this. As a recommendation, BoS had to check that the PPI was right 
for her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For 
example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
           Its possible the information BoS gave Ms J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It doesnt look 
as if Ms J was entitled to any benefits from her employer if she couldnt work. If she made a 
successful PPI claim it would pay out in addition to and for longer  up to 12 months - than 
her statutory sick pay. The PPI would also pay out if she lost her job. So she wouldnt have 
to rely on other sources of funding to help out. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive seen Ms J told us about having life and critical illness insurance, as well as private 
health insurance. Whilst these are all useful products, they have a different purpose to PPI, 
so would not necessarily be of assistance to Ms J if she couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. And although Ive thought about the points 
made by those representing Ms J in response to our adjudicators opinion, they dont affect 
my decision. 
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman