DRN-3623378
The complaint
Mr W complains that Vanquis Bank Limited made an error which led to adverse information 
being recorded on his credit file.
What happened
Mr W says that he last used his Vanquis credit card in October 2021, and he paid the 
balance off in November. As far as he was aware there was a balance of £0, however, in 
January, he logged into their application (app) and saw that Vanquis had added £1.65 
interest from cash withdrawals in October, so he made a payment on 9 January 2022. Mr W 
paid another £1.65 the following day as the app said he still needed to make a payment. 
Mr W made a complaint to Vanquis. He said he never received a message/letter/email 
stating there was a minimum payment due and it took Vanquis two and a half months to add 
interest onto the account from October. He asked them to remove the missed payment from 
his credit report as he believes this was due to a technical problem.
Vanquis partially upheld Mr Ws complaint. They said Mr Ws November statement stated 
the outstanding balance was the cash interest of £1.65 and this payment was due on 9 
December 2021. But they never received a payment, therefore a missed payment was 
reported on his credit file. On 6 January 2022, another payment was missed on his due date.
Vanquis noted that Mr W paid twice on 9-10 January 2022, but they said it could take two 
working days to be applied to his account. Vanquis said they were sorry the app didnt 
display any amount due, and they werent aware of an issue like this. But they said his 
statements did state the full balance and when a payment was due. Vanquis explained they 
had a legal obligation to provide regular updates to the credit reference agencies (CRAs), 
with how their customers manage their account. Mr W brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said that Vanquis had sent a text 
message to Mr Ws mobile phone on 4 December 2021, to remind him he had an 
outstanding balance of £1.65 and this needed to be paid by 9 December. As Mr W did not 
make the payment then Vanquis registered the accurate payment status to the CRAs.
Mr W asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that since having an 
account with Vanquis he has never received any communication. He said he never signed a 
contract to say it was a self-managed account. He said he realises that he had to make 
payments on time, but he wasnt told that there was a payment to be made after he had paid 
the full amount off and he hadnt used the card since. He said the error was with Vanquis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr W has said about not signing a contract to say the credit card is a 
self-managed account. But while the credit agreement may not use this exact wording, the 
essence of the credit card agreement is that he would manage the account in terms of his 
credit card use and repayments to the account. As Mr W has agreed he would be 
responsible to make the repayments on time, then Im satisfied both parties are saying the 
same thing, even if they would use different terms to describe this. 
In order to see if Vanquis have acted how they should have done, Ive looked at the credit 
agreement online to see the wording of how they would charge interest, particularly cash 
interest. Section three of the credit agreement shows the costs of the credit. It says the 
following:
Interest is charged on transactions at the relevant interest rate(s) from the date any 
purchase, cash (including money transfers) and/or balance transfer transaction(s) or any 
other amount is debited to your account, until repayment in full. Interest is charged each day 
on the balance on your account at the end of the day and, except in respect of purchase 
transactions where you have paid off two or more consecutive current statement balances in 
full (not just the purchase balance) each month, is debited to your account at the end of each 
statement period. We will add the interest we charge to the outstanding balance on your 
account at the date of each statement. This means that you will generally pay interest on 
interest.
So Im satisfied that Vanquis make it clear that interest would be charged on cash 
transactions from the date it is debited to his account. Im also satisfied that interest is 
charged each day on the balance of Mr Ws account at the end of the day and is debited to 
Mr Ws account at the end of each statement period. This also shows they will add the 
interest they charge to the outstanding balance on his account at the date of each statement. 
So Ive looked if Vanquis have done this. Im persuaded they have and Ill explain why.
Mr Ws November 2021 statement shows that he made cash transactions on 19, 22, 26 
(twice) and 28 (twice) October 2021. From Mr Ws November statement, which displays 
these transactions, I can see that Mr W made a payment of £225 which credited his account 
on 29 October which brought his outstanding balance to £0 and then he made a payment 
which credited his account on 30 October for £174.14 which brought his outstanding balance 
to £0. So I can understand why Mr W thought he had paid off the full amount of his 
statement.
But it appears that Mr W didnt account for the cash interest which would be added at the 
date of the statement. The transactions show that the cash interest was debited from his 
account on 14 November 2021, which was the date shown on his statement. So it was not 
two and a half months after the transactions that this was charged. 
Im satisfied that Vanquis showed on Mr Ws statement that he did owe them £1.65. It would 
be Mr Ws responsibility to check his statement. Ive considered what hes said about not 
receiving a text or correspondence from Vanquis, but the evidence shows he was sent a text 
message from them on 4 December 2021 at 16:08. This message was sent five days prior to 
Mr Ws payment due date. 
The text message is sent to the same mobile number that Mr W provided to our service. The 
message read Your payment reminder for Vanquis account ending (last four digits of the 
account). At 23:59 on 03/12 your outstanding balance was £1.65 and available credit was 
£498.35. If not already paid, please pay at least £1.65 to reach us by 09/12/2021. Please 
remember you can make extra payments at any time, this could help you clear your balance 
quicker and pay less in interest.
So Im satisfied that Vanquis made Mr W aware of the £1.65 outstanding balance by not only 
through his statement, but also through the text message they sent him. But as the payment did not reach Vanquis by the payment due dates of 9 December and then 6 January (his 
following due date), then Vanquis would have a responsibility to report this to the CRAs. 
Mr W has mentioned an error with Vanquiss app. But Vanquis have said they werent aware 
of any error. What Im persuaded has happened here is that when Mr W made the payment 
of £1.65 and he said this didnt show in the app, is because the payment does not show 
straight away and it can take days to reach his account. So as this wasnt showing by the 
following day, Mr W made another payment of £1.65. When both of these payments reached 
his account, this is why he was showing in credit. In the final response Vanquis sent Mr W, 
they confirmed that a payment through the app can take two working days to clear off his 
balance. 
Mr W may wish to consider registering a notice of correction with the CRAs to explain what 
happened during the timeframe in question. This is a short explanatory note that he can add 
to an entry on his credit file, to explain the background to that entry. So anyone who 
searches his credit report would see the notice of correction and take the notice into account 
if they viewed his credit file. Mr W would need to contact the CRAs to do this. But as 
Vanquis have not made an error in how they applied the cash interest to the account, it 
follows I dont require Vanquis to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman