DRN-3808572
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined their claim for storm damage. 
They would like QIC to carry out the repairs.
The home insurance policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mr L 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Following a well-publicised storm, Mr L claimed under his buildings insurance for his broken 
garage roof. QIC sent a field surveyor to assess the damage and the claim was accepted. 
QIC offered a cash settlement, but Mr L didnt think it was enough to cover the cost of 
repairs. He declined the offer and asked QIC to carry out the work.
QIC arranged for a contractor to scope for the work. Two weeks later, Mr L chased an 
update on the claim. QIC said the surveyor was due to review the scope of work and get 
back to him. Around three weeks later, QIC called Mr L to say his claim was declined. QIC 
said its in-house surveyor reassessed the damage using photos taken and identified 
evidence of wear and tear and pre-existing damage. Therefore, it declined the claim saying 
the damage was not consistent with a one-off storm event, and relying on the policy 
exclusion for Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage.
Mr L complained to QIC during the call because he thought QIC had established the true 
cost of the work and was reluctant to pay. QIC sent its final response to Mr L maintaining its 
decision to decline, so he brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the evidence supported QICs 
explanation about the pre-existing damage. And as Mr L hadnt provided evidence to the 
contrary, our investigator said QIC had declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy.
Mr L didnt agree. He said there was no existing damage to his garage roof before the storm 
and he felt QIC declined the claim after he rejected the cash settlement offered because it 
didnt want to pay the true cost of repairs.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr L will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
My role is to decide whether QIC declined the claim fairly, for the reasons it gave and in line 
with the policy. To do so, I must rely on the evidence provided and the balance of probability 
 what is most likely in the circumstances.
Both Mr L and QIC are aware of the three questions considered when looking at complaints 
about storm claims. Theres no dispute that there was a storm or that Mr Ls garage was 
damaged during the storm, so I think theres little benefit in repeating the details here.
The remaining question is:
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
Mr L said the storm caused the damage to his garage roof. QIC said there was pre-existing 
damage, indicating that the storm simply revealed the deterioration and wear and tear.
Ive looked at the photos QIC pointed to in support of its decision. They show the garages 
corrugated roof, likely made of asbestos containing material (ACM), with a broken rear 
corner. Evidence of the piece that broke off isnt available. For context, the roof looks as 
though something hit the corner and broke the piece of roof off. Im not saying that 
happened, its just a way to explain the appearance of the damage.
QIC said the break in the roof shows signs of vegetation, and the exposed timber 
underneath the roof shows signs of long-term water damage. For these reasons, QIC said 
the damage was present before the storm.
Ive looked at the photos and I agree with QIC. There is evidence of a new break  the 
exposed line of the crack is clean, and the timber immediately below appears to be in good 
condition - suggesting these two parts of the roof havent been exposed to the weather 
before. So, I accept that some of the roof broke off in the storm. But the part of the roof 
immediately next to the new crack shows signs of long-term water damage to the timber, 
and the exposed cracked edges of the roof are dirty and covered in vegetation. There is a 
distinct difference between the outer broken corner of the roof and the next part of the break. 
So, Im satisfied that QIC fairly declined the claim because the evidence indicated that the 
roof damage was subsequent to prior long-term damage. 
The policy exclusions confirm that cover isnt available for, Any gradual or maintenance-
related loss or damage. As the evidence shows that some of the damage had started 
happening before the storm, Im satisfied that QIC declined the claim fairly under this policy 
exclusion.
I understand Mr L thinks QIC doesnt want to pay for the true cost of the repair, especially 
because of the presence of ACM. While repairs involving ACM are likely to cost more and 
require a specialised service, I havent seen any evidence to support what Mr L claims. The 
evidence suggests that QIC declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy, so I wouldnt 
be asking it to complete, or pay for, the repairs regardless of the cost.
Ive considered the rest of the issues of Mr Ls complaint, including QICs delays responding 
to him, its decision to accept the claim and offer a cash settlement, and its subsequent 
decision to decline. I can understand that this sequence of events wouldve been frustrating 
to Mr L. However, I havent identified any financial loss caused to him as a result of QICs 
mistakes, or any significant delays or inconvenience. Its not within my remit to punish QIC, 
and I cant see that the shortfalls identified here warrant any compensation.
Overall, Im satisfied that QIC reasonably declined Mr Ls claim in line with the policy 
exclusions, and I havent seen any evidence to suggest that QIC treated him unfairly.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman