DRN-2671132
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Pi Financial Ltd (trading as Money Foundations) gave him 
negligent advice to switch his personal pensions to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
The advice facilitated investment into a high-risk, unregulated product - the Optima 
Worldwide Group (OWG) bond. 
  
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
Legal Partnership (LP) - unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd, trading as Money Foundations (Pi) - regulated financial adviser
Strand Capital Limited (Strand)  stockbroker
James Hay (JH) - SIPP provider
Mr R was approached by LP for a pension review. They introduced him to Pi with whom they 
had an introducer agreement. Theres a letter from Mr R to Pi dated 1 November 2013 which 
said:
I would like to transfer my existing Pension Plan into a new Self Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) Plan. Can you arrange for my current funds from my [pension plans] to be transferred 
into a SIPP with a relevant provider. I do not wish for you to choose the Investment Funds, 
but set up the SIPP investment only as I wish to choose my own investment choice which 
may involve direct investment in Shares.
The adviser replied by letter dated 4 November 2013 which said:
Thank you for your letter of 01st November 2013 to transfer your [Pension Plans] into a new 
Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). I am happy to complete your instructions on the 
transfer. I will not have any input in which funds that your new SIPP will be invested in, will 
only have responsibility for selecting an appropriate SIPP provider and setting up the 
transfer of your funds into the new SIPP.
A file note from Pis adviser says Mr R approached Pi on 15 November 2013 after being 
referred to them by LP. He recorded that whilst the initial letter said Mr R would be making 
his own investment choices, it transpired that LP were giving Mr R investment advice.
During November and December 2013, various documents were completed and signed. 
This included: 
a Client Agreement
a SIPP application form
a Pension Transfer Analysis and fact find which recorded some of Mr Rs personal 
details 
a Knowledge and experience assessment which showed Mr R didnt really have any 
investment experience other than having a pension which he had received advice on.
Pi recommended a SIPP with JH for Mr R and he switched his three existing pensions worth 
around £32k in total into the SIPP. Funds of £30k were subsequently invested through 
Strand into OWG bonds. 
Strand went into liquidation in 2017 and the OWG bonds have since been given a nil value 
by JH.
Mr R made a complaint to Pi in 2019 about the advice he received from them which they 
rejected.  One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended that it should 
be upheld. He didnt think the advice given to Mr R had been suitable and Pi should 
compensate Mr R for his losses.
Pi disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi has submitted detailed submissions which I considered in full. I also considered their 
submissions on similar complaints. However, Ill focus in this decision on what I consider to 
be the key material issues in deciding the fair outcome of this complaint. 
Pis position in summary is that:
Mr R instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider. They only provided 
Mr R with a limited advice service on these specific instructions. Given the limited 
nature of the retainer the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its 
recommendation was suitable.
Pi didnt provide Mr R with advice to switch his SIPP or on the investment in OWG. 
Mr R had already decided what he wanted to do before he approached Pi. 
The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of Strand who was also a 
regulated firm. They are responsible for Mr Rs losses and not Pi who only played a 
very limited role here. 
Mr R was influenced by LP and likely would have moved to a SIPP and into OWG 
even if Pi had not recommended the SIPP.
relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 provides:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Mr R investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable? If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Mr R would have relied on the advice or whether he would have acted the 
same way he did irrespective of Pis advice and 
If Mr R did rely on Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Mr R with 
regulated investment advice. 
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
included:
Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of 
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme. 
(2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
SIPP provider to Mr R. This is also clearly evidenced in the recommendation letter where 
advice and recommendation are mentioned throughout, and it says JH will offer the most 
suitable contract given [Mr Rs] stated objectives.
Im satisfied that recommending a suitable SIPP provider can be considered to be advising 
under Article 53 RAO. Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a 
personal recommendation to Mr R when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the obligations 
in COBS 9 were engaged.
was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer? 
Pi has said they provided a limited advice service in accordance with Mr Rs instructions. Mr 
R had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and he told them he didnt 
require investment advice. Pi says they didnt provide advice on the switch to the SIPP or 
where it would be invested.The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP product only. Having considered this carefully I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA). 
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
recommendation would meet Mr Rs objectives and that he was able to bear any related 
investment risks. I consider the risks of Mr R transferring his existing pensions and the risks 
of his intended investment through the SIPP with these monies were related to the 
establishment of the SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore 
the context of why Mr R wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Mr R was intending 
to do once the SIPP was established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of 
setting up a specific SIPP product, Pi needed to have regard to Mr Rs wider circumstances 
including how his funds were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy 
would be. Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in isolation without considering the whole 
transaction is not reasonably possible.
During the investigation of this complaint Pis adviser provided his testimony. He said he did 
due diligence on Strand once he knew where investments would be placed. However, he did 
not advise Mr R to cancel or discontinue any plans as he had not advised on the 
investments in the first place. Theres no evidence in this particular case whether Pi knew Mr 
R was intending to invest in OWG specifically, however even if they didnt, in order to give 
suitable advice they needed to ask for this information.
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial 
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments 
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for 
customers. The alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension..
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP isnot suitable
And it specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they 
could advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further 
alert in which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the 
overall advice is not suitable. 
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP) 
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of 
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle 
or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments 
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly 
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. 
Pi says the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the adviser 
was the only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. Pi says Strand 
would have given Mr R advice on his investments. However, Mr R opened an account with 
Strand on an execution-only basis and I cant see any evidence that they were intending to 
provide Mr R with investment advice.
They also said LP also had regulated advisers and it was one of them who advised Mr R. 
However, Mr R couldnt remember the individual who advised him from LP and Pi didnt 
provide any evidence who at LP advised Mr R, so it could have been someone regukated or 
unregulated.
In any event, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is 
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt 
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they 
needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were 
intending to do was suitable and in their best interest.  I want to be clear that I consider Pis 
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides 
clarification and sets out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The 
requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall away even if another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP, Pi needed to consider Mr Rs 
wider circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch between 
SIPPs, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the underlying 
investment strategy. 
I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Mr R to only advise on the SIPP wrapper in isolation. 
Pi and Mr R were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty to 
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi to consider the 
wider suitability of Mr Rs intended transactions when recommending a SIPP - whether he requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or 
reasonably when providing their advice to Mr R.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said 
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey 
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a 
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Mr Rs case. 
 
With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was 
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It 
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role 
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS 
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual 
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on 
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of 
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension 
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenhalgh, but it doesnt change my findings either. 
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability 
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9 
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.   
In summary, I consider that when advising Mr R on the suitability of the James Hay SIPP, Pi 
had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction including the pension switch 
and where Mr R intended to invest after the transfer.
did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mr R with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.
Mr R was 49, he was earning £28k per year, had a mortgage and beyond his pension had 
no other investments or recorded savings.
The OWG bond was invested in loan notes which are considered relatively high-risk and are 
not regulated. The bond prospectus (which Pi has provided to us on another complaint) 
confirms this:
The Convertible Redeemable Loan Note is an unregulated investment and the protections 
normally afforded by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 do not apply. Investors 
will not be entitled to compensation under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
I think its evident from the documents Mr R completed that he didnt have the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks of this non-standard investment which 
included illiquidity risks, lack of diversification and potential loss of his retirement funds. Pi 
have also confirmed to this service previously that they consider the OWG bond to be 
unsuitable for retail investors, so I dont think its really in dispute that Mr Rs intended 
investment was unsuitable for him.
Given Mr Rs lack of investment experience, Im also not persuaded he was a credible self-
investor. I cant see any persuasive reasons why Mr R needed to change his pension to a 
SIPP with more investment options.Pi knew - or ought to have known - that the intended investment into OWG was too high risk 
and unsuitable for an inexperienced investor in Mr Rs circumstances. Despite this, they 
recommended a SIPP to facilitate this investment.
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended a SIPP to Mr R. They should have 
explained that his intended investment was too high risk and that given this was a significant 
proportion of his retirement provisions, he couldnt financially bear the risks with his 
retirement funds. 
In my view, Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the 
SIPP which facilitated an investment which was clearly not suitable for him. They didnt pay 
due regard to Mr Rs interests and did not take reasonable steps to ensure that their 
personal recommendation was suitable for Mr R as per their regulatory obligations. 
Therefore I do not consider that Pis actions in their dealings with Mr R were fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
would Mr R have transferred his pension to a SIPP and invested in OWG anyway?
I considered whether Mr R would have proceeded with the transaction regardless of what Pi 
told him. The OWG brochure detailed some of the risks of the investment and if I assume 
that Mr R was given this brochure - which is something I dont know - he might have been 
informed that this was unregulated and high risk. I also considered that LP might have 
influenced Mr R in the background and could have persuaded him to proceed.
However, on balance, I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a professional firm 
recommending him not to proceed would have carried significantly more weight than any 
general wording in application forms or brochures warning the investment was high risk. Mr 
R had no real investment experience so Im not convinced he would have been able to 
properly understand the risks he was taking with his entire pension here. 
The consequences of the loss of the pension were of great significance to Mr Rs overall 
financial position. He didnt have the capacity to bear significant losses to his pension, which 
was a real possibility with the investment in the OWG bond. So I think on balance if Pi, as a 
regulated adviser and independent third party, had clearly explained they couldnt 
recommend the SIPP as the intended investments were not suitable for his circumstances, 
the transaction wasnt in his best interest and he couldnt afford to risk his pension in this 
way, I think he would have decided not to proceed.
Given that Pi should have been aware that there was risk Mr R was being influenced by LP 
and potentially not given full and clear information about what he was about to do, they 
should have established what he had been told and correct any potential misconceptions.
Im not persuaded the evidence suggests Mr R was so strongly motivated to make the 
transaction that he would have decided to press ahead with it against professional expert 
advice. I think if Pi had been given him clear information about how risky the OWG 
investment was and that he could lose a significant amount of money, he would have 
listened.
For the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that Mr R would have more likely than
not followed Pis advice if they had explained the position in full and recommended
against the SIPP and investment with OWG as it was unsuitable for him. In his pension 
transfer analysis he ticked boxes to say he was happy with the performance and charges of 
his existing plans and was happy they were kept with financially secure providers. So I think 
if Pi had recommended against the SIPP and the subsequent investment in OWG, Mr R 
likely would have remained invested where he was.reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4
Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on Strand 
providing a suitable recommendation for Mr R. 
The account Mr R had with Strand was execution-only. So they werent intending to give Mr 
R any advice. 
I also dont consider that COBS 2.4.4. applies here. The rule broadly says where a firm (F1) 
receives an instruction from another regulated firm (F2) to carry out a regulated activity on 
behalf of a client, F1 can rely on assessments or information provided to it by F2. Pi 
suggests in these particular circumstances they were F1 and Stand were F2. However, Pi 
didnt receive any instructions here from these parties. 
There was no need for Pi to assess the investment in encompassing detail. But they needed 
to have sufficient understanding of what Mr R would be invested in. If they had done so, they 
would have known his intended investment in OWG was high risk and unsuitable for him.
So in any event, even if COBS 2.4.4. applied, I cant see how Pi could reasonably rely on 
Strand (or any other third party) providing Mr R with a suitable investment, when they knew 
or ought to have known he was about to invest into an unsuitable product.
oral hearing
I note that Pi thought an oral hearing was required to establish what Mr R would have done if 
he had been given suitable advice. However, Im satisfied I can make a reasonable finding 
based on the circumstances of the complaint and the information provided by both parties.
I cant know for certain if Mr R would have acted differently if Pi had not recommended a 
SIPP and told him that the investment was too high risk. I can only make a finding on what I 
think would have happened on the balance of probabilities. And Im satisfied I can make this 
a fair and reasonable finding based on the information I have and I dont think an oral 
hearing will assist me further.
fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Mr R unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Mr R more 
likely than not would have not transferred his pensions to a SIPP and subsequently not into 
the OWG bonds. Having considered all the evidence and arguments, I consider it fair that Pi 
compensates Mr R for any losses he suffered by transferring into the JH SIPP and investing 
into OWG.
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of 
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to 
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018]. 
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Mr Rs knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. 
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above. 
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP although the intended 
investment was evidently unsuitable for Mr R.  For the reasons I have given earlier in the 
decision, I think Mr R wouldnt have been in the JH SIPP or OWG bond investment at all if Pi had met its obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently he wouldnt have suffered 
the investment losses he did. I therefore consider the losses Mr R suffered from the high-risk 
investment are related to Pis unsuitable advice.
Its possible that Mr R received advice on the OWG bond from a regulated individual at LP. 
However, I can only consider the complaint in front of me which is against Pi. And as 
explained above, Pi could have prevented Mr Rs losses by giving him suitable advice. So I 
think its fair they compensate him for his losses in full. If Pi considers that another partys 
actions have contributed to these losses, they are free to pursue this directly with them after 
having compensated Mr R in full.
OWG might distribute funds to customers at some point, however its unclear if and when 
this will happen. So in the circumstances I think its fair for Pi to compensate Mr R now. Ive 
included ways to ensure Mr R is not overcompensated in the redress below. 
  
Putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mr Rs losses my aim is to put him as close as possible 
into the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice by Pi. 
I think Mr R would have invested differently. I dont know precisely what he would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Rs 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
The investigator pointed out that Pis suitability letter mentions a guaranteed annuity rate 
(GAR) on Mr Rs personal pension plan. No further details were given and it wasnt clear 
which of Mr Rs plans this would apply to. The investigator asked Pi to make an additional 
award for the loss of this GAR if it applied. However, in response to a Subject Access 
Request in 2019 the pension provider who holds information on all Mr Rs previous pensions 
stated that none of his plans contained safeguarded rights (which would include a GAR). So 
overall, I dont think Mr Rs existing pensions did have a GAR attached and so I do not think 
an additional award is warranted. Mr Rs representative was asked whether they agreed with 
this and were given further opportunity to present evidence to the contrary. They agreed to 
proceed assuming there werent any safeguarded rights attached to Mr Rs previous 
personal pensions.
What must Pi do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Pi should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the compensation into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr R wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr R would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr R £ £300 to compensate him for the worry and concern he would have felt 
when he realised he possibly lost all his retirement funds.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
JH SIPPStill 
exists, 
but 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index Date of 
transferDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
I understand Mr Rs OWG investment is illiquid, meaning it cant be readily sold on the 
open market. This means it can be complicated to establish its value. JH has already 
given it a nil value. Pi should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted 
from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Pi is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for
the purpose of calculation. Pi Financial may require that Mr R provides an undertaking to 
pay Pi any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
Mr R possibly received a compensation payment into his SIPP from the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) after the liquidation of Strand. I have seen this on other complaints involving Strand and this would have been to account for a remaining cash 
amount which was held by them. This payment will be included in the actual value, so no 
further adjustment is needed to account for this.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr R paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted capital growth with some risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to compensate Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman