DRN-3330642
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy with the way Amtrust Europe Limited handled her claim on her legal 
expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
My references to Amtrust include its agent.
What happened
Miss R approached Amtrust on 15 December 2020. She wanted to pursue a claim for racial 
discrimination, disability discrimination and constructive dismissal against her employer and 
was looking to make a claim on her LEI policy to facilitate this. She explained at this time 
that she had post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, and anxiety and that she had had a 
recent serious mental health breakdown. She believes that from the word go her claim 
should have been flagged as a vulnerable case and appropriate support should have been 
put in place.
Miss R had already decided which lawyer she wanted to use to pursue her claim. Her lawyer 
wasnt one of Amtrusts panel solicitors - and wanted to charge a rate of £300 per hour which 
was more than Amtrusts standard rate.
When Amtrust declined to pay £300 per hour, Miss Rs lawyers shared with her and Amtrust 
that Amtrust had agreed a rate of £300 per hour for other clients. 
Miss R was concerned that Amtrust may be hoping that by ignoring her pleas for help that 
she would drop her claim. Her solicitors also had concerns about discrimination.
Amtrust agreed to pay the £300 per hour rate on 22 February 2021 after discovering  it 
says in error - that it had agreed to pay the same firm that rate in other cases. 
On 1 March 2021 it authorised the initial tranche of funding. Up until 1 March 2021 Miss R 
continued to chase Amtrust and continued to advise it of the detrimental effects she was 
suffering to her mental, physical, and emotional health.
Miss R complained to Amtrust about its handling of her claim. Miss R said Amtrust 
deliberately ignored her disability and her numerous pleas for help. She said that she was 
subjected to severe mental, emotional, and physical detriment and financial detriment. She 
further said Amtrust took significantly longer to resolve her claim than usual. She thought 
that Amtrust's five days to answer emails policy puts customers at risk of detriment 
(particularly vulnerable customers). She observed that Amtrust only seem to respond quickly 
to emails if there is a suggestion of its wrongdoing. She said no assistance or understanding 
was offered, despite her disability. She said that her emails were ignored despite the huge 
amount of energy, effort and time taken to write and research them. She felt that the advice 
provided by Amtrust between 27 January and 1 March was in no way in her best interests, 
and some of the advice would have put her to further detriment had she accepted it.
Amtrust issued a final response letter. It accepted that it hadnt always met its own standards 
for replying and that the delay caused by the protracted fee negotiations would have caused 
Miss R additional anxiety. It also accepted that given the severity of Miss Rs disability it 
should have considered how any potential delays could exacerbate her condition and it 
should have acknowledged her condition when interacting with her. Amtrust offered to pay 
her £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss R felt that Amtrusts response was design to fob her off; she didnt feel like it was sorry 
at all. She explained that Amtrusts response to her begging for help left her feeling that she 
was of absolutely no consequence, she said she felt completely alone and that the people 
who could help literally didnt care if she lived or died. She felt that Amtrust was able to 
respond when any form of discrimination was alleged but not when she was begging for help 
because of her disabilities.
The investigator issued a view in which he said he didnt uphold the complaint. He did think 
that communication with Miss R could have been better, but he felt the compensation 
Amtrust had offered to pay was fair.
Miss R was unhappy with this view. She said the view was not focussed on her primary point 
of complaint, which was Amtrusts complete lack of regard for, and acknowledgement of, her 
mental health disabilities and the awful effect the dealings and delays with Amtrust were 
having on her mental and physical health in real time. She said Amtrusts treatment of her 
made her feel completely ignored, unheard, desperate and completely unable to cope - 
because it wouldnt even acknowledge her emails regarding the appalling state of her mental 
health at that point, she felt completely bereft and felt that she was just crying into a void.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 20 January 2022. In it I said:
Miss R has provided very detailed information both to this service and to Amtrust. We are an 
informal dispute resolution service and so I will not be responding to every point she has 
made but I have carefully considered everything she has said.
Looking at the timeliness of Amtrusts responses and the points it has taken over fee 
negotiation I think generally they would have been acceptable. But I need to consider 
whether they were good enough in the circumstances of this case with a vulnerable 
consumer; I have considered that below. 
Before I get to that I just want to look at the fee rate Amtrust is currently paying and Miss Rs 
comments about possible discrimination being behind the fee rate that it previously said it 
would pay. I can understand why Miss R feels that there may have been discrimination 
because a higher fee had been agreed for other consumers using her solicitors than was 
being offered to her. I havent seen anything which leads me to believe that there was racial 
or disability discrimination in this case. 
I think it is most likely there was a previous error as Amtrust has said. I am pleased to see 
that Amtrust did agree to pay her solicitor at the rate of £300 per hour after it had been made 
aware that it had done this in the past.
Turning now to how Amtrust handled the case given Miss Rs vulnerability, first I want to say, 
I am very sorry to hear of the distress Miss R has suffered both over the long-term and more 
recently. She has been very open about the challenges she has faced and about the impact 
on her well-being of recent events and I want to thank her for that. The impact has included 
her feeling suicidal, being unable to sleep, persistent fever and cold sweats, stress induced 
hypoglycaemia, Menieres symptoms, and a range of other problem.I have looked carefully at Amtrusts responses to Miss R when she sets out with increasing 
desperation how things are affecting her. An insurer is required to deal with claims promptly 
and fairly. I do not think Amtrusts responses meet this requirement, given Miss Rs 
circumstances, or the standards set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Guidance for 
the fair treatment of vulnerable customers. In particular, I havent seen evidence that 
frontline staff exercised additional care to adapt to the consumers needs and to exercise 
judgement on when it is necessary to do so. I think it would be reasonable to expect that 
Amtrust should have put in place a mechanism  perhaps by referring her to a specialist 
team or colleague - to allow it to handle Miss Rs communication promptly so that action was 
taken to ensure harm does not occur or become more severe. My impression of Amtrusts 
response to Miss R was that it failed to take even basic steps to make her feel that the 
sensitive information she was sharing was going to be acted upon. I think if Amtrust had for 
example thanked her for sharing the information and explained how it would use this 
information to help it manage her case then Miss R would have felt supported at this difficult 
time. Some of its later responses to Miss Rs increasingly desperate emails seem extremely 
cold and unfeeling. 
Amtrust offered Miss R £300 compensation. She has pointed out this equates to one hour of 
her solicitors time. She is, of course, right.  But when we look at compensation for distress 
and inconvenience, we dont compare things in that way instead we look at the awards 
weve made in the past and consider the impact on Miss R. I am satisfied that Miss R found 
Amtrusts failures  as outlined in the above paragraph  extremely distressing. But I dont 
think I can fairly say that all that Miss R suffered after contacting Amtrust is because of 
Amtrusts actions. This was a very stressful time for Miss R; two months prior to contacting 
Amtrust her doctors noted she was extremely distressed and in the months that followed she 
experienced several very challenging issues. I think instead that it is fair to characterise 
Amtrusts failures as making a very bad situation even worse. And this seems to be reflected 
in her medical notes where, for example, it was noted shortly after Amtrust authorised the 
initial tranche of funding that her sleep had improved. Taking all of this into account I think it 
would be fair for Amtrust to pay Miss R 600.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Miss R and Amtrust provided lengthy responses to my provisional decision and both 
did not accept it. 
I have focused on what I consider to be the central issues and summarised them below.
Miss R says she doesnt feel the compensation set out in the provisional decision is a fair 
level of compensation, given what happened and the effects on her mental and physical 
short and longer-term health. She has explained two of the symptoms that arose at this point 
- the frequent low blood sugar episodes and the intermittent fevers - are still ongoing issues. 
She has had to have extensive physical investigations into these factors in May 2021 and 
further neurological investigation in November 2021. Her GP is now looking into referring her 
for neurological investigations to try to understand whats going on.
She feels Amtrust:
provided appalling customer service
failed to flag her in its system as a vulnerable customer from the word go
failed again and again to acknowledge her health disclosures as a vulnerable 
customer or to do anything to mitigate the risk to her of its actions and 
communications despite knowing the effect on her in real time
ignored emails and sent unbelievably cold responses
left her open to the behaviours of her employer for 11 weeksfailed to provide advice that was in her best interest.
She thinks for the complete hell Amtrust put her through and the long-term effects of this 
only £600 seems hugely inadequate. She thinks that the equivalent of two months of her 
wages would be a more appropriate level of award, given all the circumstances. 
Amtrust feels the compensation set out in its final response is fair. It feels it is important to 
note that most claims on legal expenses arise from stressful situations, which impacts the 
day to day life of the claimants. It also recognises that consideration should be given to the 
existing mental health and wellbeing of the claimant. However, whilst it recognises that 
consideration, it cannot act in a manner which would show an advantage to that customer 
over others. It would like me to highlight correspondence which is extremely cold and 
unfeeling.
It says it deals with all correspondence in the order it is received and it is its understanding 
that if it began to seek customer correspondence to respond to sooner simply because they 
have a disability this would not be either a treating customers fairly approach or a 
reasonable adjustment. It says it understands a reasonable adjustment should be made to 
place someone with a disability/protected characteristic at a point of equality, not at an 
advantage over those who do not have a disability/protected characteristic.
It notes I have referred to Miss Rs comments about the investigators view not being 
focussed on the crux of her complaint. It feels its final response letter did deal with Miss Rs 
complaint and thinks it is unfair that I have increased the compensation because Miss R 
thinks the investigator didnt focus on her complaint.
It would like more guidance on assessing the level of compensation and dealing with 
vulnerable consumers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be helpful to explain that this decision is a consideration of the specific factors 
of this complaint. It isnt appropriate for me to give general guidance on our approach here, 
such guidance is available on our website and on the Financial Conduct Authoritys website. 
I also think it would be helpful to explain that our awards are not meant to punish businesses 
they are intended to put consumers in as close a position as possible as if the errors hadnt 
occurred. Because of this what caused or motivated the error isnt necessarily the most 
important factor; we are more concerned about the effect on the consumer.
Both sides agree that errors were made. Both sides agree these errors had a detrimental 
effect on Miss R. Where there is disagreement is on what the errors were  Amtrust thinking 
they were limited and Miss R that they were extensive - and what is fair compensation.
For my part I think Amtrusts biggest failure was that when it learnt at an early stage that 
Miss R was vulnerable it does not appear to have considered what that meant for handling 
the complaint. There is no one way to deal with a vulnerable consumer; the appropriate 
response will depend on the type of business and the specific needs of the consumer. But as 
a bare minimum Miss Rs vulnerability should have been acknowledged and there should 
have been consideration of what steps could be taken to support her. Miss R made clear to 
Amtrust that delays were having a very great adverse effect on her. I appreciate that many 
people claiming on LEI feel this is a very stressful process and find delays stressful. But Miss R  with her existing vulnerability  was clearly more greatly affected. This means for 
example that when some of the points in her emails went unaddressed, she was more badly 
affected. Amtrust therefore needed to be more careful that all her points were addressed. 
They could have handled this by, for example, ensuring her claim was handled by someone 
who was allocated extra time to handle her claim.
Amtrust has asked for examples of cold and unfeeling responses. On 3 February 2021 
Miss R emailed Amtrust and explained how much her mental health had deteriorated. She 
told Amtrust about her very upsetting symptoms and that one of her health care 
professionals was calling for an urgent review across all members of her mental health 
support team to try and ensure that she didnt get any worse. When Amtrust responded it did 
not mention Miss Rs health. No sympathy was expressed by Amtrust nor did there appear 
to be any consideration of how delays could make Miss Rs symptoms worse. I think this 
was cold and unfeeling. 
As I said in my provisional decision: it is fair to characterise Amtrusts failures as making a 
very bad situation even worse. Subsequently Miss Rs medical notes make clear that she 
has faced additional challenges unrelated to Amtrusts errors. I therefore dont think I can 
say with any certainty that the medical issues she is facing now were caused by Amtrusts 
actions. And therefore, I remain of the view that £600 compensation is fair. 
Finally, I want to make it clear that when I mentioned Miss Rs objection to the investigators 
view not being focused on the crux of her complaint I did so to acknowledge her concern. 
Miss R isnt being awarded more compensation because the investigator didnt look at the 
whole of her complaint. She is being awarded more compensation because having looked at 
the whole of the complaint I think a fair and reasonable outcome is that she receives more 
compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Amtrust should pay Miss R £600.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Miss R £600.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman