DRN-3248128
The complaint
Mr B complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) has 
unfairly declined a claim he made under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive provided a summary;
Mr B held a basic time limited pet insurance policy with Red Sands for his pet dog 
that Ill refer to as J.
The policy was incepted in December 2017 and renewed each year.
The policy stipulates that cover is provided for up to 365 days only from the day the 
condition is first noted by you or your vet, up to the amount specified in your policy 
limit.
In October 2019, the vets notes say, when nervous scratches behind ear then rolls 
over a shrieks. The vet confirms under examination mild head tilt Concerns ref 
syringomyelia/neck pain. The vets note also says, discuss imaging  owner says 
only occasional problem and does not want to pursue. 
The clinical signs are still present after this date and in October 2020, the vet notes 
say, still occasionally have episodes  scratching at neck lie on back. The vet also 
reports Ddx: likely chiari-like malformation/syringomyelia. 
Mr B chooses to try medication first, but in May 2021. J was seen by a specialist who 
diagnosed her with Chiari-Like Malformation and Syringomyelia. 
Mr B submits claim for £2,375.58 to cover the fees he paid to get diagnosis.
Red Sands declined the claim as it said it had been over 365 days since J started 
displaying symptoms of the condition. It also noted that the policy covered a 
maximum benefit for £500 per condition (maximum benefit before excesses). 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She was satisfied that J displayed 
symptoms for the condition in October 2019 and as the policy made it clear claims 
were time limited, she agreed Mr Bs claim had been made outside of the 365-day 
window. So, she said Red Sands hadnt treated Mr B unfairly in declining the claim.
Mr B disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the requirements set by the Regulator, which include that 
insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably reject a claim. 
I have considered whether Red Sands dealt with the claim fairly and in line with the policy 
terms, and whether it unreasonably rejected the claim. Having done so, Im not upholding 
this complaint and Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. At the time the policy was taken out and in subsequent 
renewals, the policy stated:
A Time Limited policy offers cover from accidents, illnesses and conditions. Time Limited 
policies mean that your pet will be covered for 365 days after the condition is first noted by 
yourself or your vet. This could mean when symptoms first arose or when an accident 
happened. Once these 365 days have elapsed this illness, injury or condition will no longer 
be covered, and exclusions regarding that illness or injury will then be applied to your policy.
This is further advised under the what is covered section:
Cover is provided for up to 365 days only from the day the condition is first noted by you or 
your vet, up to the amount specified in your policy limit.
So, Im satisfied it was made clear to Mr B that he would have had 365 days to make a claim 
from when the symptoms were first noted, not from when a diagnosis was made.
It follows that the next issue to determine is when the symptoms first occurred. Mr B has said 
that J had an accident that affected her neck whilst she was a puppy and was still with the 
breeder. However, he says she wasnt formally diagnosed until May 2021. Red Sands are 
satisfied that there probably isnt enough on the medical history to say the symptoms were 
occurring until October 2019. 
Ive looked at Js clinical notes to identify when it first occurred. From the evidence I have 
seen, I agree that the symptoms are clearly identified in the examination dated October 
2019. 
Generally, we would expect the 365-day period to start 12 months from when a claim could 
have been made on the policy, for the relevant condition. This is usually when a vet 
recommends some sort of investigation or treatment for clinical signs displayed by a pet. If 
the vet recommends some investigation or treatment but no further action is taken, wed still 
usually say the 12-month period has begun. In this case I can see the vet discussed further 
investigation by way of imaging, but this was declined. Im satisfied the 365-day period 
started at this point. 
I appreciate Mr B has said that the policy was continuous and renewed each year so he 
feels the claim should be covered. But the policy he has chosen to take out isnt lifetime 
cover and so regardless of renewing the policy each year, a time limited policy only covers 
each condition for 12 months. So, Im therefore satisfied that Red Sands has acted fairly, 
and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman