DRN-4363517
The complaint
Mrs F complained that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical (Clerical Medical) 
has caused her significant distress and inconvenience as well as a possible financial loss 
through its poor administration of contributions into her pension scheme over a prolonged 
period. She would like Clerical Medical to rectify these problems and provide compensation 
for her distress and inconvenience and any financial loss she may have incurred.
What happened
I issued my Provisional decision in September 2023, the relevant parts of which are 
reproduced below and forms part of my decision:
Mrs F has a pension policy with Clerical Medical, into which regular contributions are paid 
by her employer. These contributions are partly funded by her employer, and partly by 
personal contributions deducted from her salary.
In February 2021, Mrs Fs employer emailed Clerical Medical to query why a payment had 
been returned to their account rather than being credited to Mrs Fs pension. The employer 
then contacted Clerical Medical again a week later to raise concerns about a lack of 
response and the next pending contribution payment. 
Two letters were issued by Clerical Medical on 27 April 2021 to Mrs F, one stating that her 
premiums had been restarted and another stating no premiums had been received. Clerical 
Medical made Mrs Fs pension paid up on 15 May 2021, as it claimed it had no record of 
payments being made in respect of the policy, which meant her pension plan was effectively 
treated as being inactive. Clerical Medical restarted the policy on 17 June 2021, before 
making it paid up once more on 6 August 2021, again claiming no payments had been 
received.
Mrs Fs policy was subsequently restarted and made paid up twice more before 4 January 
2022 due to her pension payments not being correctly credited to her policy.
Mrs Fs employer rang Clerical Medical on 1 September 2021 to query the ongoing problems 
with Mrs Fs pension contributions being applied to her policy. As a result of this call Mrs Fs 
employer complained to Clerical Medical about the length of time her call was on hold before 
she was able to speak to someone about the situation.
Clerical Medical responded to the employers complaint on 15 September 2021 offering    
Mrs F £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. In the letter, it explained that 
the issue had been caused by an upgrade to the administration system. It said:
A regrettable consequence of this was that teething problems arose resulting in some clients 
being impacted in different ways. In this instance, it was the premiums which was affected, 
which is why we have arrived at this point.
The letter went on to say:
Please be assured our IT department are currently working on resolving the issue which is 
preventing us from applying payments to policies. At this time there is not currently a 
timeframe in which we expect this to be resolved, however, any payments currently in this 
box suspense will be allocated at the date of receipt to ensure there is no financial loss to 
our clients.
On 1 October 2021, Clerical Medical wrote to Mrs Fs employer to confirm that premiums 
had restarted on Mrs Fs policy. It subsequently wrote again on 16 October to advise the 
employer that another payment had been missed. 
Mrs F called Clerical Medical twice in December 2021 querying conflicting information she 
had been sent and chasing a response. On 3 January 2022, Mrs F received a letter from 
Clerical Medical indicating that its records showed total contributions of around £18,500 
being made into her plan between 1 November 2020 and 3 January 2022. Almost £15,000 
was shown as being made in eight transactions on 28 May 2021 and the remainder in two 
transactions on 12 July 2021. 
Mrs F called again on 4 and 5 January 2022 chasing a call back that had been promised, but 
that she had not received. On 7 January 2022, Clerical Medical wrote to Mrs F upholding her 
complaint about the ongoing problems with her pension account and also that she had not 
received the £100 compensation that she had been promised. Clerical Medical increased its 
offer of compensation to £264, with a further £150 for distress and inconvenience added to 
the original £100 and £14 for her time taken to telephone Clerical Medical on five occasions. 
This letter repeated the explanation given in the response to her employers complaint in 
September 2021, that the problems were being caused by a system migration.
Mrs F subsequently received a letter on 24 January 2022, which indicated that almost 
£31,000 had been allocated to her policy between 10 November 2020 and 14 January 2022. 
These payments were spread throughout the period between these two dates.
Further letters on 16 June 2022 and 30 June 2022 showed contribution figures of 
approaching £22,500 for the period between November 2020 to June 2022, with the majority 
of payments being credited to 12 July 2021  13 payments being credited on this date in 
each letter. The last payment on each statement was recorded as being made on 15 
September 2021. Records from Mrs Fs employer showed contributions of almost £9,000 
being made in the period October 2021 to June 2022 which were not reflected in either of 
these statements.
In May 2022, unhappy with the way Clerical Medical had been dealing with her concerns and 
complaints, Mrs F brought her complaint to this service.
A further complaint response was sent to Mrs F on 27 May 2022 which again offered her the 
£264 compensation and repeated the same explanation of why the situation had arisen. It 
also contained incorrect information that the last contribution received had been on 12 July 
2021. 
Throughout this period, both Mrs F and her employer made numerous attempts to contact 
Clerical Medical to try and resolve the situation. Mrs F also had numerous contacts with her 
employer on the same subject. She reported that she found communicating with Clerical 
Medical to be very time consuming and difficult, owing to difficulty in contacting the 
complaints manager dealing with her case who worked part time and lengthy delays getting 
through on the phone. 
Our investigator asked Clerical Medical for its business file on 31 May 2022. After repeated 
requests the file was provided on 13 December 2022. A communication that accompanied 
the file stated:You will see our administration team are still actively working on correcting the premiums on 
[Mrs Fs] pension and we will be in contact with both you and [Mrs F] once we are confident 
that the pension is in the correct financial position in terms of the units being purchased at 
the correct backdated months.
Having reviewed all the evidence, our investigator noted that the issue had still not been 
resolved by March 2023. In view of the prolonged nature of the issue and the effects it has 
had on Mrs F as she approached her planned retirement, the investigator came to the view 
that Clerical Medical should make an award of £1,500 as compensation for Mrs Fs 
considerable distress and inconvenience, as well as resolving the issue by correcting Mrs 
Fs pension records and attributing all affected contributions to the correct time they should 
have been received. She also considered that once the issue has been resolved, Clerical 
Medical should consider awarding a further amount of compensation for any further distress 
and inconvenience it caused Mrs F.
Clerical Medical accepted this view but Mrs F did not. She was concerned that if the 
complaint was resolved in this way, Clerical Medical would have less incentive to work 
quickly to resolve her complaint and allow her to undertake urgent retirement planning. She 
also felt that this approach did not take into account the fund changes she would have 
expected to make as her planned retirement date approached.
The case was then passed to me to review all the evidence and make a final decision.
Before reviewing the evidence, as this is a complaint that has not yet been resolved, I asked 
both parties to provide any further evidence as to the progress made since the investigator 
provided her view.
No further information was provided by Clerical Medical. Mrs F was, however, able to report 
that the situation was still not resolved, despite her MP writing to both the Chair of the DWP 
Select Committee and the Group Chief Executive Officer of Lloyds Bank (which owns 
Scottish Widows, and ultimately, Clerical Medical).
Mrs F was, however, informed that her complaint had been escalated to a specialist 
complaints manager within Lloyds Banking Group. Mrs F was also able to confirm that she 
has been in contact with Clerical Medical on a more frequent basis since the investigator 
wrote her view. 
During this period, it appears that little concrete progress has been made toward a resolution 
of this issue. On 2 May 2023, Mrs F received a letter from Clerical Medical summarising her 
contribution history since the plan started in 2007. This letter once again showed incorrect 
contribution data since October 2020. On 19 May Mrs F was able to speak to the new 
complaints manager handling her case. On 26 May, she received an email from the 
complaints manager which stated:
Our teams are working through the issues on your pension but are facing a few hurdles that 
are taking longer to resolve. 
On 19 June 2023, Mrs F again contacted Clerical Medical to ask if there was any indication 
of how long it would take to resolve her complaint. The following day she received a reply 
which stated:
As the issue is an IT system issue that seems to be causing or caused the problem its hard 
to say until they find a fix there is no specific timescale. It depends what they find whilst 
investigating it. On 10 July 2023, Mrs F received an email saying that:
Things are moving in the right direction and we have applied all your premiums up till April 
2023 
This was, however, followed by a letter a fortnight later which showed all the payments since 
September 2020 being credited to one date  9 March 2023. 
On 31 July 2023, Clerical Medical wrote to Mrs Fs MP in response to his earlier letter. In this 
letter, Clerical Medical admitted that it had not been making correct pension contributions to 
Mrs Fs pension plan, despite having received them. It also stated that this issue was 
affecting some other customers of both Clerical Medical and Scottish Widows. 
It went on to reassure him that Mrs Fs account was now up to date, as all her contributions 
had been correctly applied, and backdated to when they should have been credited.
On 11 August 2023, Mrs F received yet another letter saying that as outstanding 
contributions to her plan had not been received, her pension had once more been made 
paid-up. 
Since issuing my provisional decision, Clerical Medical has still not resolved the issues with 
Mrs Fs pension payments, issuing her another letter on 6th September telling her that her 
pension had been made paid-up once again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I stated:
Overall, I think that it is reasonable to conclude Clerical Medical is responsible for causing a 
significant amount of distress and inconvenience to Mrs F. It is also possible that it has 
caused a financial loss as her pension contributions have not been invested as they should 
have been. She has not been able to manage her pension in the way she and her financial 
adviser had planned as she approaches the date when she could take her benefits.
Mrs F first became aware of this issue in February 2021, over two years ago. The issue itself 
seems to have affected all her pension contributions since October 2020, over two and a half 
years ago. Mrs Fs employer first identified the problem, and raised it with Clerical Medical, 
which leads me to conclude that this error had arisen and gone unnoticed by Clerical 
Medical after it upgraded its administration system. In the time since the issue was identified, 
Clerical Medical appears to have made little or no concrete progress toward resolving the 
issue. It also remains unable to provide any indication of when Mrs F might expect the issue 
to be resolved.
Clerical Medical initially informed Mrs F that the cause of the issue was an upgrade to its 
administration systems, which it states have caused teething issues to a number of clients. I 
find that such fundamental delays over such a prolonged period can in no way be described 
as teething issues, and Clerical Medical must take full responsibility for these problems and 
the impact they have had on Mrs F.
I consider that a delay of over two and a half years in resolving this type of issue would be 
very serious at any time. I find it particularly concerning that Clerical Medical has caused these delays as Mrs F is moving toward her retirement date, making it impossible for her to 
reliably make any decisions about her retirement plans. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Businesses are important to keep in 
my mind here, in particular:
Principle 2 (A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence)
Principle 6 (a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers)
Principle 7 (A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading)
I consider that these principles are relevant to this case and form a key part of the regulatory 
framework that companies such as Clerical Medical operate within. In essence, I have 
considered whether Clerical Medical treated Mrs F fairly by not providing her with a 
resolution of her difficulties over the extended amount of time it has been aware of them.
In these particular circumstances, Mrs F was very specific about what she wanted to 
happen. She wanted her contribution records to be correctly updated as they should have 
been, and a calculation of financial loss used to put her back in the position she would have 
been were it not for Clerical Medicals inability to reconcile her contributions with its records. 
I find that it is reasonable to assume that Clerical Medical ought to have been able to resolve 
these issues in a much shorter timescale to allow Mrs F to move forward with her retirement 
planning. 
With the FCAs principles in mind, I think Clerical Medical has fallen short here and hasnt 
treated Mrs F fairly.
Mrs F believes that she may have suffered a financial loss owing to this situation, arising 
from her inability to take financial advice relating to her forthcoming retirement, given that 
she has no reliable information on the value of her pension. I am not able to cover this 
aspect of her complaint in this decision, as until the issue is resolved it would be impossible 
for Clerical Medical or Mrs F to accurately assess how she may have been impacted.
Consequently, my redress formula below can only take into account the significant amount 
of distress and inconvenience Clerical Medical has caused Mrs F up to this point in time. I 
appreciate Mrs Fs concern that a decision now will not adequately reflect any financial loss 
she may have suffered, but I would like to reassure her that my decision only covers the 
period up to the date of my decision.
If she feels that any compensation subsequently offered to her once Clerical Medical has 
finally resolved the issues with her pension is inadequate, she will be free to raise a 
subsequent complaint with Clerical Medical and bring it to this service if she is unhappy with 
what Clerical Medical proposes. Any further complaint could include elements to reflect 
compensation for any further distress and inconvenience or any financial loss she believes 
she has suffered as a result of Clerical Medicals mistakes.
Given the extremely long period over which this issue has persisted, I would urge Clerical 
Medical to treat this case with the utmost urgency.
I think £1,500 is a fair and reasonable award for the distress and inconvenience Mrs F has 
suffered to date. I say this because Mrs F has had to devote considerable time in pursuing 
her complaint and yet the issue still hasnt been resolved  and Clerical Medical still doesnt 
appear to have got to grips with the system migration that caused the problem in the first 
place. In addition, weve reached the point where Mrs F has  quite reasonably  become 
concerned about the impact this is going to have on her retirement plans. I also note that the parties appear to agree about £1,500 being a fair and reasonable amount and that the 
sticking point is the best way to get Mrs Fs pension fixed. 
I recognise that this doesnt solve the problem for Mrs F. But I dont think an ombudsmans 
decision directing Clerical Medical to put her policy in the position it should always have 
been in will necessarily help Mrs F at this point. From what I can see, Clerical Medical is 
trying to do that  its just that it is incapable of doing so at this point and it hasnt given me 
confidence that it will be sorted imminently. Furthermore, until it has rectified the problems 
with Mrs Fs policy, theres no way of assessing the financial impact Clerical Medicals 
actions have had or the impact its actions have had on Mrs Fs retirement plans. So to break 
the impasse, I think its better at this stage for Clerical Medical to make an award for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused to date, with any financial losses Mrs F may suffer 
compensated for when/if they become apparent  which is most likely to be when Clerical 
Medical finally solves the issues that have been plaguing Mrs Fs policy. Mrs F can complain 
to Clerical Medical at that point if she doesnt think Clerical Medical has put her back in the 
position she should have been in. Or she can complain before then if it doesnt appear as 
though Clerical Medical is making any progress in sorting out her policy.
Both Mrs F and Clerical Medical responded to provisional decision. Clerical Medical 
informed me that it had increased its offer of compensation in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused Mrs F to £2,000. It also indicated that it was willing to consider 
making a payment to Mrs F to have its financial loss calculations reviewed by an 
independent actuary once the issues with her pension have been resolved.
Mrs F indicated that this situation has now existed for almost three years, and that Clerical 
Medical still seems to have made little progress in resolving it. She also reiterated that she is 
now within three months of when she could take her benefits and retire.
Mrs Fs comments also indicated that she is understandably frustrated by this whole 
situation and this services inability to compel Clerical Medical to resolve the problems it has 
caused her.
While I appreciate her frustration, I must first restate that the role of this service is to 
investigate the circumstances of individual complaints, and where it finds that a business has 
done something wrong, to recommend compensation to the complainant back in the position 
they would have been had the mistakes not been made. We can also recognise the distress 
and inconvenience caused to the complainant, and recommend compensation in this 
respect, as appropriate.
Consequently, this service does not have the power to compel Clerical Medical to resolve 
Mrs Fs problems in any particular way. As she rightly notes, the issues relating to her 
pension are still unresolved after almost three years. As these issues remain unresolved, I 
do recognise the significant distress and inconvenience Clerical Medical has caused to her 
over a prolonged period of time. I have to do so based upon the guidance that this service 
issues, and the sum of £1,500 reflects the seriousness of this case. I am pleased to see that 
Clerical Medical has recognised the serious distress it has caused to Mrs F by increasing its 
offer of compensation to £2,000 in this respect.
I also recognise that Mrs F has lost faith in Clerical Medicals ability to resolve these 
problems and asked me to consider instructing Clerical Medical to hand over all of her 
pension benefits to a new provider. This is also not in my power to dictate. Mrs F has always 
had, and continues to have, the right to request that Clerical Medical transfer her pension 
benefits to a new provider. However, as the problems remain unresolved, it would not be 
possible to undertake an accurate assessment of any financial loss she has incurred at this 
point in time. Given this, as it is not possible for Clerical Medical to compensate her for any financial loss she has suffered until these issues are resolved, I cant see that transferring 
her pension away at this time would help provide the clarity she needs for her retirement 
planning.
I realise that this will be of little comfort to Mrs F, but as I mentioned in my provisional 
decision, she is free to complain about Clerical Medical if she is unhappy with the 
compensation it offers her in terms of any financial loss she has incurred or any further 
distress and inconvenience it has caused her once the issues are finally resolved.
Although I have no powers to compel Clerical Medical to resolve the issues that have so 
badly affected Mrs F, I would urge it to address finding a resolution of these issues as a 
highest possible priority.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that this matter will have caused Mrs F considerable distress and inconvenience 
over a prolonged period. I believe that the sum of £2,000 offered by Clerical Medical that is a 
fair and reasonable amount up to the date of this decision, given the circumstances of this 
case.
To compensate Mrs F fairly, Clerical Medical must:
Pay Mrs F the sum of £2,000 in respect of the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused her up to the date of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Scottish 
Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical should fulfil its offer to pay Mrs F the amount 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman