DRN-3225893
The complaint
Mr M complains about the decision by Society of Lloyds (SoL) to turn down his claim for 
the theft of his motorhome under his specialist vehicle policy.
What happened
Mr M held insurance cover for his motorhome with SoL.
Mr M decided to sell his motorhome. On 5 March 2018, he signed a broker sales agreement 
with a dealer (that Ill call S). It was agreed that S would sell the motorhome for £32,000 
and pay this to Mr M within 30 days of the sale being concluded. However, S then sold the 
motorhome for £27,250 and didnt pay any of the sale proceeds to Mr M. Several other 
motorhome owners had a similar experience with S. S then went into liquidation. 
Mr M made a claim under the policy for theft. SoL turned down the claim as it didnt think a 
theft had occurred. It also relied upon an exclusion for deception within the policy. Unhappy 
with this, Mr Ms representative brought a complaint to this service on his behalf. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for SoL to conclude that the claim fell under the deception exclusion.
Mr Ms representative didnt accept our investigators conclusions. The matter has therefore 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy excludes:
Loss of or damage to your vehicle by fraud, trickery or deception e.g. by someone claiming 
to be a buyer, a buying or selling agent, or by you accepting a form of payment which a bank 
or building society will not authorise.
I therefore need to consider whether the loss of Mr Ms motorhome was by fraud, trickery or 
deception. The circumstances of the loss dont need to fall under any of the examples given.
Mr Ms representative has provided an email from the liquidator of Ss business. She says 
she was engaged by Ss director prior to the liquidation, as the director thought they may 
be able to trade their way through the situation. 
I note that the director of S wrote to Mr M on 6 May 2018 to confirm that the sale of his 
motorhome had been finalised, and that payment of £32,000 would be processed on 25 
May 2018 and would be sent to him.
Mr Ms representative thinks this supports that there wasnt an outright intent to deceive on 
Ss directors part when the agreement with Mr M was made. He also thinks S may have 
paid the agreed return price to some customers.
I see that S was investigated by the Insolvency Service, and the director of S signed a 
Disqualification Undertaking. In this, the director of S made it clear that when she 
entered into brokerage agreements between January and May 2018, she knew or ought 
to have known that S was insolvent and unable to pay the agreed return price to 
customers. Also, from May 2017, the director of S entered into similar brokerage 
agreements to Mr Ms, but used customer funds to settle historic liabilities.
The agreement between Mr M and S was that payment of the return price of £32,000 would 
be made to Mr M 30 days after the sale of the motorhome had been concluded. Taking the 
above into account, I think its more likely than not that S knew they wouldnt be able to 
honour this agreement (even if they hoped they may be eventually able to repay Mr M). 
Consequently, I think its fair to say that S deceived Mr M into handing over his motorhome.
Mr Ms representative thinks this service shouldnt rely on the information provided in 
the Disqualification Undertaking document, as this was produced for the purposes of 
the Company Director Disqualification Act 1986.
Given that the document relates to Ss directors knowledge at the time the agreement 
with Mr M was made, I think its appropriate for this service to take it into account. Though 
in any event, I see that the information Ive referred to above that was contained in the 
document was also published in the public domain by the Insolvency Service.
Mr Ms representative has provided this service with an email written by the police. This 
says their assessment of the circumstances was that the director of S hadnt used trickery 
or deception to commit a fraud. They thought she had committed the crime of 
embezzlement, and had initially been charged with this rather than fraud.
Ive also seen a later letter written by the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service 
(COPFS). This says that criminal proceedings had been raised against the director of S, 
and there was sufficient evidence to libel a charge of theft. It also says that at the point the 
vehicles were in the director of Ss possession, there was no evidence of deception.
To be clear, Ive only considered whether it was reasonable for SoL to conclude thered 
been deception based on the relevant insurance exclusion and the ordinary meaning of 
the word. I would assume the police and the COPFS were considering this in the context 
of criminal law, and deciding which charges to raise against the director of S.
Mr Ms representative has referred to some previous decisions issued by my ombudsmen 
colleagues. Some of these say that a strict and literal application of an exclusion has the 
potential to result in unduly harsh outcomes. Mr Ms representative has referred to this as 
the harshness principle, and thinks this should be applied to this case. 
Im not bound by any of my ombudsman colleagues previous decisions, as each case is 
considered on its own merits. I can also confirm that Im required to consider a complaint 
based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Despite my 
sympathy for Mr M and the situation in which he now finds himself, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for SoL to rely upon the exclusion to turn down the claim. 
I recognise that Mr M will be disappointed by this decision. The loss of his motorhome has 
resulted in a significant financial loss for him. However, I think SoLs claims decision was 
fair as I consider it was reasonable for SoL to conclude that the loss of Mr Ms motorhome was by deception.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman