DRN-3914841
The complaint
Miss G complains Santander UK Plc recorded a default on her credit file in relation to her 
overdraft. 
What happened
Miss G had a £2,000 overdraft on her current account. She discovered Santander had 
registered a default on her account in January 2020. 
Miss G complained to Santander. Santander said theyd written to Miss G a number of times 
asking her to make payments to the account but no payments were made and they hadnt 
heard from her, so theyd defaulted the account. They said theyd reported this action, in line 
with their obligations to report account conduct, to the credit reference agencies. 
Miss G wasnt happy with Santanders response. She referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators considered what had happened. He said, in summary, Santander 
had tried to contact Miss G about the account but that as the account was not repaid, 
Santander were entitled to close it and register a default in relation to the overdrawn 
balance. 
Miss G didnt accept the Investigators opinion, as she said she didnt receive any contact 
from Santander and repaid the balance as soon as she could. 
As Miss G didnt agree the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Miss G suffered bereavements around the time of these events. Im 
sorry to hear of her loss in particularly difficult circumstances. I also understand why dealing 
with Santander and the issues of her overdraft would not have been her priority at this time. 
But I dont think that means Santander werent entitled to follow their process and default 
Miss Gs account, for the reasons Ive set out below. 
Under the terms and conditions of Miss Gs account, the overdraft was repayable on 
demand  which meant Santander could ask Miss G to repay part, or all of it, at any time. 
In addition to considering the agreement Miss G had with Santander, Ive also considered 
whether it was fair and reasonable in these particular circumstances for Santander to take 
the actions they did. 
Miss G has explained that she did not use this account regularly  and only paid money into 
it occasionally depending on her income. She explains she had always operated the account 
in this way since opening it. Ive seen statements for Miss Gs account going back to 2015. I 
can see that prior to April 2019, she was crediting her account more regularly and I dont 
think her pattern of use means Santander did something wrong when they asked her to 
make regular payments into the account. 
Santanders records show they sent Miss G several letters. In July 2019, Santander wrote to 
Miss G asking her to make regular payments into her account in order to maintain the 
overdraft facility. Santander wrote again in September 2019 to say if Miss G didnt make a 
payment into the account within ten days of that letter  the overdraft facility would be 
removed. Finally, in December 2019, Santander sent a default notice to Miss G. The default 
notice said Miss G would need to repay the overdrawn balance within 14 days to avoid 
further action. 
Santander has demonstrated with screenshots of their records that these letters were issued 
to Miss Gs registered address. Miss G says she didnt receive any of them and she doesnt 
think its fair that shes being penalised by the adverse information on her credit file when 
she didnt receive the letters. But Santanders obligation was to write to Miss G at her correct 
address, which Im satisfied theyve done. And as Miss G didnt repay the overdrawn 
balance within 14 days of the default notice, Im satisfied Santander were entitled to default 
her account. 
Santander has also provided evidence that they sent text messages to Miss G about her 
account. Miss G provided a copy of some of these messages to us when she submitted her 
complaint. But later said she didnt receive any text messages from Santander before the 
overdraft was removed. And she said she didnt receive any calls or updates in the app from 
Santander about her account. But its clear Miss G did receive some text messages from 
Santander about her account and the letters were issued to the correct address. So Im 
satisfied Santander did what Id expect to get in touch with Miss G regarding her overdraft. 
Miss G believes Santander have recorded her overdraft removal incorrectly as taking place 
in July 2019 because the text messages said shed entered an unarranged overdraft on 24 
July 2019 - when her overdraft limit was still in place - and because of some information 
shes seen on her credit file. 
Santanders records show the overdraft was removed on 3 October 2019. Theyve provided 
evidence that they have not reported any adverse information regarding her account before 
October 2019. So Im satisfied that the overdraft wasnt removed until October and although 
Id agree the text messages give the impression the overdraft was removed in July, Im 
satisfied it wasnt. If Miss G has concerns about how this information is being displayed by 
the different credit reference agencies, she may wish to contact them directly. 
Miss G is also unhappy her account has been described as dormant by Santander and by 
our Investigator. The last time Miss G made a payment into her account was April 2019. So 
by the time Santander sent the default notice Miss G had not credited her account in about 
eight months. I can see that the use of this term has caused confusion since, as Miss G 
points out, she had been using the account. However, it seems this term is being used here 
to mean Miss Gs account was not receiving regular credits. So I dont think this makes a 
difference to Miss Gs complaint. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Santander have treated Miss G fairly. So Im not 
going to require them to remove the default as Miss G asks. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman