DRN-3452480
The complaint
Mr B complains about the poor level of service provided by Royal & Sun Alliance Limited
when he made a claim following a water leak in his home. He wants to be reimbursed for the
cost of a surveyors report he obtained.
What happened
Mr B has buildings and contents insurance for his home with RSA. On 22 August 2020 Mr B
noticed water damage in his kitchen, his hallway and downstairs toilet and on 24 August
2020 he made a claim on his policy.
RSA appointed a buildings expert to visit Mr Bs property to assess the damage. They
confirmed that there was a leak but werent sure of its source. Mr B was told to contact a
leak detection company so they could trace and access it. Hed then need to find a plumber
to repair the leak. He was told hed have to cover the cost of the plumber, but hed be
refunded the trace and access cost.
RSAs engineer told Mr B that his kitchen might need to be removed for drying purposes, as
he had wall to wall tiles with his kitchen units on top of these. And that his downstairs toilet
and sink would also need to be removed.
The leak detection company Mr B instructed attended his property on 4 September 2020 and
identified the source of the leak as a faulty stop tap in a cupboard under his kitchen sink.
Water had been running down the pipe and under the floor tiles in the kitchen. The stop tap
had been installed in July 2017, when Mr B had his kitchen replaced, and the leak started 
some time after that. But its not known when. Mr B found a plumber to repair the leak and
notified RSAs engineers when this was done.
RSA then appointed surveyors and Mr Bs property was inspected on 27 August 2020. Their
report, dated 17 September 2020, said assisted drying would be required in the downstairs
toilet, kitchen, and hallway. A drying specialist inspected the property on 22 September 2020 
and recommended that a tile was uplifted in the kitchen to carry out a drill test to the kitchen
floor, to establish if the floor was saturated under the ceramic tiles. But this wasnt authorised
by RSA until 22 October 2020. RSAs engineers then attended Mr Bs property on 30
October 2020. They confirmed that the floor was saturated beneath the tiles. They also
recommended that the bathroom and hallway tiles be tested for asbestos, which took
another two weeks to authorise.
An asbestos survey was carried out on the tiles on 11 November 2020. At that point RSAs
assessors closed their case, as the claim had been handed back to RSA to manage. A loss
adjuster was then to be instructed to assess whether Mr B should be put in temporary
accommodation while the damage was rectified, or whether he could be provided with a
temporary kitchen pod.
While Mr B was happy with the initial steps taken by RSA, very little happened after the case
was handed back to them. It appears he wasnt told the management of the claim had been
handed back to RSA. He contacted the engineers on 29 December 2020 for an update, and
they told him his claim had been passed to RSAs claims team to handle.
Mr B contacted RSA the following day asking for a call from his Personal Managed Adjuster
(PMA), whod been appointed to handle his claim. This didnt happen, but she did email Mr B
on 21 January 2021. Once again, he requested a call. As he didnt receive one, he called her
on 12 February 2021 and left a message asking her to call him. She didnt call but emailed
Mr B on 19 February to advise him that loss adjusters had been appointed to inspect the
damage.
On 3 March 2021 the loss adjusters prepared a further report which said that Mr Bs floor
was still saturated. Because of the work to be done in his kitchen Mr B confirmed he wanted
a temporary kitchen fitted. He was told that the company whod fitted his kitchen were likely
to be responsible for the leak. And if this could be established, he wouldnt lose his no claims
discount.
Following the loss adjusters visit Mr B emailed the PMA on 11 March 2021 for an update and
she replied on 18 March 2021 advising him that contractors had been appointed in relation
to providing a temporary kitchen pod.
After this Mr B was contacted about the removal of the asbestos from his floor tiles. And on
20 April 2021 RSA told him that his floor no longer needed drying. As this was contrary to
what hed previously been told Mr B instructed independent surveyors to prepare a report.
The cost of the report was £525.
They confirmed that following the stopping of the leak and removal of the floor covering in
the toilet and hall, the floor had largely dried out, although a higher reading taken through the
pre-drilled holes in the ceramic tiling under Mr Bs tumble drier suggested the floor beneath
might still contain more moisture than was ideal. They recommended, in May 2021, that
ideally the property should be left to dry for another four weeks or so, using a de-humidifier
at night and natural ventilation during the daytime.
Mr B says that RSA should cover the cost of this report as due to delays and poor
communication, and the change in the advice about the need for drying hed lost confidence
in what they were saying, and he needed to be satisfied that drying was no longer required.
Mr B complained to RSA and they issued their final response letter in May 2021.
They accepted theyd failed to call Mr B as hed requested, the time taken to respond
to him wasnt acceptable and said feedback had been given to make sure this didnt happen 
again. They also said that the PMA theyd appointed had contacted him to address the
outstanding issues hed raised, and shes apologised for her lack of communication and
assistance.
In relation to the surveyors report fee RSA said their contractor had initially recommended
that his kitchen and floor be removed to assist the drying process. They reattended to
ensure this was still necessary and said it was no longer required. Due to the conflicting
information they referred this to a technical manager to review. As Mr B was concerned
about the change of recommendation, the contractors spoke to him and followed this call up
with a letter explaining the reasons for this. Mr B had since confirmed he was happy for his
claim to proceed, and as they hadnt authorised the report, they were unable to refund the
cost.
But they offered him £500 compensation for the delays, poor communication and
inconvenience the matter had caused him.
Mr B wasnt happy with RSAs response and complained to our service.Our investigator considered the case and said Mr Bs policy says this states an excess of
£50 applies for Trace and Access and theres a further £350 payable where theres been an
Escape of Water. So, she felt the excesses RSA had applied were correct and they didnt
need to refund these to Mr B.
She then considered what Mr B had said about RSA, his No Claims Discount and refunding
his policy excess. She said that as hed made a claim on his policy this impacted his No
Claims Discount and his excess was payable, even though another party might have been
responsible for the leak.
RSA had accepted that the service theyd provided fell below the expected standard and had
offered Mr B £500 to compensate him for this. Our investigator didnt think Mr B had
received good customer service and communication from RSA had been poor throughout his
claim. As a result of this she felt Mr B had lost faith in RSA. She also said that RSA had left it
to contractors to communicate with Mr B, rather than taking control and monitoring progress
themselves.
Our investigator also said thered been delays in the contractors arranging to drill the holes
required to check whether the floors were saturated. Mr B hadnt been kept updated about
this or the status of the tests to see if his tiles contained asbestos. She didnt think RSA had
properly monitored the claim or updated Mr B as they should have done.
Mr B works in a factory and hes told us that he received calls from engineers and
contractors at work. This meant he had to stop work and leave the factory floor to answer the
calls. And he had to take time off work to accommodate visits from the engineers. Our
investigator said this was inconvenient and would have happened less if RSA had planned
things better. And she accepted that how the claim had been dealt with had been distressing
for Mr B and his wife.
Our investigator considered the explanation RSA provided to Mr B when he was told the
drying process was no longer required. She didnt think their initial communication really
explained why the drying process was no longer necessary. But she said they then
contacted Mr B again providing a more detailed response, which his independent surveyor
agreed with. Because this further explanation had been provided, she felt it was Mr Bs
choice to obtain his own report, and RSA shouldnt be required to cover the cost.
But our investigator felt that the way the claim had been handled, and the poor customer 
service Mr B had received had caused him considerable distress and inconvenience. And
the £500 RSA had offered wasnt enough to compensate him for this. So she recommended
the compensation be increased to £650.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion as he says the service he received from RSA
was so bad he couldnt trust what they said.
The case then came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 8 April 2022. 
And I said the following: -
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B wasnt happy with the excess that RSA charged him when he made his claim. He made
a claim for a water leak and looking at his policy this clearly states, in Section 1 Buildings
Cover, that theres a policy excess of £50 and a further £350 for an escape of water. So I
think the excess he was charged was correct. And Mr B has said that hes happy RSA aregoing to offset this against the invoice he paid for Trace and Access. Hes confirmed that
hes been reimbursed the £10 difference between the invoice and his policy excess.
Mr B had a No Claims Discount of seven years applied to his policy premium. Hes not
happy about this being impacted by his claim, as hes been told that the company that fitted
his kitchen are likely to be responsible for the leak. While I appreciate that Mr B didnt cause
the leak, hes made a claim under his policy, so this is going to have an impact on his No
Claims Discount.
RSA have accepted that the service they provided to Mr B fell below the standard theyd
expect and offered him £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered.
I need to consider whether this offer is enough.
Mr B noticed the leak and contacted RSA to make a claim on 24 August 2020. A surveyors
visit was arranged, and they visited Mr Bs property on 27 August 2020. The surveyor
couldnt locate the source of the leak and told Mr B to contact a trace and access service,
and as he had cover under his policy, hed be refunded the costs. Mr B has said he was
annoyed at having to arrange this himself, as he wasnt sure what service he required, and
the guide price hed been given was far less than the prices he was quoted. But he found a
leak detection company and they attended his property on 4 September 2020.
The leak was located, and he arranged for a plumber to fix it. He uploaded the trace and
access invoice, but it was a considerable time before RSA agreed to offset this against his
policy excess.
A drying company attended the property and carried out a survey on 22 September 2020,
but it wasnt until late October 2020 that they received the permission they needed to drill
holes in the kitchen floor to complete a damp test. They delay here was around five weeks
and Mr B had to chase before anything was done. Mr B was told that his floors were
saturated.
After the asbestos survey was carried out in November 2020 Mr B heard nothing. And he
wasnt told management of the claim had been passed back to RSA. Through January and
February 2021 Mr B made many attempts to contact RSA and speak to them about his
claim. His calls werent returned, and it wasnt until 19 February 2021 that he received an
email saying loss adjusters had been appointed.
On 1 March 2021 the loss adjusters carried out an inspection and Mr B was told his floors
were still saturated and needed drying. Mr B has said hed tried to rearrange the
appointment due to work commitments, but this wasnt possible as he was unable to contact
the loss adjusters, despite trying to call numerous times. This caused him some difficulties at
work. And as RSA had been so slow in replying to him, he saw no point in contacting them,
as the appointment was only a couple of days away.
There were further delays until 18 March 2021 when RSA told Mr B theyd arranged for
contractors to remove the tiles from the downstairs toilet. But this was delayed as the
contractors couldnt remove the sink and toilet, and RSA hadnt arranged for this to be done.
So seven months on from making his claim Mr B felt thered been little progress.
In April 2021 Mr B says he was waiting to hear how his kitchen floor was going to be
removed to facilitate drying, as there were concerns about how this could be done safely,
given that thered been asbestos in the property. Hed packed up belongings from his lounge
and kitchen cupboards in readiness for the kitchen being removed.
He chased RSA on 18 April 2021 for an update and the following day received a very brief
email saying the kitchen didnt need to be removed and drying could be carried out from theexposed floor.
Mr B says he was very confused by this as one minute the drying company were saying they
needed to remove his kitchen, otherwise hed have problems with trapped moisture in the
floor. And then suddenly this wasnt necessary. And RSA didnt explain why this was no
longer required when only a few weeks earlier hed been told the floors were still saturated.
I agree with Mr B that this communication from RSA was completely inadequate. And simply
added to their very poor handling of his claim.
RSA contacted Mr B again on 21 April 2021 saying: -
I have received further clarification that there is no drying is required as the
levels have naturally returned to acceptable levels in the walls and the floors are just above
the acceptable level but are expected to stabilise further without any mechanical
intervention. Youll be issued a handover certificate and this will include a disclaimer re
the kitchen as it was not removed. We do not expect any damage to become apparent but if
anything changes please do not hesitate to contact me.
I have approved the costs for the building works and the local builder will be in contact to 
arrange a start date.
Mr B replied saying he was happy that the kitchen didnt need to be removed but he needed
to understand why. As he was concerned about building works going ahead if his kitchen
floor was still saturated. RSA arranged for the drying company to speak to Mr B to explain
why they no longer felt drying was required.
Had his claim progressed without any difficulties or delays, I think Mr B would have accepted
that given the time that had elapsed since the leak was repaired, drying was no longer
required. But given how his claim had been handled he was concerned about problems
going forward if building works were completed over a saturated floor. So he obtained his
own surveyors report.
Essentially the report Mr B obtained agreed that over time the property had naturally dried
out, but said that ideally it should be allowed to dry-out for another four weeks or so, using a
de-humidifier at night and natural ventilation during the day. Which should further reduce the 
moisture levels before the floor coverings and fittings in the toilet were replaced.
I understand that given how his claim had been handled Mr B wanted reassurance that what
he was being told by RSA about the moisture levels in the floor was correct. By the time Mr
B was told drying was no longer required he says hed lost all faith in RSA. So I dont think it
was unreasonable for him to obtain his own report. And given all hes told us about how his
claim was handled I think its reasonable for RSA to contribute 50% towards the cost of the
surveyors report.
I dont think the £500 RSA have offered is sufficient compensation for the distress and
inconvenience Mr B has suffered. Very little progress was made with his claim for weeks at a
time, he had to constantly chase RSA and their contractors for information, and
communication from RSA was very poor, which resulted in Mr B losing all faith in the
information they provided. And Mr Bs working life and home life were disrupted far more
than should have been necessary and for far longer than they should have been.
So I think the appropriate level of compensation is £750, inclusive of the £500 RSA have
already offered.So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Bs complaint.
Since I issued by provisional decision RSA have told us that they accept my findings. And Mr 
B has said that hes prepared to accept what Ive said and draw a line under the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to review my 
findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Bs complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited.
And to put things right I require them to do the following: -
Pay Mr B £262.50 being 50% of his surveyors fee.
Pay Mr B £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced as
a result of their poor handling of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman