DRN-3385287
The complaint
Mr M complains about Barclays Bank UK Plcs decision to close his accounts.
What happened
Mr M had three accounts with Barclays, who wrote to Mr M and informed him that they were 
closing his accounts due to him having a correspondence address which is overseas based. 
Mr Ms concern was his main current account as he was receiving a pension into the 
account and he had direct debits on the account which he needed to pay. 
Mr M says while Barclays have had an overseas current account for him since 2017, he is a 
British citizen with no financial commitments outside of the UK. Mr M says that Barclays told 
him they would only consider keeping his accounts open if he could provide them evidence 
of a permanent UK address. He says he was told that he needed to provide either a 
mortgage/rental agreement, council tax or utility bill. As Mr M says he is living with friends, 
he was unable to provide a form of identification which was acceptable to Barclays. 
Mr M managed to open a bank account with a third party provider, but he had to pay notary 
costs and incurred roaming costs in order to set up the third party account. Mr M says the 
costs totalled over £141 and Barclays should pay these costs due to them not allowing him 
to keep his account open. He also says Barclays should pay him compensation due to the 
distress and inconvenience they put him through. Mr M complained to Barclays.
Barclays did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said that they were unable to reverse the 
decision to close his accounts. They explained their decision was linked to the UK leaving 
the European Economic Area and their decision to apply limitations to the banking services 
they provide for customers with an address in this area. In relation to refunding Mr M costs, 
Barclays said that they cant be held responsible for the costs as they had provided Mr M 
several ways to contact them and it was his own choice to ring them and his own choice to 
open a UK bank account with a third party. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. He also complained about how Barclays handled 
his complaint. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. She said that Mr Ms terms and 
conditions show that Barclays could close the account as long as they gave Mr M as least 
two months notice.
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points for 
consideration. In summary, he said he didnt receive any letters through the post informing 
him of their decision to close his account, the first notification he received was via Barclays 
online portal on 12 February 2021. He said given that he does all of his banking online, it 
would not seem reasonable for Barclays to post anything to him. Mr M said that when he 
called Barclays to discuss his address, they told him they would need evidence of a UK 
address in the form of a mortgage/rental agreement, a utility bill or a council tax bill. As he 
lives with his friends in the UK, he was unable to provide such identification.
Mr M added that Barclays gave him no help or advice with what would happen to his 
commitments if they closed his account, they couldve at least suggested another bank and 
helped him switch his account to another bank, but they did nothing. He said Barclays 
decision to close his account caused him some financial hardship as he had to provide 
certain certified documents to his new bank account provider which incurred him costs. Mr M 
sent us a link to Barclays website. One of his screenshots shows that the UK address he 
gives Barclays cant be an address of a friend and a separate screenshot shows that 
Barclays do need proof of address when opening an account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr M that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Barclays have investigated his 
complaint, such as how they communicated with him about his complaint dont come under 
my powers to consider.
Id also like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer 
for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr M from the outset that Im unable to tell Barclays how to manage their procedures 
when they make a commercial decision to close an account down.
But I have looked to see if Barclays followed their terms and conditions when they decided to 
close Mr Ms accounts. The terms and conditions are very clear that "We can close an 
account (and stop providing any services and end this agreement) by giving you at least two 
months' notice. Any benefit or service linked to your account will stop at the same time". 
Here, Barclays gave Mr M more than two months notice. 
Ive read what Mr M has said about not receiving the letters Barclays sent him regarding the 
closure of his accounts. While I can see the letters Barclays say they sent him display Mr 
Ms registered address, Mr M was aware of Barclays decision in February 2021. So he had 
over three months notice from when he was aware, before Barclays would close his account. 
So Barclays did act in line with their terms and conditions here, when notifying him they 
would be closing his accounts. 
Mr M has questioned why Barclays had sent him letters when he does everything online. But 
Barclays are required by the regulator to send certain documents by post. Im satisfied that a 
notice to close down an account would be one of these requirements. But regardless, Im 
pleased to see that Barclays did inform Mr M of the notice of closure via a separate channel 
as well as by post.
So although Barclays were entitled to close the accounts under the terms and conditions, 
Ive then considered what happened when Mr M tried to keep his accounts opened. Mr M 
has described a number of webchats and phone calls which hes had with Barclays and what 
he was told here. I asked Barclays if they could locate any of these phone calls or webchats, 
but they were unable to provide me with any. They had searched for Mr Ms telephone 
number, but this didnt show any results of any calls in the timeframe requested. Barclays 
said that the call over the third party application Mr M spoke to them on would show as an 
anonymous number, so it would be impossible for them to trace this call. I asked Mr M if he tried to ring Barclays from a different telephone number. Mr M said that it 
was very difficult to remember everything beyond the information that he had sent us. So 
while it would have been useful to listen to what was discussed on the calls Mr M had with 
Barclays and to read the full webchat exchanges, Im unable to rely on this here. But I 
assure Mr M I have read the messages to Barclays which he was able to provide to us. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that Mr M was asked for identification to show 
proof of a UK address for him. I have no reason to believe that Mr M wasnt told he would 
need to provide a mortgage/rental agreement, a council tax bill or utility bills. And I 
understand why Mr M wasnt able to provide these documents as he was living with his 
friends, so none of these things would have been available to him here.
I can sympathise with Mr Ms situation here, especially as he says that Barclays didnt ask 
him to provide proof of address identification when he moved address on a previous 
occasion. But as I mentioned earlier, Im unable to tell Barclays how to run their procedures. 
There may be a number of reasons, such as updated anti money laundering changes, as to 
why Barclays require certain documentation, or why they may have changed their business 
practices in requesting proof of a UK address here in this specific circumstance. But Mr M 
was unable to satisfy the requirements here. Mr M also sent us a screenshot which shows 
the address cant be an address of a friend. As Mr M was trying to change his address to a 
friends account, then I cant say Barclays have done anything wrong here by not allowing 
him to change his address to a friends address. 
I can understand Barclays decision came as a shock to Mr M. Ive read what hes said about 
his loyalty to Barclays for a number of decades. I understand what hes said about being a 
UK citizen and he has no financial commitments outside of the UK. Ive also read how his 
pension was paid into his account and his direct debits were being paid from this account. 
So I know Mr M was feeling under a lot of stress with what could happen if he wasnt able to 
change his account. But here, I can only look at what did happen as opposed to what could 
have happened.
So Ive considered what Mr M has said about the financial hardship this put him through and 
the costs he incurred by opening a third party bank account. But I cant ask Barclays to pay 
the costs he incurred. I say this as there may have been other providers which may not have 
required the documents that his new banking provider required and therefore, Mr M may not 
have been required to pay certain costs such as notary fees with another provider. 
But even if there werent any alternatives to the account Mr M opened with the third party, 
Barclays arent responsible for other banks identification requirements to open new accounts 
or any costs associated with Mr M opening a new account. In terms of communications with 
Barclays, they did offer him alternatives to how he could contact them, so I cant say they 
should pay any roaming charges Mr M incurred by speaking to them on the phone, when Mr 
M chose this method of communication and if Mr M incurred roaming call costs with his new 
banking provider, this was Mr Ms choice to communicate with them in this way.
Finally, Ive then considered what Mr M has said about Barclays offering him no help to open 
a new account with another provider. But I wouldnt expect Barclays to be able to help him 
choose a new bank account with a third party. I say this as they wouldnt be aware of the 
terms and conditions with another provider, so they wouldnt be best placed to help find an 
alternative account which they have no control over. So it follows I dont require Barclays to 
do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman