DRN-3569281
The complaint
Ms C complains in her capacity as Director of 2 (a limited company) that Fairmead 
Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly declined a claim for damage to underground pipes.
All references to Fairmead in this decision include its appointed agents and all references to 
Ms C include her representative.
What happened
In March 2020, Ms C made a claim on behalf of company 2 after some issues were 
discovered with the underground pipes at her property. 
Ms C made a claim to Fairmead and the claim was declined on the basis that the damage 
hadnt been caused by a single event, but had happened over time. 
Ms C disagreed and made a complaint. Fairmead said in its response that the policy covered 
accidental damage to underground drains, but that in this case there had been no incident 
that had given rise to a claim because the water services at the property were functioning 
normally. It also said the issues regarding the drains were due to poor installation and were 
likely a result of deterioration over time.
Unhappy with Fairmeads response, Ms C referred her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint but ultimately did not think it should be upheld. He said 
he wasnt of the view that sudden and unexpected damage had occurred, as required by the 
policy. So he didnt think Fairmead had declined the claim unfairly.
Because Ms C didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now come 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, so Im afraid Im 
not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy provides cover for accidental damage to underground pipes and it defines 
Accidental Damage as Sudden, unexpected and visible damage which is not inevitable 
and has not been caused on purpose. 
Ive looked carefully at the reports provided to determine whether Fairmead has declined the 
claim fairly. Whilst Ms C has said theres good evidence to show that sudden ground 
movement caused damage to the drains, Im afraid I dont agree.
The available reports refer to missing parts of pipework, small bore waste pipes discharging 
through the walls of a manhole, and pipes not connected as they should be.
Whilst one of the reports suggests the damage may be due to outside forces such as 
movement, this only suggests it is a possibility and this has not been confirmed. I agree with 
our investigator that the majority of that report relates to design and workmanship issues.
A further report suggests it is likely there has been some differential movement in the 
subsoil causing the damage. However, it gives no reasons for drawing this conclusion and 
this isnt enough to persuade me that the damage was sudden and unexpected.
I appreciate why Ms C feels the damage should be covered. She has mentioned that the 
drain survey in this case revealed that ground movement had caused the drains to fracture 
and become displaced. But Ive carefully considered the drain survey report and it does not 
provide any reasoning for reaching the conclusion that movement in subsoil caused 
accidental damage to the drains, nor does it indicate that the damage to the drains was 
sudden. It also says the damage may be down to outside forces such as movement, but 
this is not enough to persuade me that there was indeed ground movement which resulted in 
sudden damage. 
For the reasons given, I cant say based on the available evidence that the policy provides 
cover in this case, so I dont consider Fairmead has declined the claim unfairly.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision on behalf of 2 before 10 September 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman