DRN-1382216
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Tesco Underwriting Limited handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants compensation for the stress and anxiety he experienced.
What happened
Mr C said another driver ran into the back of his car. He reported the claim to Tesco and 
explained that he couldnt afford to pay his £400 policy excess. He wanted the other insurer 
to accept liability so that his excess would be recovered or waived before repairs were 
made. Mr C was unhappy that Tesco shared dashcam footage with the other insurer without 
his permission. He thought Tescos agent had been rude to him and Tesco hadnt given him 
correct information about his excess and liability. He wanted compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused and an apology from Tesco.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Tesco 
hadnt misled Mr C or unfairly raised his expectations. She didnt think the agent had been 
rude. She thought is was reasonable for Tesco to share the dashcam footage to try and get 
an admission of liability. 
Mr C replied that hed been stressed by Tescos agent saying that he shouldnt have 
selected a £400 excess if he couldnt afford it. He said Tesco didnt make the claims process 
clear at the start. He said Tesco hadnt returned calls to him. He thought Tesco should offer 
him compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr C is adamant that the other driver was at fault and he wanted Tesco to 
pursue his claim. I can understand that dealing with a claim is stressful, on top of the actual 
incident itself and having to sort out repairs. I was sorry to hear that Mr C felt stressed and 
anxious. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr C said Tesco misled him about the claims process, liability and his excess. Ive listened 
to the call Mr C made to Tesco to report the accident. He said there was slight damage to his 
car. He also said the other driver had later denied any involvement, but Mr C had dashcam 
footage. Tescos agent explained that the excess was payable if repairs were made but it 
could be recovered if the other insurer admitted liability. The agent said this could take some 
time. So I think Tesco reasonably explained the process of establishing liability and 
managed Mr Cs expectations that this could take some time.  
Mr C said he didnt want a hire car in case the other insurer didnt admit liability and he 
would be left with the charges. He said he wanted to wait until liability was established 
before he took his car for repairs. So I think Mr C understood that there was a risk that 
liability wouldnt be accepted by the other insurer. 
About six weeks later, Mr C called Tesco again. The agent explained that the other driver 
hadnt made a claim, so his insurer hadnt accepted liability. And, because Mr C hadnt had 
his car repaired, and paid his excess, then Tesco had no losses to recover and so couldnt 
pursue the claim. Mr C said a local garage had said repairs would cost about £150, which 
was less than his policy excess. So Tesco explained that Mr C wouldnt have a valid claim in 
any case. Mr C then withdrew his claim and it was closed. 
I can see from its file that Tesco pursued the other drivers insurer to get it to admit liability. It 
sent on the dashcam footage as evidence of the incident. So I cant say that that was 
unreasonable. It also sent on a photo of the cars damage that Mr C sent in. But the other 
insurer wouldnt accept liability.
So I think Tesco reasonably pursued the claim on Mr Cs behalf. It offered to arrange and 
make his repairs, which is what his policy covers. And it reasonably tried to get an admission 
of liability from the other insurer so that Mr Cs policy excess could be waived. I dont think 
Tesco misled or misinformed Mr C about this. 
I think Tescos agent mis-spoke when she told Mr C that he shouldnt have selected an 
excess he couldnt afford. But she then apologised when she understood that Mr C felt 
offended by her words and she raised this complaint with her manager. I think that was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances as she acknowledged her mistake and took steps to 
remedy it immediately. So I dont think compensation is warranted.
Mr C said Tesco didnt return his calls. But I can see from its file that it did try to call him 
back or text him in response to his calls, albeit not immediately. So I think that was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr C has told us of other concerns that hes had with Tesco after the claim was closed and 
after a second accident. But, as our investigator has explained, he must raise these with 
Tesco first to give it a chance to respond before he brings them to us.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman