DRN-3035267
The complaint
Mr F, through a claims management company, (CMC) has complained that Scottish Widows 
Limited (SW) didnt warn him of the risks involved in transferring his pension which 
consequently led to him being a victim of a pension liberation scheme.
What happened
Mr F has said he was approached in December 2012 by a firm of unregulated advisers via a 
cold call. He says he was told he could get more growth if he transferred his pension away 
from SW. He was also told that he could take a lump sum from his pension, interest and tax 
free (this was described to him as a loan which he wouldnt have to pay back) and invest the 
rest. He was assured the investments were low to medium risk but they would perform better 
than his existing pension. 
The transfer was completed on 15 February 2013 and the pension was transferred to the 5G 
Futures Pension Scheme (the scheme).
In May 2013 The Pension Regulator (TPR) appointed a firm as independent trustees of the 
scheme giving it control of trustee powers and duties in relation to the scheme to the 
exclusion of the previous trustees. And a few years later TPR confirmed the scheme was 
being used as a vehicle for pension liberation.
Mr Fs CMC has complained that as a regulated business SW ought to have identified that 
Mr Fs pension transfer request carried a number of serious warning signs:
There was the involvement of unregulated introducers and advisers.
Mr F was cold called.
Mr F didnt receive any regulated advice.
Scheme was registered in 2008 and then re-registered on 24 January 2013 shortly         
            before Mr F signed the transfer form.
The scheme was purported to be an occupational scheme so SW should have found 
out details of the sponsoring employer.
Mr F was told he could access a lump sum but he was under 55.
It stated that SW should have followed the scorpion action pack that was released on 14 
February 2013. Although this was one day before the transfer was completed by SW the 
CMC feels SW would have had prior sight of this guidance and as it effectively codified pre-
existing duties SW failed in its duty by not following it. 
In response, SW explained it had carried out all the checks that it was required to do at that 
point in time and that due to the action pack being released one day before the transfer was 
processed it hadnt had enough time to implement any of its recommendations. It also 
confirmed that while issues with the scheme subsequently came to light, at the time of the 
transfer it had no knowledge of these issues and had no reason to question transfer request.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who didnt uphold it. He was of the 
view that due to the transfer taking place one day after the action pack came into force it isnt 
unreasonable that SW didnt utilise it.
On behalf of Mr F the CMC disagreed with the assessment.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. Having done so, I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld.
Before I explain my reasoning, it will be useful to set out the environment SW was operating 
in at the time with regards to transfer requests and pension liberation as well as any rules 
and guidance that were in place. Specifically, its worth noting the following:
The Pension Schemes Act 1993 gives a member of a personal pension scheme the 
right to transfer the cash equivalent value of their accrued benefits to another 
personal or occupational pension scheme.
Personal pension providers, like SW, are regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the FCA). Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs 
predecessor, the Financial Services Authority (FSA). There has never been any 
FSA/FCA rules that specify the checks providers need to do before someone can 
transfer from a personal pension.
Prior to February 2013, and the launch of the scorpion campaign, personal pension 
providers often just checked that the receiving scheme was registered with HMRC 
and would only investigate further if it was apparent that the transfer was, in some 
way, suspicious. However, ahead of the scorpion campaign, its evident the FSA, and 
other regulatory bodies such as TPR, were becoming increasingly concerned about 
the dangers of pension liberation schemes:
- On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the dangers of 
pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to 
schemes that invest money overseas (such as in property) to avoid paying UK tax 
and/or result in cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as 
a loan. Particular concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, the 
fees charged and potential investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was 
working closely with HMRC and TPR to find out more information and encouraged 
affected consumers to contact FSA, HMRC or TPR helplines.
- TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and 
had closed some schemes.
- In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation. 
The FSA supported this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about 
pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for transferring schemes to follow. 
The warnings highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold-callers that 
encouraged people to transfer in order to receive cash or access a loan.TPR guidance
TPR launched its scorpion campaign on 14 February 2013. The aim of the campaign was to 
raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance on dealing with 
transfer requests in order to prevent liberation activity happening. Several bodies including 
the FSA supported this initiative, so Im satisfied it was relevant to personal pension 
providers such as SW.
The campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs present in a 
number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being transferred 
overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and pressure to 
complete a transfer quickly.
It suggested transferring schemes should look out for these issues, as well as receiving 
occupational schemes that were newly registered or were suddenly involved in multiple 
transfer requests. If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist 
schemes could use. This checklist suggested asking the member for copies of promotional 
materials, emails or letters about the scheme and asking for any further details about how 
they became aware of the receiving scheme and how it had been described to them. If those 
enquiries established the member had been advised, it went on to suggest checking whether 
the adviser had been registered with the FSA. Where transferring schemes had concerns, 
they were encouraged to consider delaying the transfer and to seek legal advice.
The scorpion campaign also included:
A Pensions Advisory Service insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was 
requested. The insert warns about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives, 
cold calling, being put under pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences 
of accessing pensions early.
A Pensions Advisory Service leaflet which gives more information, including real life 
examples, about pension liberation.
FCA/FSAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN)
The FCA Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to when carrying out 
business; and firms must always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance 
from the FSA/FCA in a particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension 
liberation/scams/fraud. 
The PRIN section of the FCA Handbook contains 11 principles and I consider the most 
relevant principles in relation to transfer requests and pension liberation to be the following:
Principle 2  A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 7  A  firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Did SW follow the guidance outlined above?
TPRs February 2013 scorpion campaignMr F initiated his pension transfer before the launch of the scorpion campaign:
SW first received a transfer value request on behalf of Mr F in September 2012. 
It received a second request from a different firm on 21 December 2012. 
Mr F signed the pension transfer application 25 January 2013. 
The information SW needed for it to allow the transfer was received by SW on 14 
February 2013. 
The transfer was completed on 15 February 2013 one day after the launch of the 
guidance
So given the dates involved in this process I dont think its unreasonable that SW didnt 
send the scorpion leaflet or take any other action referred to in the guidance. It would have 
been almost impossible for SW to have implemented the recommendations of the guidance 
within one day.
I know the CMC has said providers received advance notice of the guidance but from what 
I know of this issue this wasnt the case. Providers essentially knew that TPR, FSA and a 
number of other bodies were working to disrupt liberation activity  including by promoting 
better consumer awareness on their websites. But I know TPR didnt previously formally 
consult on the guidance or give an indication that significant new guidance was imminent. So 
I dont think SW would have known it had to consider any different scenarios until it had read 
and digested the new guidance. So in my view it isnt unreasonable that SW and other 
providers werent ready for the changes on the exact day the guidance was released. 
I also dont think its reasonable for the CMC to have expected SW to have delayed the 
transfer. I appreciate the guidance wasnt issued with a future implementation date, 
suggesting it was urgent. But there are still practical limits on how quickly any business 
would be expected to implement it. Putting all transfer cases on hold would have involved 
SW making a business wide policy decision, and I think its reasonable that SW would first 
need to digest what the guidance was saying before deciding whether that was a 
proportionate step to take. This doesnt in my view indicate SW failed to act in line with its 
obligations and principles of business the regulator set out.
So for these reasons, I dont think its reasonable that SW should have considered the 
scorpion guidance and applied it in this particular instance.
However, having said that, as detailed above there was some emerging knowledge of 
pension liberation and scams throughout industry when Mr F requested the transfer of his 
pension, so its reasonable that SW would have been aware of the threat and been familiar 
with TPR announcements. I therefore expect SW to have acted accordingly to use its own 
judgement and discretion when handling pension transfer requests at that time as well as 
acting in line with the FCAs Principles for Businesses in all it did.
I know SW checked the scheme was registered with HMRC as it has provided a copy of the 
letter from HMRC confirming this. SW therefore didnt at that point have any reason to think 
there was anything suspicious with the scheme. And while the CMC has stated that the re-
registration of the scheme a month before Mr F authorised the transfer is something that SW 
should have recognised as a warning sign of a liberation scheme, I dont agree. Due to the 
lack of any formalised guidance or specific information about this matter, transferring to a 
scheme that had only just been registered wasnt a widespread concern at the time. So 
I dont think this, in isolation, would have necessarily caused SW to have been concerned by 
the transfer request. This conclusion is supported by the activity of the regulators in this 
period. Clearly, the FSA and TPR were becoming increasingly concerned about liberation schemes in the years prior to Mr Fs transfer. However, their response was primarily aimed 
at closing liberation schemes and raising consumer awareness about cold calls, accessing 
pension funds early, overseas investments and scams. Important though this activity was, it 
doesnt point to transferring to a recently registered scheme as particularly being something 
transferring schemes needed to be mindful of when dealing with a transfer request.
Had SW known anything about the scheme or received any information about it suggesting 
there was a problem, such as intelligence being shared within the industry, I would have 
expected SW to have reacted accordingly to that. But SW has confirmed to me that it didnt 
become aware of any problems with the scheme at the time of Mr Fs transfer request and 
had no reason to think the scheme was suspicious or a pension liberation. It therefore 
allowed the transfer to proceed on that basis. So it seems to me SW had no reason to 
investigate the scheme or Mr Fs transfer as a whole any further and given the timeframe of 
this transfer this doesnt seem unreasonable.
In relation to the other points the CMC has raised as being warning signs when the transfer 
was requested, again because of the lack of precise guidance in the period running up to 
Mr Fs transfer these issues werent considered a cause for concern for providers. This was, 
after all, a rapidly emerging issue. So individual providers, who would only have seen a small 
proportion of all activity in this area, wouldnt necessarily have had a comprehensive enough 
view of pension liberation schemes to have appreciated what the potential risk factors were 
before the scorpion guidance  which did begin to catalogue these risk factors  was issued. 
Of course, some providers may have had an awareness of specific liberation risks ahead of 
the scorpion guidance because they may, for example, have received a sudden increase in 
transfer requests to a previously unknown scheme. But I havent seen anything that makes 
me think SW had, or should reasonably have had, this sort of awareness.
The FSA/FCA Principles for Businesses
While the CMC has said SW didnt adhere to the FSA principles when it processed Mr Fs 
transfer Im satisfied the principles cant be interpreted as meaning SW should have 
investigated every transfer. Even when the regulators first introduced guidance in this area 
they didnt require providers to conduct the same level of exhaustive enquiries on every 
transfer whether warning signs were present or not. So I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to have expected SW to be automatically suspicious of all transfers when the 
regulators, after considering the issue carefully, evidently didnt think that was necessary 
later on.
So looking at what SW did do in relation to Mr Fs transfer request I am satisfied SW worked 
in line with the FSAs principals. I dont think SW had, or should reasonably have had, cause 
for concern about Mr Fs transfer request. By extension, this means Im satisfied the 
principles didnt confer on SW an obligation to have taken additional steps with regards to 
his transfer request.
Overall therefore while I can understand the difficult position Mr F is now in, at the time of his 
pension transfer the issues raised by his CMC werent considered enough of a cause for 
concern for providers across the board. And the first of any guidance concerning potential 
liberation schemes was issued only one day before the transfer was completed so I dont 
think SW was in the position of taking it into consideration for Mr F.
It follows from the above that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint and Im satisfied SW acted in 
line with what was required of it at the time.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman