DRN-1424258
 
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance 
applied unfair charges for damage when she voluntarily terminated the hire 
purchase agreement by which she'd acquired her vehicle. She wants the charges waived.
What happened
Mrs J is represented in this complaint by Mr J. but for ease of reading I'll just refer to her.
Mrs J tells us that she decided to voluntarily terminate (VT) her hire purchase agreement. 
She says that following the vehicle being collected she later received an invoice for charges 
from Audi listing numerous items of damage to the vehicle. Mrs J says she doesn't accept 
the damage is beyond fair wear and tear. And she wasnt given the option to arrange for any 
necessary repair work herself. 
Audi told us the vehicle had been inspected by a company Ill refer to as B". It said the
inspection had been carried out in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing
Association (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. Audi explained it had removed two 
charges as the information from the photographs wasnt enough to justify them.
Our investigator thought Audi had acted fairly. She found that the damage fell outside 
BVRLA guidelines and that Audi was entitled to apply these charges.
Mrs J didn't agree with this outcome. She said she still considered the issues didn't fall 
outside fair wear and tear. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs J would be disappointed to receive these charges when she decided 
to end the agreement early.
Briefly stated Mrs J's complaint is that the damage for which Audi has applied the charges 
shouldn't be considered to fall outside fair wear and tear. And that the damage wouldn't have 
affected the resale value.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this.
Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do 
this.This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
The agreement which Mrs J signed contained the following clause:
Clause 3 (1) of your terms of agreement states:
 
You must keep the vehicle in good repair and condition, commensurate with
its age and mileage
This is followed with clause 3 (2) which states:
You will be responsible for any damage to or deterioration of the Vehicle
otherwise which is in excess of fair wear and tear commensurate with the age
and mileage of the vehicle
The BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines are a recognised and widely used industry tool to 
apply a consistent standard to the measurement of damage when vehicles are returned at 
the end of a hire period.
Our investigator's view set out the relevant provisions and I shan't repeat them here as both 
parties have seen the details.
Ive seen good quality colour photographs of the vehicle which accompanied Bs inspection 
report. In my opinion, theres no doubt that these inspection photographs identified 
those aspects of damage that fell outside BVRLA guidelines and for which Audi is now 
applying charges.
Dealing with other aspects which have been raised about Audi's handing of this matter. As it 
was Mrs J who chose to terminate the agreement she would've been in a position prior to 
the date of termination to have the vehicle examined and repairs done. I understand the first 
enquiry was around 14 June 2019 and the vehicle examination was carried out on 8 July. I 
think that's sufficient time to have the necessary work done. Of course any such repair work 
is likely to have come at some cost. And by not having it done the effect is that the cost of 
such repairs or diminution in value of the vehicle would be passed to Audi.
Whilst Mrs J has asserted the damage wouldn't have affected the resale value there's been 
no information provided to support this suggestion. In my opinion it's challenging to assert 
that damage of the obvious nature depicted on the photographs wouldn't impact the value of 
the vehicle. I find it's probable that the value would've been adversely affected.
I consider that Audi did properly review the complaint which Mrs J made when the charges 
were first advised. And it sent out a final response letter which clearly identified the reason 
charges were applied. And an explanation as to why some charges had been removed.
In summary, I find that the charges that Audi is seeking to apply are for damage that falls 
outside the BVRLA guidelines. The charges themselves are within the range I'd expect and 
are fair and reasonable. Accordingly, I shan't be asking Audi to make any further reductions 
or waive them. And I'm not upholding this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above my final decision is I'm not  upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman