DRN-3323428
The complaint
Mr W has complained about his car insurer Highway Insurance Company Limited as when 
he thought he had changed his car details, via his broker, no change had occurred and the 
police seized his car as they believed he wasnt insured.
What happened
Mr W emailed his broker on 19 June 2021 to change his car details. But he emailed a 
no-reply address. However, shortly after that he took his car for a windscreen repair under 
the policy and this went ahead with no issues. On 12 July the police stopped Mr W and said 
he wasnt insured. His car was seized and impounded.  
Highway made enquiries and discovered that whilst Mr W had tried to change the car details 
via the broker, this had never been done because the broker hadnt received the email, 
having been sent as it was to the no-reply address. Highway also spoke to the windscreen 
company. They admitted that they hadnt verified Mr Ws policy details due to a system error.
Highway felt that as Mr W had tried to make a change and some confusion had been caused 
by the windscreen repairer, it would instate cover retrospectively for Mr Ws car. But that 
caused a premium increase of £1,136. Mr W said he couldnt pay that so Highways said it 
would waive it for him. And pay the £310 impound fee. Meaning he could get his car back 
from the police.
Mr W felt he had always been insured. So he remained unhappy that hed been in a position 
where his car had been seized. Hed also been without it for eight days and had incurred 
extra costs as a result (reported as £30 a day). He also thought the car had been damaged 
whilst with the police and that would likely cost £360 to repair. So he complained to us.
Our Investigator felt that Mr W hadnt changed his car details and, given the situation that 
resulted, Highway had acted fairly and reasonably to assist him. He didnt think Highway 
could reasonably be held responsible for damage which had occurred whilst the police had 
the car. He wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
Mr W said that Highway had agreed that he was always on cover, so his car should never 
really have been taken. And his policy entitles him to the repair of damage by a third-party, 
along with a courtesy car for the period of repairs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this was a very worrying time for Mr W. But Im not persuaded the 
circumstances of his car being seized by the police resulted solely from any failure of 
Highway.
I understand that when Mr W tried to change his car details he did so via his broker. But did 
not receive confirmation from his broker that the update had been done  because Mr W had 
sent details to the wrong email address. Highway, in my view, is not responsible for that.
The windscreen repair company may well act as Highways agent in completing repairs. And 
had it completed a full check on Mr Ws policy details, it would have realised his car, in need 
of repair, wasnt covered. That would have alerted Mr W to the fact that his cover hadnt 
been updated as he thought it had. And hed likely have had chance to complete that change 
before the police stopped him.   
So I think Highway did exactly the fair and reasonable thing in covering the cost of the 
impound fee and instating backdated cover for Mr W. But it was always Mr Ws responsibility 
to ensure his car was properly covered. The windscreen company failed to alert him to the 
fact he wasnt covered. But the fact he wasnt covered was, from the detail I have seen, 
Mr Ws fault. As a driver he must ensure he is properly covered to use his car on the road. 
And he didnt do so. In my view then it isnt fair to hold Highway solely responsible for the 
fact that Mr Ws car was seized by the police. Therefore, Im not minded to make Highway 
look at repairing the damage to Mr Ws car, outside of the policy cover. On this occasion, 
whilst the seizure couldve been prevented by its agent completing proper checks, I dont 
think it would be fair to do so because Mr W also didnt check he had correct cover in place. 
But, that said, given my comments below about compensation, I also think Highway has 
already more than compensated Mr W for this damage (given his estimate for its repair).
I also bear in mind that not only did Highway pay the impound fee, it waived the substantial 
premium increase the change of car on the policy caused. Highway did not have to do that. 
I think it acted more than fairly by doing so and, in the circumstances, I think its only 
reasonable to view this as compensation for Mr W. I say that because this was a charge he 
should always have paid in order to have correct cover for his car. But Highway noted Mr W 
couldnt pay this charge at the time his car was impounded, and without the premium being 
paid the policy wouldnt update and Mr W wouldnt have been able to get his car back. So 
Highway waived the charge and Mr W now has the benefit of full cover whilst not having had 
to pay over a thousand pounds in premiums. 
So if I set that compensation against what Mr W has asked for  £600 (which includes his 
estimated cost of repair), I think Highway has already covered that. And with some to spare 
too. In the circumstances here, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to make 
Highway do anything more.
Of course, if Mr W should want to make a claim under his policy for the damage he has 
reported was caused in the police yard, he can do so. That is because, by dint of Highway 
backdating his policy to 19 June 2021, he is entitled to seek cover from it for the damage he 
says was sustained. Whether a claim in this respect will be successful, I cant say. And it 
would be subject to the normal terms and conditions of the policy, including the excess. 
Mr W should also be aware that any claim under his policy might, as is often the case, affect 
his future premiums.  
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. I dont make any award against Highway Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman