DRN-2594072
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) have unfairly 
declined a claim for loss of earnings, under their Family Legal Protection cover which is part 
of their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this claim is well known to all parties so Ive summarised events.
Mr and Mrs B hold a home insurance policy with Great Lakes which includes Family 
Legal Protection cover. This cover includes loss of earnings while on Jury Service.
Mr B is a director of a company, and has said he takes payment through company 
dividends and a regular salary. And in August 2019 he was called for Jury Service for 
eight days.
Mr B claimed under his Family Legal Protection cover for loss of earnings during the 
time he was on Jury Service.
Great Lakes considered the claim and declined it, saying the policy didnt cover 
earnings from a business or self-employed people
Mr B disagreed  explaining he was an employee. Great Lakes requested 
information from Mr B to support this, such as a contract of employment which it says 
he didnt provide. And it said Mr B had failed to show he suffered a loss.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She outlined claims 
for losses suffered by a business or the Self Employed werent covered, and she 
was satisfied Mr B being the director of a company met this exclusion. 
The investigator also said the policy would only cover losses of salary or wages that 
werent paid because of the jury service, but from what shed seen from his 
statement his payslips suggested his earnings didnt change over time. And she said 
dividends simply werent covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy includes cover for Jury Service. This says:
We will pay the actual loss of Your salary or wages (that are not legally recoverable from 
the court or Your employer) for the time that You are off work whilst attending a Court for 
Jury Service.
This means the policy will only pay for salary or wages that were lost as a result of Jury 
Service. The policy also specifies that copies of wage/salary slips and Your employment 
contract will be required to support any claim.
The policy goes on to list exclusions for this cover. It says:
the policy only covers loss of salary or wages that would be paid by Your employer if You 
had attended work, there is no cover for lost income or other losses suffered by a business 
or the Self Employed;
Great Lakes has said that Mr B has failed to show that he suffered a loss as a result of the 
Jury Service. And it excluded the claim on the basis that it classed him as self-employed or 
having suffered losses suffered by a business. Ill consider these points in turn.
Mr B has said he is an employee and takes a salary from his company. Hes been unable to 
provide a contract of employment, but he has provided copies of his payslips from July 2019 
 September 2019. These show his earnings to be £700 each month. Great Lakes has said 
this doesnt demonstrate that hes suffered a loss of earnings. 
Based on the payslips Mr B has provided it appears there was no drop in his earnings while 
on Jury Service, meaning there was no actual loss of either salary or wages that hes 
seeking to claim for. Im satisfied Great Lakes based its decision to decline the claim on the 
available information, and this was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
Mr B has said he receives additional payments from company dividends. But given the 
nature of a dividend  a payment made to a shareholder related to profits, Im not satisfied 
this would fall under either salary or wages under the terms of the policy. So, this doesnt 
persuade me that Great Lakes has done anything wrong by declining the claim.
There is a dispute about whether Mr B is an employee or self-employed for the purposes of 
the above exclusion, however I dont think I need to consider this as Im satisfied in either 
case theres no actual loss to be covered and Great Lakes has fairly declined the claim.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman