DRN-2068027
The complaint
 Miss G, who is represented by Ms B, complains that Honeycomb Finance Limited (HFL) 
rejected her claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of an educational 
course.
What happened
In February 2018 Miss G invited a representative from a company I will call E to explore an 
educational course for her children. Miss G has limited English and she wanted her children 
to benefit from a good education. Ms B says Miss G was told by Es representative that he 
could offer an online course and a laptop would be provided. She says she was also told that 
if her children had any questions they could contact the teachers via a video link.
Miss G relied on what she was told by the representative and signed up for the course on 
the basis she could cancel whenever she wished. She says she didnt realise she was taking 
out a loan.
Subsequently Miss G realised her children were not progressing and were unable to pass 
the assessments. She thought the material wasnt appropriate for their ages. She contacted 
the adviser who suggested they watch a video which turned to be old and of little use.
Ms B has also explained that the representative had used an incorrect post code which 
meant letters were not delivered until several months later.
HFL rejected Miss Gs complaint and so she brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. She reviewed the 
documentation provide by HFL and concluded it wasnt as clear as it could have been. She 
also noted that Miss G had signed electronically and so this limited what she could see of 
the agreement. Also, as English wasnt her first language she relied on the representative to 
explain what she was signing.
She said it was common for services delivered online to be offered on a monthly subscription 
basis and it would be unusual for a parent to sign up for and pay for several years of tutoring 
for their children up front, which is in effect what Miss G did.
Overall she thought the loan was mis-sold and under Consumer Credit Act 1974 HFL could 
be held responsible for this. She pointed out that the welcome letter had been sent to the 
wrong address and so Miss G wasnt able to take advantage of the 14 day cooling off period. 
She noted that HFL said the account was written off in January 2020.
She recommended that HFL:
Refund Miss Gs loan payments from March 2019 with 8% simple interest calculated 
from the dates Miss G made her payments to the date the complaint is settled
Ensure Miss Gs access to the product is cancelled
Remove any adverse information relating to the loan agreement (late payments, 
defaults etc.) from Miss Gs credit file
HFL didnt agree and said our investigator had taken a different view in another case which 
had been executed in the same way. It said Miss G had signed every document and would 
have had an opportunity to read through them and ask questions and she had a further 14 
days to reconsider. It set out in some detail the processes Es representatives should follow.
It provided contemporaneous notes from E which it says shows Miss G was able to 
understand English. It said the agreement had been emailed to her and this clearly showed 
she had taken out a loan. It pointed out that the required explanations can be given orally 
and the Finance Compliance Confirmation form showed, by way of contemporaneous 
evidence signed by the course advisor on the 11th February 2018, that he had covered 
matters required by reference to Adequate Explanations in accordance with CONC 4.2.
It also said Miss G was responsible for ensuring her address details were correct and her 
details had been amended as soon as HFL was made aware of the correct address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point raised by Miss G or HFL, its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim under Section 75, as only a court can do that. 
Further, I consider that Section 56 is relevant law. In short, this provision makes HFL 
responsible for misrepresentations made by E before it sold the loan to Miss G. A 
misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact that causes the consumer to go ahead with 
the contract.
Miss G was seeking educational support for her children and was keen to ensure they had 
that support. Ms B, who works for a local charity and is not directly connected to Miss G has 
said that she doesnt speak English well. I have also noted in the contemporaneous notes 
HFL have helpfully supplied Miss G is noted as not being able to read English. Overall, I 
think it is reasonable conclude that she was wholly dependent on the sales representative 
for an explanation as to what she was signing up to.
While the representative may have signed a form to say that he had complied with the relevant rules I am not persuaded that this means Miss G fully understood what he had told 
her. I am satisfied with her testimony, which is both credible and consistent, that she 
assumed she was paying for an educational course for her children. One which she could 
stop whenever she thought fit. 
I am also satisfied that she was led to believe that the course would provide more than it did 
in reality. It was only when it became clear that out wasnt delivering the benefit for her 
children did she seek to end it and then discovered she had taken out a loan.
I also think that the electronic application form allows for customers to sign without fully 
appreciating what they are signing. It is necessary for the representative to make it very 
clear that he is selling her a loan alongside an educational course. I cannot say with certainty 
he did so and we have not had any evidence from the representative. HFS have set out the 
process E says its people should use, but that doesnt mean that it is followed to the letter.
As far as the incorrect address is concerned, I think it unfair to put the responsibility on to 
Miss G. The form was completed by the representative and as she cant read English it is 
reasonable to presume she relied on him to get it right. HFL has said that the welcome letter 
was emailed to her, but the lack of the written document in sufficient time to ensure she 
could make use of the 14 day cooling off period is a deficiency.  
Finally, I would explain that this service makes its decisions based on the facts of the 
particular complaint, but I have looked at the complaint mentioned by HFL. It was one which 
was settled informally without a decision and the facts were somewhat different to this 
complaint.
Putting things right
 HFL should allow Miss G to end the agreement.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Honeycomb Finance Limited to:
Refund Miss Gs loan payments from March 2019 with 8% simple interest calculated 
from the dates Miss G made her payments to the date the complaint is settled
Ensure Miss Gs access to the product is cancelled
Remove any adverse information relating to the loan agreement (late payments, 
defaults etc.) from Miss Gs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman