DRN-1510349
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mr X. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1996 alongside a store credit account. Mr X 
was sold the policy at the same time that he applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr X disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr X and his representatives have said, but Ive decided not to uphold 
his complaint. I will explain why. 
The form, which Mr X filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which you make 
by ticking a box. Mr X has no recollection that he was told about the PPI and his 
representatives have suggested that the tick was not made by Mr X. 
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. And this did all happen about 24 
years ago, so I cant be sure how well Mr X has remembered the details of what happened. 
Overall, without stronger supporting evidence, I cant fairly conclude that AXA did something 
wrong in the way the PPI was added to the account. 
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Xs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr X to decide whether it was suitable.
However AXA did need to give Mr X clear and fair information, so he could make an 
informed choice. Mr Xs representatives have said that AXA failed to do this, and so failed in 
their responsibilities under the rules that applied at the time. And certainly I dont have clear 
evidence it did do this properly  at least the information on the form itself wasnt full enough, 
and I dont know whether other information might have been given to Mr X. In such a situation, I look at whether better information is likely to have made a difference. 
But, in Mr Xs circumstances at the time, even if hed been given all the necessary 
information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to his decision. (This is 
assuming he was given a choice, which I accept he says didnt really happen  Ive 
explained my thinking on that issue, above.) I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI 
could have paid out for longer than his full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been 
in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. It would also mean he could have 
kept any savings in reserve for longer. And it doesnt look like hed have been affected by 
any of the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have 
seemed potentially useful, and better information probably wouldnt have made a difference 
to whether or not he took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman