DRN-2034235
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr H. The car here 
was just under two years old and the finance agreement says it had completed 11,000 miles 
although it appears from Mr Hs consistent testimony; the photograph of the milometer hes 
supplied and his consistent complaints to Close Brothers, that the mileage at the beginning 
of the agreement was more likely to have been 11,750 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some limited wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage, but not 
much as it was relatively new.
However, I dont think a reasonable person would consider a car of this age and mileage, to 
be of an acceptable quality if it developed a significant misfire that led it to cut out, and was 
suggestive of an engine problem, within the first four or five months of driving and within 
about 4,000 miles. I think a reasonable person would not consider the car to be suitably 
durable. 
In those circumstances the relevant legislation would allow the business an opportunity to 
repair the car. But the relevant legislation also says that repair should be completed in a 
reasonable timeframe and here Im not persuaded it has been. Mr H says he complained to 
the dealership in around September 2019 and no attempt to fix the problem has been 
undertaken.
So, I think Close Brothers should now allow Mr H to reject the car.
Putting things right
Close Brothers should therefore allow Mr H to reject the car and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Mr H hasnt been able to use the car since October 2019 so Close Brothers should refund 
any finance instalments hes paid since then. They should add interest to this refund as Mr H 
has been deprived of that money.
They should also refund any deposit Mr H paid and, as hes also been deprived of that 
money, they should add interest to that refund too.
I think its clear Mr H has been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to pursue a repair 
when the dealership should have completed one, and hes had to pursue a complaint 
through this service when I think his concerns could have been dealt with earlier. In those 
circumstances, Close Brothers should pay him £200 to compensate him for his experiences.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
allow Mr H to reject his car and end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr H;
refund Mr Hs deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
refund all finance instalments paid from, and including, October 2019. Add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr H £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman