DRN-1428756
Complaint
Miss M has complained about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled her account after her 
card was taken.
What happened
In April 2019, Miss Ms purse was taken, including her debit card and ID, and she reported 
this to Barclays.
In May 2019, a fraudster called Barclays using Miss Ms personal details, to try to make a 
£450 payment. They werent able to answer some security questions, but got through 
security by answering alternative ones.
The next day, Miss M reported the transaction and it was stopped from going out. Barclays 
gave Miss M a more secure telephone banking password, but at Miss Ms request they kept 
her telephone banking blocked until she asked otherwise.
While putting Miss Ms account right, Barclays accidentally credited too much money into it. 
Miss M didnt recognise the mistaken credit and was concerned her account was still being 
misused by someone else.
Barclays apologised for what happened and paid Miss M £150 in compensation. Miss M felt 
this didnt reflect the distress shed been caused, and she was concerned that the fraudster 
could have been given more of her information during their phone call with Barclays. So she 
came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. He thought 
Barclays shouldnt have let the fraudster make the payment. He explained that Barclays did 
not give the fraudster any personal details, and as the payment was stopped, Miss M didnt 
suffer any financial loss. But he thought that it was understandable she felt distressed, and 
that Barclays mistaken credit didnt help. So he said Barclays should pay Miss M a further 
£100 in compensation, to bring the total to £250.
Miss M didnt agree. She felt that £250 didnt reflect all of her distress or the time she spent 
on the issue. So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
I can completely understand why Miss M feels distressed by what happened. I agree with 
her that Barclays should not have put this payment through. And the mistaken credit wont 
have helped when she was already worried about her account. I also understand that 
Miss M has spent time sorting things out, such as in branch and on the phone.I can see that, thankfully, Miss M has not suffered any financial loss here. And Ive listened 
to the phone call involved and can confirm that Barclays did not give the fraudster any of 
Miss Ms sensitive information. The overly large credit was not fraudulent, but was an 
administrative mistake on Barclays part.
Barclays has now set up a more secure password for Miss Ms telephone banking, but in the 
meantime has kept the facility blocked at her request. Her old card was blocked and she was 
issued with a new one, and similarly her online banking was stopped and reissued.
As no money left Miss Ms account from the fraud, theres nothing for Barclays to refund 
there. And it looks like theyve now helped Miss M to secure her account. That leaves the 
issue of the trouble and upset that Miss M suffered unnecessarily.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to recognise 
their error and the impact it had. Its clear that this matter has caused Miss M a good deal of 
distress, and meant she had to spend some time corresponding with Barclays.
When it comes to the amount of compensation Id award, its worth bearing in mind that the 
actions of the fraudster, rather than Barclays, will have been responsible for a proportion of 
Miss Ms distress and inconvenience. Its also worth bearing in mind that were here to 
resolve complaints, and not to issue large fines or punish businesses.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and we need to be 
consistent. I agree with our investigator that £250 is a fair total amount of compensation to 
put things right here. I think its fairer than the initial £150 Barclays paid, as it better reflects 
the stress Barclays put Miss M through, and the trouble she had to go to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I agree with our investigator that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should pay Miss M £250 in total for the trouble and upset they caused, less the 
compensation they have already paid her for this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman