DRN-3354463
The complaint
Mr S complains that Black Horse Limited irresponsibly gave him a hire purchase agreement 
he couldnt afford.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr S acquired a static caravan using a hire purchase agreement from 
Black Horse. The cash price of the caravan was around £50,400. Mr S paid a cash deposit 
of around £5,000 and the remainder of the balance was financed by the hire purchase 
agreement. He was required to make 84 monthly repayments of around £685.
Mr S got in contact with Black Horse a few months after entering into the agreement to say 
he was struggling to afford the repayments. He raised a complaint about Black Horses 
decision to lend to him. He said that it didnt complete adequate affordability checks before 
accepting his application.
Black Horse didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had asked Mr S about his financial 
circumstances, estimated his living costs and carried out a credit check, all of which it said 
demonstrated the agreement was affordable.
I sent Mr S and Black Horse my provisional decision on 18 February 2022. I explained why 
I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Prior to approving the finance, Black Horse were required to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr S ability to afford the borrowing. There isnt a set list of checks 
Black Horse were required to complete. However, the relevant rules set out that the 
checks Black Horse completed needed to be proportionate to the particular 
circumstances of that lending decision. What is considered proportionate will vary 
depending on a number of factors, including (but not limited to): The total repayable, 
the size of the regular repayments, the term and cost of the borrowing and the 
consumers specific circumstances.
Black Horse asked Mr S about his salary and employment. He declared he earned 
£42,000 per year and had been self-employed for many years. Black Horse says this 
income information was corroborated by information obtained from credit reference 
agencies. Black Horse says it also asked Mr S about his existing credit commitments, 
his rent/mortgage payments and asked if he had any other significant outgoings. It 
also completed a credit check to confirm Mr S credit commitments and mortgage 
payment. It says the credit check confirmed the information Mr S had given to be 
accurate.
Lastly, Black Horse says it used statistical data to estimate Mr S likely essential 
monthly living costs. The data gave an estimated living cost of around £450 per 
month. Black Horse said the total essential expenditure it recorded for Mr S was 
therefore around £1,200 per month. It said based on Mr S income, he therefore had 
around £1,500 in disposable income each month from which to make the monthly 
repayments of around £685. Given the large disposable income figure, it said it 
wasnt proportionate to complete any further detailed checks.
Black Horse says that the credit check it completed didnt show any adverse 
information. However, I dont agree thats quite right. I can see that Black Horse had 
noted a county court judgement registered on Mr S credit file for a small amount of 
less than £200. Its not clear from Black Horses checks how historic this judgement 
was. Its possible it had been recorded several years earlier which is why it didnt 
cause any concerns, but Black Horse hasnt provided any clarity on that front. In the 
absence of anything to the contrary to say it wasnt recent, I think this ought to have 
indicated a possible concern on affordability grounds.
Black Horse hasnt given us sufficient detail about exactly what their credit check 
revealed, but I can see that Mr S was continually around £2,000 overdrawn on his 
current account several months prior to the application. I think its most likely this 
would have been visible to Black Horse in any credit check it completed. Ordinarily, I 
think this ought to have prompted Black Horse to have questioned the legitimacy of 
the disposable income figure it had calculated. However, it is relevant to note that 
Mr S put down a cash deposit of around £5,000. I dont think its unreasonable to 
conclude that this likely gave Black Horse some additional assurances about the 
disposable income figure it had calculated. This would have indicated that Mr S was 
choosing to remain overdrawn, instead of being in a position where he couldnt afford 
get the account back into credit. It appeared he had more than sufficient funds to 
clear the overdraft, and the low CCJ balance if he chose to do so.
Im aware that Mr S only had this cash deposit because he took out a loan a couple 
of weeks before applying for the finance with Black Horse. However, given how 
recently the loan had been taken out, Black Horse had no reasonable way of 
knowing about it unless Mr S had told them. I havent seen that he did this. 
Therefore, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Black Horse to assume the cash 
deposit Mr S put down was money he held, not money he had borrowed.
Overall, in the specific circumstances of this case, I think Black Horse completed 
proportionate affordability checks before lending. It seems they gathered a 
reasonable amount of information about Mr S financial circumstances to understand 
whether he could afford to repay the borrowing. While there were two minor adverse 
markers (the CCJ and overdraft usage) that ought to have caused some concern, 
these were outweighed by the sizeable deposit Mr S put down and the income and 
expenditure information showing a substantial amount of disposable income to be 
able to afford the monthly repayments. For this reason, I dont think there was 
anything within what Black Horse saw that ought to have led them to reach a different 
lending decision. I therefore dont consider they acted unfairly in approving the 
finance application.
Our investigator suggested that Black Horse ought to have completed more thorough 
affordability checks. I think its important to highlight that the repayments on this 
agreement were substantially more than Mr S was paying on his mortgage and would 
have almost doubled his overall credit commitments. These circumstances are likely 
in most cases to prompt more thorough checks, however, other factors in this specific 
case (as highlighted above) lead me to conclude the checks Black Horse completed 
were proportionate and reasonable.
However, for completeness, even if I thought Black Horse ought to have carried out 
the further checks our investigator suggested (income verification and asking Mr S about his specific living costs rather than relying on estimates), I dont think this 
would have changed the outcome in any event.
I say this because it appears Mr S income was broadly what he declared. Therefore, 
any verification of that income would have led to the same conclusion about what 
Mr S earned. Ive also considered what information Mr S would likely have declared 
about his essential living costs had those questions been asked of him.
Our investigator concluded (from reviewing Mr S bank statements) that his regular 
monthly expenditure was around £2,000 per month, rather than the figure of around 
£1,200 that Black Horse calculated. This would have left Mr S with around £600-£700 
in disposable income each month, which isnt enough for him to have been able to 
afford the repayments in a sustainable way. Particularly, because Mr S would also 
have been liable for site fees and ground rent to the holiday park that the caravan 
was situated in. However, unlike the investigator, Im not persuaded that Mr S would 
have declared expenditure at that level had Black Horse asked him about it during 
the application. I also dont consider that more thorough checks would have revealed 
any affordability concerns.
I say this for a number of reasons:
Mr S has said that his childcare costs didnt start until August 2019 when his 
partner went back to work. This was the same month he entered into the 
agreement with Black Horse. So, it follows that its unlikely he would have known 
the true extent of any regular costs at this point and even if he did, it seems his 
partner was also going back to work at that time. It would therefore be reasonable 
to assume their income would help pay for some of their joint living expenses 
which the investigator has calculated were solely Mr S responsibility. I find it 
unlikely Mr S wouldnt have made this same point had Black Horse raised 
concerns about his ability to repay during the application process.
Im not persuaded by the explanation Mr S has given about the transfers on his 
bank statements relating to childcare. He says that all the transfers to his partner 
related to childcare costs and that he wasnt able to change the reference 
attached to the payments which is why it still stated: car finance. However, the 
pattern of payments pre-date when he says his childcare costs began and I can 
see that the references on the payments do regularly change. There are 
payments relating to car fix, shoes, car finance, food and car+caravan to 
name a few. Overall, Im not satisfied Mr S was incurring the childcare costs he 
says out of his income or that he would have declared these costs to Black Horse 
if asked.
Mr S has said he intended to rent the caravan out in order to help pay towards 
the monthly repayments. Had Black Horse asked further questions about Mr S 
ability to repay the finance, I think its likely he would have declared this at the 
point of application. While the rental income wouldnt be guaranteed, its clear 
that Mr S wasnt intending to pay for the monthly repayments entirely out of his 
self-employed income.
Ultimately, Mr S is the one that approached the holiday park with the intention of 
wanting to acquire the static caravan. I find it unlikely that he would have openly 
provided information to Black Horse about his financial circumstances that would 
have made it seem he couldnt afford the finance. Im particularly persuaded on 
that point because Black Horses notes from conversations Mr S had with Black 
Horse after the sale indicate he was very keen to still keep the caravan despite 
saying he was struggling to repay.Ive also noted that when Mr S contacted Black Horse he appears to have given a 
number of different reasons for his inability to afford the repayments, including, 
his partner no longer working, a change in family circumstances and reduced 
cash flow due to unpaid invoices and a downturn in the amount of work he was 
receiving. All of this points towards Mr S having significant and detrimental 
changes to his personal circumstances after the finance was entered into. This 
leads me to conclude that Mr S likely believed the agreement to be affordable to 
him at the time he entered into the agreement, but his circumstances changed 
significantly shortly after which caused him to struggle financially. I dont think 
those changes that Mr S experienced could have been reasonably foreseen by 
Black Horse.
I accept Mr S is now in a position where he cannot afford the repayments towards the 
agreement. However, that doesnt automatically mean Black Horse acted unfairly in 
granting the finance in the first place. Im satisfied that in the specific circumstances 
of this case, Black Horse completed reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks which didnt reveal any affordability concerns. For completeness only, Ive set 
out above why I dont think it would have made any material difference anyway had 
Black Horse completed more thorough affordability checks, although in this specific 
case I dont think they needed to.
Black Horse accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr S didnt 
provide any further comments but did provide copies of two different credit agreements that 
had been presented to him by Black Horse.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion I reached in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons. Mr S has provided copies of two different credit agreement with 
different repayments amounts on them. It seems only one of these was executed meaning 
its likely there was some discussion and negotiation prior to Mr S entering into the 
agreement about what he would repay. However, the existence of these two agreements 
doesnt change my view on whether Black Horse acted unfairly in lending to Mr S in the first 
place.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman