DRN-3271273
The complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc treated him unfairly when it declined his 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 with regard to an investment he 
made.
What happened
Mr D purchased what he thought was a marketing and investment software package in 2018 
in order to make money on the financial markets. He paid a deposit of £475 towards this 
using his credit card held with Tesco in December 2018 and paid a further £4,275 by bank 
transfer from his Tesco account also December 2018. He then paid a further £649 in 
January 2019 to gain access to daily stock market data which he said was required to use 
the marketing guide.
Mr D said that hed been having substantial difficulty with the software and in March 2019 
the software stopped working completely. He also said he tried contacting the people hed 
been talking to regarding this package and soon began to think hed been the victim of an 
investment scam. 
So he contacted Tesco to raise a chargeback claim however, as the 120-day limit had 
passed it said it wasnt able to do so. So it then considered a Section 75 claim under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. After investigating, Tesco initially declined the S75 claim as the 
initial payment Mr D made on his credit card was processed by a third-party payment 
processor which I will call Firm P. They said that the involvement of Firm P breaks the 
required Debtor  Creditor  Supplier (DCS) relationship needed for Section 75. And hence it 
didnt consider any further whether there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
in this case. So Mr D brought his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator then issued an assessment pointing to another case where Tesco had 
accepted this services position on Firm P, that is specifically, that it didnt break the DCS 
relationship. Tesco has noted this but then later said it didnt think breach or 
misrepresentation had been made out. Another assessment was issued saying that DCS 
was intact and explaining how the Investigator thought Tesco was liable under S75. Tesco 
didnt agree.
So in December 2021 I issued a provisional decision on this case, giving different reasoning 
and evidence to the Investigators but agreeing with the Investigators conclusion that Tesco 
should refund what Mr D had paid. 
Tesco responded to my provisional decision saying it had received my provisional decision 
but didnt have any more to add. Mr D accepted my position. Accordingly I now proceed to 
issue this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering that Tesco has nothing further to add, that Mr D accepts my findings and the 
nature of my findings in my provisional decision, I see no persuasive reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. Accordingly this complaint is successful. I shall now proceed to 
provide the reasoning for my final decision summarising where I can for brevity and clarity.
There are two major areas for me to consider each of which will have significant argument 
therein. For brevity and clarity I will consider these major areas namely S75 /the DCS 
relationship and whether there has been either a breach or misrepresentation (the liability 
issue). 
Liability
It seems that the real nature of the investment Mr D made wasnt clear to him and 
apparently not clear to either Tesco or our Investigator when they first considered this 
complaint. This is not and has never been a regulated company. When Mr D was dealing 
with this company there was no registered company at Companies House nor any other 
reliable way of identifying any persons involved within this enterprise. The address given is 
an office rental space in London. Ive not been able to trace the phone number.
In my provisional decision I explained my reasoning for concluding this was a fraud. I pointed 
to evidence of this externally and freely available. Tesco has not contended any element of 
this evidence or my reasoning for concluding it was a fraud. Accordingly I am satisfied on 
balance that this was an elaborate fraud based on a fake website, lots of fake reviews of this 
trading guide and trading platform and scammers prepared to talk to investors such as Mr D 
on the phone, often for long periods of time. 
Bearing in mind the telephone calls Mr D was a participant in, the documentation and 
software he received and the elaborate nature of this entire enterprise I can see how he was 
persuaded into putting money into this deception. And it is clearly a deception/fraud. 
Accordingly I shall now consider whether Tesco did anything wrong.
authorisation
Mr D accepts he made the deposit transaction on his Tesco credit card for the scam. He 
doesnt dispute the amount charged or the date it was charged. And it hasnt been argued 
that it was double charged or applied to the wrong account. Considering what has what 
happened here and what the parties have said Im satisfied on balance that Mr D did 
properly authorise the transaction at the time. And it was correctly allocated to his account 
by Tesco. Ive considered the other transactions and Im not persuaded that Tesco has done 
anything wrong there in paying the money Mr D asked it to.
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr D 
does here, Tesco (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I 
dont think Tesco couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr D didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Tesco has said that it couldnt raise a chargeback request due to the time constraints within 
the network rules and due to the time between when Mr D paid the amount and when he 
took his dispute to Tesco. Ive looked into what happened here and considered the network 
rules around chargeback. Bearing in mind the nature of the scam, the timing of events in this 
case and the position Im about to articulate in relation to S75 I dont think I need to decide at 
this point whether Tesco has treated Mr D fairly in relation to chargeback here.
Section 75Here I must consider what Tesco should do. To do this, I have to decide what I think is fair 
and reasonable, having regard to, amongst other things, any relevant law. In this case, the 
relevant law is S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) which says that, in certain 
circumstances, if Mr D paid for goods or services by way of credit and there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the Supplier, Tesco can be held responsible. The Act 
makes clear the need for this three-party relationship to be in place. And it is also clear that 
any such liability is not limited to the amount Mr D used his credit card for, it would include 
other payments made not financed by the credit as well covered by the agreement entered. I 
do not propose to set the detail of the relevant parts of the Act Im relying on here as Tesco 
is more than familiar with it. 
In order to consider what happened in Mr Ds case fairly we also need to consider case law 
since then. To aid this its worth considering how things have evolved since the Act was 
enacted.
Historically credit cards worked within a commonplace three-party structure. Specifically that 
there was:
an agreement between the card issuer (the Creditor) and the cardholder (the Debtor) 
to extend credit by paying for goods or services purchased by the cardholder from 
suppliers who had agreed to honour the card; 
an agreement between the card issuer and the Supplier under which the Supplier 
agreed to accept the card in payment and the card issuer agreed to pay the Supplier 
promptly;
an agreement between the cardholder and the Supplier for the purchase of goods or 
services.
And accordingly this three-way relationship required by the Act is often referred to as the 
DCS relationship, or the DCS chain or simply DCS as it represents the interrelationships 
between Debtor, Creditor and Supplier (the scam as I shall now refer to it as in this 
decision).
As time went by a new type of party entered the market and specifically these types of 
transactions including credit card transactions, known as the Merchant Acquirer. This led to 
the creation of four party relationships where instead of the agreement being between the 
card issuer and the supplier, there were two agreements:
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the supplier, under which the 
supplier undertook to honour the card and the merchant acquirer undertook to pay 
the supplier; and 
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the card issuer, under which the 
merchant acquirer agreed to pay the supplier and the card issuer undertook to 
reimburse the merchant acquirer.
The impact of this development on the application of S75 was considered by the Court of
Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds & others [2006] (the OFT case). The 
Court of Appeal first considered whether the introduction of the four-party structure
meant that the system had evolved significantly beyond the state of affairs to which S75 had
been directed. They concluded that it had not, stating at paragraph 55 of their judgment:
From the customer's point of view  it is difficult to see any justification for drawing a
distinction between the different [three-party and four-party] situations. Indeed, in the case of
those card issuers such as Lloyds TSB, who operate under both three-party and four-party
structures, the customer has no means of knowing whether any given transaction is
conducted under one or other arrangement. Similarly, from the point of view of the card
issuer and the supplier the commercial nature of the relationship is essentially the same:each benefits from the involvement of the other in a way that makes it possible to regard
them as involved in something akin to a joint venture, just as much as in the case of the
three-party structure.
 They went on to say;
It is clear that, whether the transaction is entered into under a three-party or four-party 
structure, the purpose of the credit agreement is to provide the customer with the means to 
pay for goods or services. It follows that in both cases the card issuer finances the 
transaction between the customer and the supplier by making credit available at the point of 
purchase in accordance with the credit agreement. The fact that it does so through the 
medium of an agreement with the merchant acquirer does not detract from that because it is 
the card issuer's agreement to provide credit to the customer that provides the financial 
basis for the transaction with the supplier.
Having provided some important context to the circumstances in Mr Ds case, I need to now 
establish the exact nature of what happened as best I can and the relation between the 
parties involved. 
The DCS issue
I have considered the particular facts of Mr Ds case. In order for S75 to apply there has to 
have been arrangements between Tesco and the Supplier (the scam) to finance 
transactions between Tescos cardholders and the scam. Its clear that there was no direct 
arrangement between them, but this isnt necessarily fatal to the application of S75.
I say this because the Judge who heard the OFT case at first instance ([2005] 1 All ER 843) 
had also considered the meaning of the word arrangements, as used in section 12, and 
whether there existed relevant arrangements between creditors and suppliers (the scam 
here) in the four-party situation. He said that the use of the word showed a deliberate 
intention on the part of the draftsman to use broad, loose language, which was to be 
contrasted with the word agreement. In the Court of Appeal, the creditors argued that 
arrangements should be given a narrower meaning that took the four-party structure outside 
the definition. But the Court of Appeal agreed with the Judge that arrangements had been 
used to embrace a wide range of commercial structures having substantially the same effect. 
They held it was difficult to resist the conclusion that such arrangements existed between 
credit card issuers and suppliers who agreed to accept their cards, and stated;
Moreover, we find it difficult to accept that Parliament would have been willing to allow some
consumers to be disadvantaged by the existence of indirect arrangements when other
consumers were protected because the relevant arrangements were direct.
Accordingly to arrive at a fair outcome I need to stand back and consider the whole network 
of arrangements that were involved in Mr Ds transaction and, in particular, what the roles 
were of the other parties involved who werent the Debtor (Mr D), the Creditor (Tesco) and 
the Supplier (the scam as Ive referred to it).
Ive considered the card network rules regarding the scheme it operates which was used in 
this transaction. I note from its rules it describes a number of parties which may be involved 
in transactions and explains how it treats them and what their obligations are in relation to 
the network and other parties.
Is the DCS chain broken?Tesco has pointed to the presence of Firm P in the transaction, albeit latterly moving away 
from its argument about DCS being broken. This service has been in contact with Firm P 
previously to ascertain the financial transactional services it provides. Within its terms and 
conditions is a requirement to follow the rules of the appropriate card scheme (or network). 
There are also obligations around chargebacks. I note Firm P describes itself as providing 
payment processing services. I note that in its final response letter Tesco refers to Firm P 
as a third-party payment processer (sic). 
In essence Im satisfied that the Scam had outsourced its payment processing to Firm P. 
And Ive considered the network rules applicable here and this need to comply with the 
network rules is mirrored within those for parties such as Firm P.
The legislation here creating S75 was evidently designed to increase consumer protection. 
So if any business wants to release themselves from potential or actual liability (and it is a 
party to the relevant transaction and closer to the arrangement in place and the network than 
the consumer) I think it fair that it supports its arguments about DCS being broken with 
evidence of what happened specifically in the transaction at the heart of the matter. Rather 
than simply point to the presence of a party and say DCS is not in place.
It may be that in this case there was a Merchant Acquirer present also. But whether there 
was a four-party arrangement here or indeed a five-party arrangement present in Mr Ds 
case, either way Im not persuaded DCS is broken here and I shall now explain why.
The High Court considered S75 in the case of Governor and Company of the Bank of 
Scotland v Alfred Truman (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583, (the Truman case). In this case the 
High Court held that its the nature of the role that each party plays and the nexus between 
the Supplier (the Scam here) and Creditor (Tesco) thats the relevant consideration. I do not 
propose to recount all the details of the case here. However I would note the following; the 
Truman case involved the court considering a five-party structure in which the fifth party, had 
no contractual or other direct relationship with the relevant scheme. But it was held that it did 
not matter that the card issuers had no direct contractual or other relationship with the fifth 
party or that the card issuers had no idea of the existence of the fifth party. There still existed 
arrangements sufficient for the requisite DCS link which were not too tenuous.
In Mr Ds case, I think there are stronger indications of relevant arrangements than those in
the Truman case given that Firm P (and any Merchant Acquirer present) were 
independently, specifically and publicly in the business of processing or facilitating financial 
transactions including the transaction in this case. After all, in the Truman case one of the 
connecting parties was a solicitors firm who simply had the facilities to enable the 
transaction. 
The solicitors acted for the car company in the Truman case and provided a variety of legal 
services. The solicitors were only part of the transaction chain in the Truman case because it 
had a machine to take the payment and had an agreement with the car company that it 
would provide access to its machine as part of its broader commercial agreement with the 
car company. Their primary commercial offering was legal services, it was not in the 
commercial enterprise of providing financial transactional services to all potential customers. 
Here Firm P (and any Merchant Acquirer present) is specifically and publicly in the business 
of providing financial transactional services. The transactional services provided here by 
these parties are in effect those that have been outsourced to them by the parties involved 
here as already established in the case of Firm P. And clearly the network in this case had 
arrangements with Firm P (and any Merchant Acquirer) and Tesco would be able to know of 
the parties within the arrangement here and the respective offerings provided prior to the transaction in this case by dint of Firm P and any Merchant Acquirer being users of the 
network used here.
I should specifically add at this juncture that there is no indication then or indeed more 
recently that Tesco was aware of what the scam was in reality and what it was doing. But it 
is clear that within such a chain of parties, as is the case here, the creditor and supplier 
undoubtedly benefit commercially from the involvement of the other, through the 
intermediations of Firm P (and any Merchant Acquirer present), in a way that makes it 
possible to regard them as in something akin to a joint venture. Specifically, by financing 
purchases from the supplier here (the Scam) Tesco are able to lend money to their customer 
(Mr D) and make interest and/or other charges for that service, whilst the Supplier (the 
Scam) is able to obtain payments from Tescos credit card holders and so benefit from the 
credit Tesco extended (albeit indirectly). So I am satisfied that Tesco and the Scam were 
both in this overall arrangement as Ive described. But that certainly doesnt mean that 
Tesco were complicit in what the scammers were doing.
There is no direct relationship here but clearly there is an indirect relationship through the 
arrangements present. Clearly this legislation was put in place with a consumer protection 
aim at the heart of S75. It cannot be that Parliament put in place consumer protection 
legislation which does protect consumers under s75 when things go wrong unintentionally on 
the part of the supplier to the detriment of the debtor, but it doesnt protect consumers in the 
situation where things go wrong intentionally by the supplier to the detriment of the debtor. 
That would be perverse. So although I have no doubt Tesco didnt know that this scam was 
a scam at the time, it is clear from what Ive said above it can be held liable here.
The arrangement here between the creditor and supplier in terms of the number of links 
between parties (if you will) is commonplace in financial transactional services and the 
courts have made clear that this number of links between parties such as these in 
themselves are not too tenuous. Just because the supplier (the scam here) is up to no good 
doesnt make a difference between the inter-relationships of the parties here or somehow 
extend the DCS chain. If Tesco could have showed that Firm P was knowingly complicit in 
what happened here that might make the arrangement too tenuous-but it didnt do so and 
there is no persuasive evidence of that here.
So all in all having considered the evidence and the responses of the parties to my 
provisional decision I am satisfied that the services provided by these intermediary parties in 
this case did not break the DCS chain. Im also satisfied this transaction fits within the 
financial limits set out in relation to S75 claims as described in the Act. Accordingly Im 
satisfied the DCS chain is intact and a S75 claim can be successful if the other requirements 
are made out.
As Ive explained for Tesco to be liable under S75 a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation needs to made out. Its clear that the Scam is no longer operational. Its 
also clear from what Mr D says that hed tried repeatedly to engage with it with regard to 
providing the services promised. I can also see that the scam provided significant materials 
and assurances with regard to its legitimacy and indeed the likely profitability of the 
enterprise. In fact it even provided a guarantee to cover losses if Mr D invested a certain 
amount at certain times. Mr D didnt qualify for this guarantee (contrary to the Investigators 
findings and, I do agree with Tescos submissions around him not qualifying for this 
guarantee), but I can see why he could see that guarantee as being an inducement to him to 
put money into this endeavour.
I have considered what Mr D has said. I can see he believed he was putting money into an 
investment guide and platform in order to have the opportunity to make a profit. So Im 
satisfied there is an agreement here Mr D reasonably entered into. As Ive described Im satisfied that he was both materially misrepresented into entering the arrangement and that 
the scammers breached the contract entered into. So I think Tesco is liable for the reasons 
given.
Im satisfied an agreement was made here which Mr D entered into based on what hed 
been told (which turned out to be untrue). And that the contract was for him to invest in this 
scheme and that by doing so he would have the opportunity to make a profit which would be 
to his benefit and that there was the downside that hed make payments and potentially 
suffer losses. And I think it the case that there was an explicit or implied representation that it 
was a bona fide operation and the platform itself actually existed. Which Im persuaded it did 
not.
So all in all Im satisfied the DCS chain is intact and that Tesco are liable for Mr Ds losses.
Putting things right
Accordingly I direct Tesco Personal Finance Plc to refund Mr D all the payments he made 
(as listed in the background section) and add interest of 8% simple from the time Tesco 
declined the claim Mr D made to when it settles his claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance Plc to settle the matter as Ive 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman