DRN-4319996
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) wasnt of
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2021 Miss S entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement for a new car with
MBFS.
In November 2021 the drivers screen went blank meaning the speed and gear of the car
wasnt showing. Miss S called out a roadside assistance company who advised that the car
should not be driven in that condition. They also suggested that Miss S should move away
from the car with the fob for a period of time and then retry. Miss S followed this advice and
after 45 minutes the fault cleared, and she was able to drive the car.
Miss S says this was an intermittent fault that would reoccur, meaning there were times she
would have to move away from the car and wait. This was stressful and inconvenient. Miss S
says she was worried the car wasnt safe to use.
As the car was covered by a warranty, Miss S took it into a local dealership for investigation.
She says she was told on collecting the car that the fault was fixed but wasnt then given any
report or paperwork as to what repair had been carried out.
Following this repair, Miss S says the fault continued to occur intermittently. She raised a
complaint with MBFS and asked to reject the car and end the agreement. Miss S said the
car wasnt safe and so wasnt of satisfactory quality. Miss S also made a number of calls to
MBFS about her complaint but says she didnt receive a response. Miss S says she told
MBFS that she had a number of photos and a video which were all time stamped showing
the problem.
MBFS didnt ask to see Miss Ss evidence but contacted the dealership who confirmed a 
repair had been undertaken at the end of March 2022 which they said had been successful
and that no further issues had been raised with them by Miss S about the car.
In November 2022, MBFS issued its final response letter to Miss S. It said the evidence was
the car had suffered a display failure in November 2021 and March 2022, following which a
warranty repaired had been undertaken. MBFS said there was no evidence that the fault
hadnt been fixed but if Miss S took the car for diagnostics. it would review any evidence
produced.
Miss S was unhappy at MBFSs decision and decided to sell the car and settle the
outstanding finance in December 2022. She said this had caused her a financial loss and
she also made a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Ss complaint should be upheld. She said on
the evidence that had been provided she thought there was a fault with the car that occurred
intermittently. Our investigator said that although a repair had been carried out, this hadnt
been successful as shown by the time-stamped evidence provided by Miss S and so, the car
wasnt of satisfactory quality. However, our investigator said that although MBFS hadnt
asked for evidence of the fault during its investigation, it had been clear in its final response
letter that it wasnt upholding her complaint due to a lack of evidence the fault was still
present. Our investigator said that as Miss S hadnt then uploaded her photos and video to
show the fault, MBFS hadnt been allowed to fully review its decision. She said that instead
Miss S had sold the car. And that by doing this Miss S hadnt mitigated her losses as selling
the car at a loss hadnt been necessary.
Our investigator said she accepted MBFSs service to Miss S hadnt been what would have
reasonably been expected and because of that she thought the £250 compensation offered
by it to Miss S would be fair.
Our investigator also said that she wasnt entirely satisfied that the fault with the car had
persisted to the point when Miss S had sold it, since shed achieved a sales price in line with
what would be expected for a car of that age that did not experience a fault. In light of that,
our investigator said, she didnt think compensation for any loss of value or being out of
pocket was fair and reasonable.
Miss S disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said £250 compensation was
insufficient for the distress and inconvenience caused to her dealing with the faulty car. Miss
S said that she would have kept the car had it not been faulty, but she was forced to sell it as
it was unreliable, and this had led her to suffer a financial loss since MBFS had said she
could not reject it. She said she had only two choices to continue to pay for a car that was
faulty and she did not wish to use or to sell it. Miss S said she had raised her complaint with
this service because she felt MBFS hadnt had the right to refuse her request to reject the
vehicle.
Miss S also said that MBFS had declined her offers to provide evidence and this failure to
properly investigate had caused her to believe that it had no intention of upholding her
complaint and her request to reject.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me and I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines. 
When looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law and regulations,
but I was not bound by them when I considered  what was fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Miss S was a regulated consumer credit
agreement this service was able to consider complaints relating to it. MBFS was also the
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and was responsible for a complaint
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish,
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the
goods.Here, the car was brand new and therefore it was reasonable to have expected it to be fault
free. Miss S had explained how she had experienced a fault with the vehicles inboard 
display only a few weeks after acquiring it. She said that this fault meant she was unable to 
drive it at times because it didnt show the speed or gear the car was in which would have 
been dangerous and illegal. Miss S had provided a number of date stamped photos and a 
video to show the problem the car was experiencing. She also said that this fault was 
intermittent in nature. Looking at the evidence that had been provided, I thought there was 
sufficient information to say that the car had developed a fault within a short time of Miss S 
acquiring it.
I also didnt think it was disputed that Miss S had taken the car to be repaired by the garage 
in March 2022 which Miss S said hadnt been successful as the same fault arose again 
within a short time. She also said she wasnt sure what work this garage had carried out 
since it never provided her with the details despite her requesting that it did. Id seen that the 
garage informed MBFS that it had performed a software update.
Id also seen that Miss S had complained to MBFS and informed it that the fault had
reoccurred on a number of occasions both before and after the repair. I couldnt see that 
MBFS had asked for evidence from Miss S to support what she had been saying, and I didnt 
know why it hadnt but I thought this was more likely due it not providing Miss S with a 
satisfactory service rather than a predetermination that it wouldnt uphold any request to 
reject the vehicle.
Looking at the evidence that had been supplied by Miss S, Id seen she had shown the car 
suffered the same fault at least seven times after the repair in March so I was satisfied that 
the repair hadnt been successful. I thought I could therefore fairly say that the car hadnt 
been of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and that the retailer had been provided with 
an opportunity to repair but had been unable to cure the fault. In these circumstances, and in 
line with the Consumer Rights Act, I thought Miss S was entitled to reject the car and end the 
agreement.
However, Id seen that Miss S had already sold the car and settled the agreement. She
said she had no choice but to take this action due to the decision of MBF not to allow her to
reject the car. But I thought she had had another option. Looking at the final response letter
from MBFS it had said clearly that it hadnt any evidence the fault hadnt been fixed during 
the repairs in March 2022 but that it would review that decision if evidence was produced. I 
hadnt seen that Miss S had responded to that letter and sent it the evidence she had 
provided to this service. I  thought this would have been reasonable action to take and would 
have allowed MBFS to have properly reviewed her complaint.
So, although MBFS hadnt provided Miss S with an adequate service in respect of this 
matter I didnt think her actions had been entirely reasonable either and I needed to take this 
into account when considering a fair settlement for this complaint. I didnt think Miss S had
mitigated the losses she had experienced by selling the car when she had.
I didnt know the number of miles Miss S had driven the car for and while I accepted  her use 
of it would have been spoiled, I assumed that as the evidence of the fault showed it had 
been intermittent and had occurred in November and December 2021, February, March, 
June, July, August and August of 2022 that she had made some use of it while in her 
possession. It would be usual for any use to paid for by the consumer, but, as I didnt have 
enough evidence to say how much use Miss S had made of it I wasnt going to ask MBFS to 
reimburse any payments she had made under the agreement.
However, I did think it would be fair for Miss S to be reimbursed the deposit she had paid 
under the agreement as this would have been returned to her had she rejected the car and ended the agreement. The agreement showed that the deposit was £3,500 though it had 
also stated this may consist of a contribution from the dealer or manufacturer. If there had 
been such a contribution, then I wouldnt ask for that part to be reimbursed to Miss S, only 
the amount she had actually contributed.
Miss S said that the price fetched for selling the car wasnt relevant because she had the 
right to reject it, but I disagreed with that view. Id seen that the car had fetched a price that 
would be expected had it been fault free and this could support the view that the problem 
with the onboard display was no longer present. But I also thought it had been Miss Ss 
choice to sell the car and I didnt think it would be fair to require MBFS to cover any loss she 
may have suffered in doing so. I couldnt reasonably say that had MBFS seen Miss Ss 
evidence it wouldnt have agreed that the repair had failed. In all these circumstances, I 
wasnt going to ask MBFS to make any reimbursement to Miss S for losses arising from 
selling the car.
But I thought it would be fair for Miss S to receive some compensation from MBFS in respect 
of its handling of her complaint about the car. I agreed it hadnt properly investigated, leaving 
her to deal with the faulty car and that this would have caused her distress and 
inconvenience. I thought £300 (in place of the £250 offered) would be fair in the 
circumstances.
For the reasons given I intended to uphold Miss Ss complaint, but I wasnt asking MBFS
to reimburse all the costs Miss S said she had faced as I thought she could have reduced 
her losses by not choosing to sell the car when she had.
Neither party has asked me to reconsider any part of my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has asked me to look again at the conclusions I reached on the 
evidence provided, I have still reviewed everything including the outcome I reached in Miss 
Ss complaint. I havent changed my view and I am upholding her complaint.
I still think that it was more likely than not that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality at its 
point of supply but that by not providing further evidence to MBFS and selling the car on, 
Miss S had neither allowed MDFS to fully investigate nor mitigated her own losses. I couldnt 
reasonably say that had MBFS seen the evidence Miss sent to this service that it wouldnt 
have agreed that the repair had failed and allowed her to reject it. By choosing to sell the car 
at the time she did then, I thought it was fair that any financial loss that resulted from that 
should be for Miss S to bare. 
For the reasons given above, I dont think Miss S should be reimbursed any payments she 
had made under the agreement. However, the repayment of the deposit would be fair as 
Miss S would have received that back had she rejected the car and had the contract 
cancelled. And as the amount she had sold the car on for had been less than the amount 
borrowed under the credit agreement, this reimbursement wouldnt place her in her a more 
advantageous position than had she rejected the car and handed it back to MBFS.
Putting things right
Im asking Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to do the following:Reimburse any deposit amount paid by Miss S together with interest at the annual rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss S a total amount of compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
dealing with the faulty car.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Miss Ss complaint and Im asking Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance to do the following:
Reimburse any deposit amount paid by Miss S together with interest at the annual rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss S a total amount of compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
dealing with the faulty car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman