DRN-4495239
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly avoided his home insurance 
policy and refused to pay a claim based on an unfair valuation of his contents. 
What happened
Mr R took out a home insurance policy with Covea. When Mr Rs home was burgled, he 
contacted Covea to make a claim. Covea assessed the claim and said Mr R had answered 
the question it asked about the value of his contents incorrectly. It considered this entitled it 
to treat the policy as if it never existed and not to pay the claim. It said it would return the full 
premium Mr R had paid.
When Mr R complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said if Mr R had 
declared the correct value of the contents, Covea had shown it would have refused to offer 
cover. He said Covea had acted fairly by voiding the policy and refusing to pay the claim.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said Covea had incorrectly 
valued his contents.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 6 November 2023. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold this complaint. I said:
Covea thinks Mr R didnt provide reasonable information when he took out the policy 
because he gave the value of his contents as £54,000. When Covea assessed the burglary 
claim, it said the value of his contents was £116,600. It said it wouldnt have offered the 
policy had it known the actual value of his contents.
I asked Covea to confirm how the policy was taken out. For example, whether it was online 
or over the phone. It didnt provide this information. It also told this service it couldnt provide 
the question Mr R was asked when he took out the policy. But, it said the insurance 
schedule showed the amount Mr R had chosen to insure his contents for was £54,000. I 
dont currently think this is enough information to show Mr R didnt provide a reasonable 
answer when he took out the policy. Depending on what Mr R was asked, and any guidance 
provided at the time, this might have meant he provided an accurate answer. For example, if 
he was asked what is the value of your contents?, this might be a different answer to how 
much do you want to insure your contents for?. It is for Covea to show it asked a clear 
question when the policy was taken out and that Mr R didnt answer it reasonably. I dont 
currently think Covea has done this.
I also asked Covea to provide more details about its underwriting criteria, as I didnt think the 
information it had already provided showed what action it would have taken had it known the 
value of Mr Rs contents when he took out the policy. Covea didnt provide any further 
information to show what action it would have taken. So, I dont currently think it has shown it 
wouldnt have offered Mr R cover at all if he had given a higher value for his contents.
Mr R also disagreed with the amount Covea said his contents was worth. Covea provided 
this service with some details that seemed to be for the stolen contents, along with some 
values. I asked Covea to provide further information, including the specific calculation that 
showed the contents as a whole was worth £116,600. Again, it didnt provide any further 
information to show this.
Covea said Mr R didnt provide reasonable information when he took out the policy. But it 
hasnt shown what information it asked him for or why the information he gave was 
unreasonable. So, Im not currently persuaded it would be fair for it to avoid the policy and 
decline the claim. As a result, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and to say Covea 
should reinstate the policy and continue to assess the claim.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 4 December 2023. 
Covea didnt reply.
Mr R replied and, in summary, said:
He wasnt asked to input a value for his contents. He couldnt remember the exact nature 
of the question he was asked and whether there was some confusion between this and 
the default reinstatement value of the property in the questions. £54,000 was the default 
value.
He had lived in his house for 17 years and, inevitably, junk had built up.
He was not told the purpose of the loss adjusters visit, but he had assumed it was to 
look at paperwork and receipts. 
The loss adjuster had forcefully pushed Mr R to accept values of a room within a matter 
of moments of entering the room. In the end, the loss adjuster went with whatever she 
decided.
The loss adjuster was trying to move fixed wardrobes to see if she could class them as 
contents.
The loss adjuster entered a bedroom used to store items such as old clothes. Within a 
minute, without lifting a single item of clothing, she said the contents was valued at 
£40,000. When Mr R argued with this, she brought it down to £25,000. He questioned on 
what basis the loss adjuster had changed the value by £15,000.
He found the loss adjusters actions really underhanded. He felt her sole purpose was to 
undermine the claim as best she could. Mr R later complained about her actions but was 
told they were the experts and knew these things. He questioned how valuations were 
reached without lifting a single item of clothing and spending a matter of minute in each 
room. His complaint was ignored and he didnt receive the information.
He thought Covea and the loss adjuster had been very unfair in their conduct towards 
him and the methods used. The burglary had a massive impact on Mr R and his family, 
including making one of his children afraid. He referred to photos that he said showed 
the devastation left to his home. He didnt have words for the tactics used by Covea. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
As part of that, Ive considered the comments from Mr R in response to my provisional 
decision. Having thought again about the circumstances of the claim and complaint, I remain of the view that Covea should reinstate the policy and continue to consider the claim. It 
should also remove references to the policy voidance from databases.
Putting things right
Covea should reinstate the policy, remove references to its voidance from databases and 
continue to assess the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Reinstate the policy
Remove references to the policy voidance from databases
Continue to assess the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman