DRN-3135060
The complaint
Mr W complains James Hay Administration Company Limited (James Hay) have failed to 
provide the service he paid for on his pension. He wants them to refund his annual fee and 
make a payment for the trouble and upset theyve caused him. 
What happened
Mr W holds a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) plan administered by James Hay. Mr 
W contacted them to highlight what he believed were shortcomings in the administration 
service he had received for the previous tax year.
James Hay reviewed his concerns and agreed there were gaps in the service they had 
provided. They decided to try and put things right with Mr W, so they offered to refund their 
annual fee for the year in question. This totalled £777. Mr W accepted their offer and that 
matter was considered closed.
Mr W subsequently recontacted James Hay to explain that a number of new concerns had 
arisen but covering the current tax year. He complained his messages were not being 
responded to or not done so in a timely manner. He was concerned about the roll-over of an 
existing term deposit within his pension and was seeking to understand why his online 
account with James Hay didnt correctly reflect his understanding of his balance.
James Hay again undertook an investigation of Mr Ws concerns. They agreed the service 
he received had not been at the standard they would expect and as such, upheld his 
complaint. At that point, James Hay decided not to offer Mr W any further redress. They 
didnt believe hed suffered any financial detriment and, because theyd refunded his 
previous years fee of £777, they considered hed been adequality compensated already.
Dissatisfied, Mr W brought his complaint to this service.
The complaint was considered by one of our Investigators. He felt Mr Ws complaint should 
be upheld. He concluded the payment of £777 offered by James Hay should relate to Mr Ws 
concerns about the previous tax years service and not the more recent issues relating to the 
new tax year as well. He didnt think James Hay were correct to conclude that as Mr W had 
already received a fee refund of £777, that is was reasonable to discount any further 
compensation. 
Taking consideration of the trouble and upset caused to Mr W, our Investigator determined a 
payment of £250 was a fair and reasonable amount James Hay should pay to Mr W for the 
inconvenience they had caused him.
James Hay accepted that recommendation
Mr W however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. He told our Investigator, in 
summary, the following:
Given the shortfalls in service, he did not believe James Hay deserved their full fee for 
the new tax year.
He didnt feel the decision our Investigator reached took account of the significant 
trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience which has been caused to him by James 
Hay. He felt £500 would be a fairer amount.
He believed that he has suffered a financial loss because James Hay has not delivered 
the service he has paid for. He feels James Hay has gained financially by not applying 
sufficient resources to his plan. He didnt feel this has been considered
Our investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he felt the amount Mr W was 
seeking was not proportionate to the inconvenience caused.
Mr W asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr W has asked that I consider whether it is fair and 
reasonable for James Hay to receive a full annual fee for the new tax year given the level of 
service that has been provided to him.
What I dont believe is in any doubt here is, whether Mr W received the service he would 
have expected for the fee he was charged. James Hay have conceded he did not. The 
question at the heart of the complaint is whether it was reasonable for James Hay to 
conclude that as they had already paid Mr W £777 for an earlier complaint, they wouldnt 
have to pay compensation for his later concerns covering the new tax year. I dont believe it 
is, and Ill explain why below.
I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Its important to understand what the annual fee Mr W pays to James Hay typically covers. 
As with all SIPP providers, theyll incur costs linked to staffing such as handling his queries, 
administration such as the issuing of statements and paperwork to him, IT costs, regulatory 
and insurance costs along with the expense of managing the relationship between third party 
providers such as banks and intermediaries. During the tax year, James Hay will have borne 
those costs in administering Mr Ws SIPP.
Taking this account, I dont believe its fair to expect James Hay to refund their annual fee on 
Mr Ws SIPP every time mistakes occur, or the service levels are below what Mr W expects. 
Whilst theres no doubt there were gaps in the service they provided, his SIPP still benefited 
from the range of wider services from them and importantly, James Hay incurred the costs of 
providing them to him. I also dont believe that refunding the fees for the new tax year would 
place him back in the same position he wouldve been in had the mistake not occurred. 
I am unable to agree with Mr Ws assertion that James Hay has benefited financially from 
the shortfalls in the service he received as I have seen no evidence of this. I have also seen 
no evidence that Mr W has suffered a financial loss as a result of the actions of James Hay 
as he claims.I would also note that James Hay did offer Mr W to transfer his SIPP elsewhere without a fee 
if he remained dissatisfied with their service. And they extended the deadline to do this until 
late September 2021. I appreciate Mr W didnt take James Hay up on this offer, however I do 
think it was fair in the circumstances to offer this to Mr W and would have allowed him to 
seek out a different provider if he generally remained dissatisfied with their service and what 
he was paying in fees.
Our Investigator noted he could well understand Mr Ws thought process in believing that 
given James Hay had refunded the previous years costs, they should do the same again in 
light of the new issues he presented. Whilst this service has not reviewed the issues Mr W 
raised with James Hay covering the previous tax year (as those concerns were resolved to 
Mr Ws satisfaction by James Hay), I can conclude that it would be most unlikely wed ask 
James Hay to rebate their fee in full. It is of course up to individual businesses to determine 
the level of compensation they wish to offer consumers when issues around inconvenience 
arise. 
Therefore, I considered whether the recommendation of £250 for the trouble and upset Mr W 
suffered that was put forward by our Investigator for service shortfalls he received in the new 
tax year, is reasonable. I believe it is and Ill explain why below.
To help determine the level of payment businesses should make where consumers have 
suffered as a consequence of poor service, we look at each case on its own individual 
merits. Its important to remember in this instance, I am only looking at the new tax year as 
James Hay have already put things right for Mr W on the issues he encountered on the 
previous year.
In their resolution letter to Mr W, James Hay wrote:
I do accept that the level of service provided by James Hay has on several occasions fallen 
below that which I would expect you to receive. At James Hay. we aim to deliver a premium 
level of administration and I am deeply sorry that this was not evident in your dealings with 
the firm. Therefore. I have recorded your complaint as upheld for FCA reporting purposes, 
and I would like to offer my sincere apologies in this regard.
Mr W explained his concerns covering the new tax year related to James Hay failing to roll-
over a fixed term deposit and not responding to multiple messages hed sent to them in a 
timely manner. In addition, his concerns also appear to relate to incorrect balances being 
shown online. Whilst it appears James Hay did roll-over Mr Ws deposit as he had initially 
wished, they failed to provide confirmation of that until they were prompted by him. There is 
evidence on the file of multiple messages going backwards and forwards between Mr W and 
James Hay; the file shows on a number of occasions his update requests going 
unanswered. 
I do think it important though to acknowledge James Hays role as an intermediary between 
Mr W and third-party banks with whom deposits were being placed with inside his SIPP. I 
could see evidence of a mistake occurring at third party bank that was subsequently rectified 
that led to some delays. I dont believe its fair in those circumstances to penalise James Hay 
for someone elses mistake. I also think its important to acknowledge there is considerable 
cross over of correspondence where discussions cover both tax years on the file presented 
to me and its worth remembering Im only focused on the latter tax year.
Whilst I do accept Mr W has exchanged significant volumes of correspondence with James 
Hay, and I would like to fully acknowledge the frustration this must have caused, I dont 
believe his latter experience covering the current tax year meets the threshold for what this service would consider to be substantial. Those instances are typically reserved for 
businesses that have caused serious detrimental effect to a consumers lifestyle.
I do agree with the findings of our Investigator and conclude it would be unfair to make 
James Hay refund Mr Ws fees for the current tax year. I do however believe given the 
service gaps which James Hay have already conceded too, an award of £250 for the trouble 
and upset he has experienced is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct James Hay Administration Company Limited to pay him 
£250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman