DRN-3887948
The complaint
Mr H complains Ascot Lloyd Financial Services Limited (Ascot Lloyd) failed to forward 
documents about his Aegon pension plan to him, delaying him from taking his benefits. He 
also says it received commission which it wasnt entitled to. He wants compensation for his 
lost income.
What happened
Mr H took out a s226 pension plan through his independent financial adviser (IFA) in 1988 
with a pension provider which subsequently became Aegon. The IFA business was also sold 
on several occasions over the years but continued to advise Mr H about his plans. In March 
2014 Mr Hs IFA was acquired by a business that became Ascot Lloyd. 
Ascot Lloyd contacted Mr H proposing new terms and conditions to review and advise on his 
arrangements in return for an initial and ongoing fee. Mr H declined as he felt hed already 
paid for this when the plans were set up. It contacted Mr H subsequently, but he again 
declined its services. Mr H says he removed Ascot Lloyd from involvement with his main 
pension arrangement, also with Aegon, in 2015.
Mr H says he decided to review his pensions during 2018 with a view to drawing them earlier 
than hed planned due to health issues. He says he was unclear on the exact plans he held 
and had lost track of the s226 plan (with Aegon) and was unsure who this policy was with. 
He said he hadnt received any details about it since Ascot Lloyd had taken over the 
previous IFA in 2014. Mr H says he started this conversation . mid 2019 with Ascot 
Lloyd, seeking to identify the missing plan. 
Mr H also contacted Aegon on 8 August 2019, obtaining some information about the plan. 
He requested that Ascot Lloyd be removed from involvement with the s226 plan. Aegon 
confirmed this by letter on 8 August 2019 and enclosed a unit statement showing 
transactions between 2014 and 2019. Mr H then contacted Ascot Lloyd on 29 August 2019 
for an update. 
Ascot Lloyd said it had been removed as agent for the Aegon plan, but it would investigate 
his queries further and get back to him. Mr H says without a response, he followed up again 
in June 2020 and then had to chase further before making a complaint on 1 December 2020. 
He said it had taken too long to respond to his queries, had received fees it wasnt entitled to 
and had failed to forward documents sent to it about his Aegon plan and possibly other plans 
with Aviva. 
Ascot Lloyd rejected the complaint. It said it was recorded as the servicing agent because it 
had taken over the IFA business, but it hadnt received fees or commissions as no service 
agreement was in place. It said it had received copies of three documents, where the 
originals had been sent directly to Mr H, but hadnt received anything since 2017.
Mr H didnt accept this. He said hed already paid for the arrangements to be set up by the 
IFA and it wasnt fair to be asked to pay a 3% fee again to review them. He said Aegon was 
sending Ascot Lloyd annual statements which it wasnt passing on. Ascot Lloyd said Aegon 
had made the servicing agent change automatically rather than it requesting it. It also said it 
wasnt responsible for the advice the previous IFA had provided, as Mr Hs had also raised 
concerns about not being informed about early retirement options.   
Mr H referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, and she 
decided to uphold the complaint in part.
She said Ascot Lloyd hadnt taken over the previous IFAs liabilities and wasnt responsible 
for any advice it had given. She said Mr H had to be treated as a new customer by Ascot 
Lloyd and it was entitled to charge for this. And as Mr H had declined it wasnt obliged to 
provide him with services and advice going forward. However, she said this would be 
different if Ascot Lloyd had received commissions or fees since 2014, but that she hadnt 
seen any evidence that this was the case.
But she said even without a service agreement Ascot Lloyd should have forwarded the 
statements received from Aegon. She said, without hindsight, it wasnt possible to say 
whether Mr H had been financially disadvantaged by this. But that Mr H had been 
inconvenienced by Ascot Lloyds failure to update him in August 2019 and he had to raise 
the same queries in June 2020. And the first time Mr Hs concerns were properly addressed 
was during the investigation of his complaint. She said Ascot Lloyd should pay Mr H £200 in 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by this.
Ascot Lloyd disagreed with our investigators view but said it would pay the compensation to 
settle the complaint. Mr H also disagreed. He made a number of points and provided further 
evidence which he said showed Ascot Lloyd had received fees and commissions from 
Aegon and another insurer. In summary he said:
The Aegon plan benefited from a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) and hed been 
denied earlier access to this from the age of 55 costing him around £4,000, because 
of the failure to provide him with annual statements.
He provided a letter from Aegon dated 18 September 2019, confirming renewal 
statements were issued yearly to Ascot Lloyd.
He said the renewal statements were addressed to Ascot Lloyds parent company 
and not to him.
He said he believed small fees had continued to be paid to Ascot Lloyd and provided 
a unit statement from Aegon showing a deduction of £12 per year.
He said Ascot Lloyd had dropped him as a client because he hadnt accepted a 3% 
fee. He noted our investigators comments about this but said it was open to massive 
abuse by unscrupulous firms.
He provided a letter from Aegon dated 8 August 2019 confirming it had removed 
Ascot Lloyd from the policy.
He said these documents showed hed been financially disadvantaged. Mr H subsequently 
advised hed recently found the original policy and other documents in his loft. But said that 
Aegon had never sent him annual statements direct but always via the IFA.
Our investigator said in view of this further evidence Ascot Lloyd should now do more to 
resolve Mr Hs complaint fairly.
She said one of Mr Hs other pension providers (Aviva) had confirmed it had paid 
commissions to Ascot Lloyd. She said it shouldnt have received these funds and it should 
work out the impact of this on Mr Hs pension fund in terms of lost growth and if a loss had 
been caused it should return it to him. She said it was likely that Ascot Lloyd had received the annual renewal notices between 
2014-19. And these should have either been forwarded to Mr H, or been returned to Aegon 
with advice it wasnt the serving agent. She said Ascot Lloyd should pay Mr H £200 for the 
inconvenience caused and reimburse him for the annuity income he hadnt been paid since 
August 2019, when hed contacted it about the Aegon plan.
Mr H accepted our investigators view and said if Ascot Lloyd agreed to compensating him for 
the lost annuity income, he would waive the nominal amounts paid to it in commissions. 
Ascot Lloyd disagreed. It said Aegon had written directly to Mr H about the plan in 2013, so 
he was aware of it and that he could have contacted Aegon at any time. It said any 
commissions paid by the Aviva policy, which was set up in 1989, were in relation to charges 
for the establishment of the plan rather than for ongoing service. It said it was willing to pay 
the £200 compensation for not being pro-active if it had received annual statements and for 
the subsequent poor service in responding to Mr H. But it didnt agree it was responsible for 
any loss in relation to a delay on the annuity as Mr H had both refused advice and did not 
contact the providers directly to find the information he required.
 
As Ascot Lloyd doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 10 November 2022; I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint in part. But to be clear to Mr H at this stage I dont think its fair to say 
Ascot Lloyd is responsible for delaying the arrangement of the annuity.
I know that this will disappoint Mr H and Ill explain why below. But even if Ascot Lloyd had 
received commission payments (and further clarification is required here) I dont think it was 
obligated to provide Mr H with ongoing services or advice in respect of the Aegon or Aviva 
plans. 
Was Ascot Lloyd required to provide services
Ascot Lloyd offered Mr H ongoing advice and services which he declined on more than one 
occasion. So, I dont think it was obliged to provide ongoing services and advice to him and it 
wasnt responsible for the advice provided by the previous IFAs involved. Mr H says he 
moved one of his other pension arrangements (also with Aegon) away from Ascot Lloyd in 
2015, which I think also confirms he didnt want to use Ascot Lloyd services. 
Aviva has confirmed that it did pay commission on a policy to Ascot Lloyd but has provided 
no other details. I havent seen evidence that confirms commission was paid on the Aegon 
plan. The Aegon unit statement confirms a fixed deduction of £1 per month, which may be a 
policy fee or similar charge retained by Aegon. But even if commission was being paid it was 
on plans arranged many years ago, when the rules applying were very different from now. 
Ascot Lloyd has said the Aviva plan began in 1989 and the policy schedule provided by Mr H 
shows the Aegon plan began in 1988. Then it was common for advisers to be paid a 
commission by the product provider for introducing the business to it. This often comprised 
an upfront amount and a smaller ongoing payment, often called trail commission. The 
commission payment was an agreement between the product provider and the adviser. And was paid from the charges made on the product by the provider, which were separately 
agreed between the consumer and the product provider.
So, any commissions were paid by the product provider for the introduction of the business 
rather than for any ongoing service to the consumer. Advisers often agreed to provide further 
advice if requested but there was usually no obligation to do so unless separately agreed 
between the consumer and the adviser. So, the receipt of trail commission in itself didnt give 
the adviser an obligation to provide ongoing services to the consumer.  
This changed considerably on 31 December 2012 with the Retail Distribution Review (RDR). 
This banned trail commission on any new products but allowed those already being paid on 
existing arrangements to continue. On the evidence Ive seen so far this seems to be what 
happened here in respect of the Aviva plan. If so, then Ascot Lloyd hasnt done anything 
wrong in receiving these payments, and there is no requirement for it to carry out a loss 
calculation on the Aviva policy. 
 
Ascot Lloyd has explained that in effect it only purchased the previous IFAs client bank. It 
wasnt responsible for the advice it had given or any existing service agreements in place. 
This is why Ascot Lloyd proposed new terms and conditions (and charges) for its services. 
That isnt unreasonable. As Mr H declined these services, I dont think it was obliged to 
provide Mr Lloyd with ongoing services on these plans. But I do think it could have been 
more proactive regarding the statements it was receiving and either forwarded these or told 
Aegon to send them directly to Mr H.
Did Ascot Lloyd delay the purchase of the annuity
It isnt clear to me that it did. 
The earliest point Mr H could have taken benefits from this plan was April 2013, so before 
Ascot Lloyds involvement. And he says he received advice about this plan from the previous 
IFA in 2012. It proposed transferring the plan, which Mr H says he decided against in view of 
its enhanced minimum benefits. 
This suggests to me that Mr H was reasonably aware of the plan and the benefits it offered. 
He has said he wasnt aware that Aegon was holding this plan as it was sending 
information to the IFAs, not him. Whilst the plan was originally with Scottish Equitable, this 
business was taken over by Aegon in 1998 and Mr H has said the IFA provided annual 
statements to him, so for many years. And as advice had been offered about the plan in 
2012, shortly before benefits could be drawn, its likely that information from Aegon about 
this plan was discussed then. Ascot Lloyd has located a portfolio report of Mr Hs 
investments prepared by the old IFA dated 1 May 2009. This sets out a schedule of his 
pension plans and clearly shows the s226 arrangement with Aegon and its policy number. 
And since bringing his complaint Mr H has confirmed he has located the original policy 
schedule and other missing documents in his loft. 
So, even without receiving benefit statements from Ascot Lloyd I think its likely that Mr H 
had enough information available to him to be reasonably aware that the missing plan 
benefiting from the GAR was held with Aegon. And I think he could have contacted it about 
the plan if he wanted further information, which, is ultimately what he did shortly after he 
contacted Ascot Lloyd in 2019.
Once Ascot Lloyd acquired the old IFAs client bank it offered Mr H a review and a meeting 
was organised for August 2015. Mr H cancelled this and decided not to become a client of 
Ascot Lloyd. Mr H removed it from involvement with another of his pension plans with Aegon 
in 2015. Ascot Lloyd contacted Mr H again offering a review in July 2016, which he also declined. This indicates to me that Mr H didnt expect Ascot Lloyd to provide him with 
services. 
Taking these points together, I dont think its reasonable to say that not being sent the 
annual statements prevented Mr H from accessing the benefits from the plan. 
And I dont think Ascot Lloyd delayed Mr H from accessing the benefits after he contacted it. 
Mr H has kept a timeline of events which notes he started looking for the missing s226 plan 
in 2018. But he didnt reach out to Ascot Lloyd to establish if it had any information until the 
middle of 2019. He contacted it again on 29 August 2019 and his notes indicate Ascot Lloyd 
had made some enquiries at that point. Mr H said he told it he wanted to find out where my 
pensions are. And that Aegon had confirmed Ascot Lloyd had the information on the s226 
plan and he wanted to know where the GAR plan was.
But at this point Aegon had already confirmed to Mr H it held the missing plan. It 
subsequently wrote to him on 18 September 2019 enclosing the annual statements and said:
With regard to your request concerning the guaranteed annuity rates and how 
benefits can be taken, a quotation for immediate retirement is being issued 
separately. 
Mr H hasnt provided a copy of a quotation from 2019. He says there were some issues in 
setting up the annuity which wasnt completed until January 2021. On this evidence it seems 
clear that Mr H had fairly complete details about the plan by September 2019. This included 
the missing statements and he was in possession of the policy schedule and other details, 
albeit misplaced in his loft. 
Mr Hs diary notes that on 27 May 2020, Aegon had provided Confirmation that they are 
holding pension. It isnt clear if this relates to the s226 plan with the GAR or some other 
arrangement. Then on 23 June 2020 Mr H spoke with Ascot Lloyd again and his notes say 
he was trying to find out why it hadnt forwarded benefit statements and why it has taken it 
so long to respond. I dont think these were issues preventing him from accessing benefits 
from this plan. 
Mr H has provided a copy of a retirement illustration pack issued by Aegon on 29 June 2020. 
It may have been that this was the information Mr H had been waiting for from Aegon 
referred to in its September 2019 letter. Mr H told our service that L&G (who now provide 
annuities for Aegon) had been dragging their feet and not forthcoming with my options. 
That would seem a long delay, but it wasnt one caused by Ascot Lloyd. 
Whilst I understand Mr Hs frustration about the lack of response from Ascot Lloyd explaining 
its actions and confirming details about residual commission payments. I think he had the 
information he required about the missing policy by August /September 2019, so soon after 
he first contacted Ascot Lloyd about it. So, I dont think it is reasonable to say it has delayed 
the arrangement of the annuity until 2021 and I dont think it needs to compensate Mr H for 
any loss of income. 
However, I do think Mr H has suffered some inconvenience and Ascot Lloyd accepts it could 
have been more proactive in responding to Mr Hs queries. And I appreciate that Mr H might 
have thought that there were more details or information to be provided about his pension 
plans. A prompter response might have alleviated such concerns sooner. 
And I think that if Ascot Lloyd was receiving correspondence for Mr H, which it wouldnt (or 
couldnt) act on, the reasonable thing for it to have done would be to contact Aegon and ask it to correspond directly with Mr H. So, I think Mr H did suffer some inconvenience over these 
failings and its fair that he be compensated for this.
Putting things right
I dont think Ascot Lloyd was responsible for any delay in setting up the annuity, so it need 
take no action in respect of this. And, if it has received commission payment on the Aviva 
plan, I havent seen any evidence that it wasnt entitled to receive this, so it need not 
compensate Mr H in respect of this.
  
But I think the failure to either forward correspondence to Mr H or arrange for it to be sent 
direct to him and the failure to follow up on his enquires has resulted in some inconvenience. 
I think its fair that Ascot Lloyd should pay Mr H £200 compensation in respect of this, an 
amount in keeping with what our service would award in similar circumstances. 
I asked both parties to send me any further information or comments they would like me to 
consider.
Response to provisional decision
Ascot Lloyd said it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr H didnt accept my provisional decision and made a number of points. He said he wanted 
to correct some facts. He said he accepted Ascot Lloyd wasnt responsible for the full delay 
in him purchasing his annuity, but that they were responsible for some of the delay. In 
summary:  
1. He said he only declined Ascot Lloyds services once, because at the time it told 
him it would charge around £20,000 for a review, but then in 2019 had said that 
this first meeting would have been free of charge. 
2. He provided various further documents from the time of Ascot Lloyd taking over 
his old IFA which he felt was categoric proof that it became his agent in 2014, 
accepting servicing rights.
3. He had been proactive in his search for the missing plan in 2017/18, believing it 
was with Aviva as a totally separate department at Aegon dealt with this type of 
plan compared to his other arrangements with it.
4. He said legally required annual summaries hadnt been sent to him for over five 
years. Had they, financial decisions could have been made on a more-timely 
basis. 
5. Ascot Lloyd should have advised Aegon it wasnt the agent for the plan instead of 
regularly updating its address with Aegon preventing important data being 
supplied to Mr H.
6. Ascot Lloyd were provably negligent in doing nothing for a period of 18 months 
in misleading Mr H that it knew nothing about the pension plan.
7. That my view that Ascot Lloyd could have been more proactive in forwarding 
the statements or advising Aegon it wasnt acting for Mr H meant not providing 
the statements had affected his financial situation. 
8. Mr H said the plan and its benefits were discussed in 2012 and he wanted to 
keep it open then and pay the small fees for doing so, but that he wasnt aware of 
who the provider was. 
9. He asked for a copy of the valuation report from 2009 (which our service 
provided).
10. He said he didnt know the plan was with Aegon and the statements would have 
provided the missing information. He asked if a customer must know everything 
about every one of their pension pots throughout the life of the plans. And if so, what was the point of an IFA, pension summaries and laws that the customer 
received regular correspondence from the pension provider.
11. He said he had wanted to draw the pension income and the absence of 
documentation had delayed this, and Ascot Lloyd and its predecessors held this 
information. He had told Ascot Lloyd he wanted to draw the income on 29 August 
2019.
12. He said setting up the annuity was delayed after he had details of the policy 
which may have occurred anyway but this had also been delayed because Ascot 
Lloyd hadnt provided information in the period between 2015-2019. 
13. He said that I seemed to consider that as hed had some financial training I 
should not receive the same degree of service that any other member of the 
public should get. And that hed been fortunate to be able to put together the 
information himself. He said the question was whether Ascot Lloyd had delayed 
that process to an ordinary member of the public and this they did in my case for 
over 5 years despite the fact they were not rehired as my IFA.
14. He said he felt that Ascot Lloyd were responsible for around four years of delay 
as you cannot argue against the fact that if I had received the relevant 
information earlier I would have been in a position to take the guaranteed 
income.  
15. He said he remained concerned that IFAs can purchase income, assets, 
business goodwill and customer details off old plans  but can ignore all linked 
liabilities  as such a situation is open to massive abuse.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part along the lines of my provisional 
decision.
The role of our service is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate financial 
businesses, which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. When an IFA acquires 
another firm or client bank of a firm, that is subject to FCA approval and oversight. Theres 
no evidence of any wrongdoing by Ascot Lloyd in respect of this.
I agree that the marketing type communications Mr H received at the time do try to give the 
impression of a seamless takeover with ongoing continuity for clients. And he is correct that 
there are inconsistencies in its responses to his complaint about details of the takeover and 
what would happen. However, when Ascot Lloyd took over the previous IFA business (which 
was subsequently wound up) it didnt acquire a responsibility for the previous advice given. 
As Mr H has said correspondence after the takeover confirmed the relationship would initially 
continue as it had before. But it wasnt required to continue to provide Mr H with ongoing 
services under any previous arrangement and it was free to negotiate new terms if it wanted, 
just as Mr H was himself. 
Mr H says this is wrong and open to abuse, and I can understand why he thinks that. But the 
position remains that Ascot Lloyd did not have an obligation to him unless he accepted the 
new terms and conditions that were subsequently proposed by it. And just as Mr H was free 
to choose who he dealt with, Ascot Lloyd was free to negotiate or renegotiate what terms it 
was prepared to provide its services on. I think that is the key consideration here and that 
overarches many of the points Mr H has made. 
When Ascot Lloyd offered Mr H new terms and conditions for ongoing services he declined. 
And he took steps to deal with his one of his arrangements directly with Aegon, but for whatever reason, not the others. I think this suggests he didnt want to deal with Ascot Lloyd 
or expect it to act for him. Mr H has provided a copy of an email to his former adviser from 
May 2016, who had left AL after the takeover of the old IFA. In this Mr H says hed:
Decided not to go with (AL) and am looking for an IFA.
Im about to sort my pension this year. 
I do think it would have been better if Ascot Lloyd had been pro-active and either forwarded 
correspondence received to Mr H or returned it to Aegon. But, as a matter of courtesy, rather 
than because I think there was an obligation for Ascot Lloyd to have done so. It may be that 
had Ascot Lloyd forwarded correspondence or returned it to Aegon any ambiguity over the 
plan would have been cleared up sooner. But that isnt the same as saying Ascot Lloyd is 
liable for any potential delay, because I dont think it was.   
The onus on issuing pension statements lies with the provider (Aegon) and if had Ascot 
Lloyd had been aware it was receiving correspondence it wouldnt necessarily have been 
aware Mr H wasnt being sent copies of whatever was provided to it. And, whilst I appreciate 
Mr H will find this frustrating, its unlikely that Ascot Lloyd would be aware of any of the detail 
of his arrangements once he had declined to become a client. Thats because the transfer of 
existing agencies when an IFA firm is taken over occurs at an agency rather than an 
individual policy level.
Mr H has said whilst he was aware there was a plan with enhanced benefits, he didnt, in the 
period 2014-2019, know it was with Aegon (formally Scottish Equitable). However, he says 
that this plan was discussed in detail in 2012, when he decided against advice to transfer it 
in view of the valuable benefits it offered, which would be available the following year. 
He also says he enquired about taking the benefits with the previous IFA subsequent to this 
before Ascot Lloyd acquired the client bank in 2014, although as noted above he also 
reached out to the old adviser about the same matter in 2016 advising he was about to 
deal with his pensions.
I think it is unlikely that the discussions in 2012 and after with the previous IFA could have 
taken place without the provider of the plan being identified. And the plan details were also 
clearly shown on portfolio valuations produced by the previous IFA in 2009, which Ascot 
Lloyd. There would be little reason to generate such a report if they went being shared with 
Mr H, although he says he doesnt have a copy of this document. And he has confirmed he 
subsequently located some details of the plan stored in his loft. So, I think Mr H did have 
details about the plan which would have helped track it down, albeit not to hand. And that 
wasnt an issue caused by Ascot Lloyd. 
Even if Mr H didnt recall that the plan was with Aegon he knew there was a plan and made 
some enquiries about it with Aviva and Aegon, he says without success. But he didnt go on 
to contact Ascot Lloyd about it until 2019. I dont think there was anything preventing him 
from reaching out to it before then to see if it did have any information. Indeed, he could 
have asked it for a summary of his arrangements at the time he chose not to accept the new 
terms and conditions it had proposed. And if he had such limited information on his plans, 
Im surprised he didnt request this. But very soon after he did contact it in mid-2019, he was 
in possession of all the information he required directly from Aegon. 
When Mr H did contact Ascot Lloyd, it didnt deal with things very well. But it didnt materially 
delay the arrangement of the annuity the plan offered. And I think much of Mr Hs ongoing 
queries were related more to his concerns over whether it had received commissions on the 
plan, which it had not, and the fairness of the takeover and new terms and conditions being 
put to him. The records Ascot Lloyd has since located didnt provide any information that Mr H hadnt secured himself within weeks of first contacting Ascot Lloyd, so again this didnt 
materially delay him from arranging the annuity.
So, taking everything together I dont think Ascot Lloyd is responsible for any delay in Mr H 
being able to take his benefits from the Aegon plan. But I think it could have handled his 
enquiries better than it did and that this caused him some inconvenience.
Putting things right
I think its fair that compensation be paid for the inconvenience caused and that Ascot Lloyd 
should pay Mr H £200 compensation in respect of this, which is in keeping with what our 
service would award in similar circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Ascot Lloyd Financial Services Limited.
I direct Ascot Lloyd Financial Services Limited to pay Mr H £200 in compensation distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Ascot Lloyd Financial Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
If considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give a certificate showing 
this if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman