DRN-4202163
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lendable Ltd lent to him irresponsibly and kept offering him loans when 
he could not afford it.  
What happened
Using Lendables information here is a table of the approved loans.
Loan Approved Amount Repayment 
ScheduleRepaid date
1 20 August 2021 £1,000 plus £55 
fee12 x £96.23 25 February 2022
2 25 February 2022 £2,000 plus £105 
fee23 x £99.14 
1 x £96.1813 December 2022
3 2 December 2022 £3,500 plus fee of 
£19529 x £157.96
1 x £127.34June 2023
Mr F complained using an on-line complaint resolution service in January 2023 so a few 
weeks after taking the third loan and soon after the first instalment of loan 3. 
Lendable issued to Mr F its final response letter (FRL) in which it explained the approach it 
takes to applications and gave reasons why it did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Mr F referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
adjudicators considered it. He did want to see Mr Fs bank account statements for the period 
leading up to loan 3. He then came to a view that Lendable had not lent irresponsibly.
Mr F wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint and in the meantime had negotiated an 
early settlement with Lendable and so the loan account appears to have closed recently  
June 2023. At the end of May 2023, the full balance due was just under £3,244 and after 
Mr Fs emails to Lendable it accepted £2,650 on 12 June 2023. Mr F was told by Lendable it 
would be noted as a short settlement on his credit file. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lendable had to assess the lending to check if Mr F could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Lendables checks couldve considered several different things, such 
as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Fs income and 
expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lendable should have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr F. These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr F. 
Lendable was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr F was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Fs complaint.
Mr Fs declared income for each of the loans was verified by Lendable before approving 
each loan. It was £1,833 each month, he worked full time and lived in rented 
accommodation. The income and expenditure assessment which would have formed part of 
the creditworthiness assessment has been explained to us in the submissions to us from 
Lendable:
Lendable performs a focused expenditure check to ensure that the customer has a
sufficient proportion of their monthly income left for living costs and non-discretionary
spending after servicing their debts. This is calculated as the proportion of income
remaining after monthly debt servicing obligations, including the monthly repayment
for the new Lendable loan. Revolving account contributions are estimated to require
a minimum repayment of 3% of the outstanding balance. The monthly repayment for
the new loan is added to the total, Lendable uses this value to calculate the 
percentage of the verified income that is required for debt servicing.
 And it was outlined in its FRL addressed to Mr F: 
We reviewed your credit file at the time of your application to understand your 
verifiable monthly expenditure and your history of managing credit.So, the credit research is a key part of the Lendable process. We have copies of all of those 
and Mr F needs to be aware that the regulatory requirements surrounding responsible 
lending do not include mandatory review of bank account statements. 
Ive reviewed each of those and in general none of the credit searches Lendable carried out 
before lending revealed that Mr F had a high level of debt. For instance, Mr Fs overall debt 
balance when he applied for loan 1 was £685, for loan 2 it was £3,279 and for loan 3 it was 
£5,912. None of which Id consider particularly high. There were no indications of any 
insolvency and no adverse information recorded such late payments on his file. For the first 
loan application a default from July 2019 had been recorded and it had been paid off a 
couple of months later. And so Id not consider that on its own to have been enough for 
Lendable to have been concerned as it was some time before loan 1 and had been settled 
soon after the default was applied. 
I have noted that Mr F repaid loan 1 on the same day he took loan 2  around £550 was a 
lump sum payment to clear loan 1. On its own and for the first time Id not say that was a 
reason for Lendable to consider that repaying loan 1 early using the loan 2 funds was a 
reason to be concerned. 
I do not consider that Lendable fell below what was expected of it when considering Mr Fs 
creditworthiness for loans 1 and 2. I do not uphold the complaint about those two loans. 
Our adjudicator considered that Lendable ought to have made some additional checks when 
Mr F applied for loan 3. Loan 2 had not been repaid when he applied for loan 3 and it seems 
that Mr F used the funds from loan 3 to pay off loan 2 a few days later. He repaid £1,377 to 
Lendable in relation to loan 2 around 12 December 2022 which cleared that account. That 
would have been the second time that Mr F had used new funds to repay the older loan. 
And loan 3 was for a much larger sum and for a longer loan term than the other two loans 
plus the credit search did show that his overall debt figure, while still not high, had increased 
a great deal since loan 1. I think that Lendable ought to have carried out some additional 
checks. This could have been done by it asking Mr F to send in copies of bills and payslips 
and rental agreement documents or one convenient method was to have asked to look at 
Mr Fs bank account statements. 
Mr F sent these to us and I have reviewed those for October to December 2022. And theres 
nothing revealed in those documents which, had Lendable asked to review them, would 
likely have led it to consider that Mr F was overindebted or was unable to afford loan 3. 
To illustrate the point, in the set covering 1 November to 30 November 2022 which would 
have been just before loan 3 was approved, the transactions related to relatively usual 
looking daily spends and that he paid off two credit cards. He was receiving interest charges 
on the overdraft but it was modest and using a banks overdraft facility is not something that 
would point to a reason to refuse a loan application. Had Lendable reviewed the evidence 
Mr F has sent to us Id not consider that Lendables lending decision would likely have 
altered. 
I do not uphold the complaint about loan 3. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman