DRN-2901744
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about the service provided under a central heating insurance policy with 
Aviva Insurance Limited. Aviva uses agents to deal with claims and complaints on its behalf. 
For ease of reference I will refer to Aviva throughout
What happened
On 1 November 2020, Mr A made a claim, as his boiler was not working.  He told Aviva that 
his daughter had a medical condition, which is made worse by the cold and she also needs 
regular warm baths to relax her muscles. An appointment was made but this did not go 
ahead. Another appointment was made for 4 November 2020. The engineer said the 
problem was caused by a leaking pipe under the floor and, as he was a gas engineer and 
not a plumber, someone would come out the next day to complete the repair. However, the 
next day the engineer said the water cylinder that was leaking and it would need to be 
replaced. 
Mr A says he heard nothing from Aviva for the next five days and so called on 10 November 
2020 and was told the new cylinder had not been ordered due to an error - it was ordered 
that day. It took seven days after that for the cylinder to arrive but due to another error on 
Avivas part it was not collected for another day. After this, Mr A called every day for updates 
and was told that the cylinder would be delivered on 18 November 2020, but it didnt arrive. 
The plumber attended to fit the cylinder but as it was not there, he had to go leave. I 
understand the cylinder was fitted on 20 November 2020. However, Mr A says he still had no 
hot water and most of the radiators in the house were not working. Another engineer didnt 
come out until 23 November 2020 to fit a new valve but this still didnt resolve the problem. 
The boiler was finally fixed properly on 24 November 2020. 
Mr A is extremely unhappy with the handling of his claim, which resulted in him being without 
heating and hot water for 23 days. He asked for £4,000 compensation because of the 
distress and discomfort caused to his daughter as result. Aviva accepts that it did not handle 
the claim as it should have done and offered £1,000 compensation (increased from £450). 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. Initially she recommended that Aviva pay an 
additional £1,000 compensation but she then reviewed this, and recommended a further 
£500 instead (so a total of £1,500). 
Aviva does not accept the investigators assessments, so the matter has been passed to me. 
Aviva says it was responsible only for a delay of 13 days (one day for the missed 
appointment on 3 November 2020; six days delay in ordering the cylinder; a delay on 19 
November 2020 due to an error on its system and a further five days between 20 and 24 
November 2020). It says it is not responsible for the time waiting for the cylinder to be 
delivered, as this was out of its hands. Aviva also says it delivered two portable heaters to 
Mr A, so he was not entirely without heating. It says the compensation proposed is 
excessive for the period of time it is responsible for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has accepted that it caused some avoidable delay in completing the repairs. It says it 
was responsible for 13 days of the time that Mr A was without heating and hot water and the 
rest of the time was beyond its control. 
Certainly a repair like this would take time, and parts do sometimes take a few days to 
arrive. Aviva is not therefore responsible for the entire 23 day period that Mr A and his family 
were without heating and hot water. However, there were several errors on Avivas part 
during the handling of the claim, which meant an already difficult situation was made 
unnecessarily worse. The claim should have been prioritised, given what Aviva knew about 
Mr As daughter but it apparently wasnt. There were then missed appointments and 
administrative errors, which meant (among other things) the cylinder wasnt ordered properly 
and appointments couldnt go ahead. This resulted in additional delays (and therefore time 
without heating and hot water) of at least 13 days. In my opinion, some additional time is 
also attributable to Aviva, as it should have sent someone suitably qualified out sooner at the 
start of the claim as well.  
This would have been a difficult situation for anyone, given it was winter and very cold 
weather at the time but Aviva was aware that Mr As daughter had a medical condition which 
meant this was especially difficult. In addition to the time without heating and hot water, Mr A 
had to chase the matter up regularly, had the frustration of missed appointments and having 
to accommodate addition appointments that shouldnt have been necessary. Aviva says it 
delivered two heaters and while this would have been some help, it would not have 
alleviated the situation entirely. Mr A has explained he had to keep his daughter warm with 
the portable heaters, others she is unable to sleep (and had to boil kettles constantly to 
provide hot water for baths. I have no doubt this was an extremely stressful situation. 
Alternative accommodation was also apparently discussed but, as Mr As home is specially 
adapted for his daughter, this was not an option. 
Having considered all the evidence, and the trouble caused to Mr A and his family, I agree 
that £1,500 is not unreasonable in this case. 
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited and require it to pay Mr A the sum of 
£1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim. 
(This is to include the £1,000 already offered, so if this has already been paid, Aviva only 
now needs to pay the balance of £500.) 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021. 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman