DRN-1666188
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that NRAM Limited sold their properties for less than they were 
worth, resulting in a shortfall on their mortgage debt.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had three properties mortgaged with NRAM on a buy to let basis. The terms of 
the mortgages ended in early 2017, by which time Mr and Mrs S were in arrears. They didnt 
pay back the capital at the end of the terms, or clear the arrears. So NRAM appointed 
receivers to manage the properties.
The receivers recommended that the properties be taken into possession and sold  
although that might result in a shortfall, it was likely the longer matters were left the worse 
the shortfall would be. So NRAM repossessed all three properties.
It then placed them on the market. Two properties were sold on open market and the third 
was sold at auction. Mr and Mrs S were left with a substantial shortfall across the three 
properties, so they complained. Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, 
and Mr and Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were buy to let mortgages, and so not regulated. That meant NRAM wasnt required 
to go to court and could take the properties into possession from the receiver.
Once NRAM was in possession, it should, as it did, have tried to sell the properties. As a 
matter of good practice and in fairness, theres a balance to be struck. On the one hand, it 
should try to get the best possible sale price to maximise the return (or, as here, minimise 
the shortfall) for the borrower. On the other hand, it should sell the properties as quickly as 
possible because until theyre sold the arrears, and so the mortgage balance, continue to 
mount up.
In deciding the price at which to market the properties, NRAM should have got the opinion 
both of a qualified surveyor and an experienced local estate agent. It should then market the 
properties at or above the recommended price, trying to achieve the best sale price.
In this case, I can see NRAM did all those things. It acted on the recommendations of 
surveyors and estate agents in setting the sale price.
Unfortunately there were problems with all three properties which impacted on their sale 
price. One of the properties had damp. Another had unrepaired water damage in a bedroom, 
caused by the flat above with whose owner there was an ongoing dispute. The third was in 
breach of health and safety requirements because of the condition of the communal areas. In reply to the investigator, Mr S said that he believed the management companies and 
neighbours were responsible for issues like the leak and the communal areas. That may be 
true  but thats not NRAMs responsibility. And as a lender in possession its not in a 
position to resolve longstanding disputes Mr S hasnt been able to resolve himself. So it 
marketed all three properties in their current condition on an as seen basis  but these 
issues inevitably affected their value.
There were a series of viewings and withdrawn offers, but eventually two of the properties 
sold. The third didnt, and was put to auction where it did sell. 
In each of the three cases, having considered the reports of the repossession agents and 
the advice of the surveyors, estate agents and auctioneer, I dont think NRAM sold the 
properties for less than they were worth. They were in poor condition, with longstanding 
problems, and thats reflected in the sale price. Ultimately a property is only worth what 
someone is willing to pay  and NRAM tried, and failed, to get buyers to pay more. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ss concern about being left with the shortfall, and its unfortunate 
that their buy to let investments didnt work out for them. But overall Im satisfied NRAM 
acted fairly and achieved the best prices it could.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman