DRN-2915574
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) has dealt with their claim 
on their property insurance policy unfairly. Theyve said its declined to cover certain parts of 
their claim  including their damaged window and replacement shower  and it caused 
unreasonable delays which affected their health and caused them trouble and upset.
Any reference to St Andrews includes its agents.  
What happened
Mrs and Mr Bs property insurance policy renewed in February 2019 covering their buildings 
and contents. In August 2019 Mrs and Mr B made a claim on their policy as there was an 
escape of water which they thought was coming from the shower. They said water had 
leaked through the kitchen, damaging the ceiling, a window and the kitchen units.
Initially St Andrews accepted Mrs and Mr Bs claim. But it told them to arrange a plumber to 
identify what was causing the leak and fix it. It said it would cover any damage caused by the 
leak and when tracing where it was coming from but it wouldnt cover the repair of the leak 
itself. Mrs and Mr B say the leak was caused by a perished shower connector.
Around October 2019, Mrs and Mr B complained as they werent happy St Andrews 
wouldnt agree to replace undamaged parts of their kitchen. They thought it wouldnt be able 
to match in any replaced parts. In response to their complaint, St Andrews appointed a 
personal claims consultant (PCC) who visited their house a few days later.
During the property visit the PCC said Mrs and Mr B gave varying accounts of what had 
happened. So he asked for a report from the plumber who repaired the leak. Shortly 
afterwards, the PCC identified Mrs and Mr B had made an unsuccessful claim on their policy 
in 2016 for a leak in the bathroom which had caused damage to the kitchen ceiling. So he 
also asked for evidence that had been repaired to show this wasnt the same issue. In the 
meantime, the claim was put on hold. Mrs and Mr B provided emails they said were from the 
plumbers who fixed both leaks. Although St Andrews had concerns about the evidence, 
around a week later, it accepted the claim overall.
 Mrs and Mr B say St Andrews unnecessarily delayed their claim. Theyve said they were 
left with a hole in their kitchen ceiling which made it unusable due to dirt and debris falling 
through. And they could only take baths for several months before a new shower was 
installed in December 2019. Theyve said this caused them health problems and Mrs B was 
unable to remain at the property. They also think St Andrews put their health further at risk 
by not identifying possible asbestos early enough. And theyve provided a quote for their 
replacement window and shower mixer which they say were both damaged by the leak or 
the repairs.
Unable to resolve things, Mrs and Mr B asked our service to look into things. Initially our 
investigator upheld the complaint overall but in her last assessment, she thought 
St Andrews had decided the claim in line with the policy terms. She did think however it 
should pay Mrs and Mr B £500 to make up for the delays. In response to our investigators 
assessment, St Andrews offered to pay Mrs and Mr B £150 for the delays. This was in 
addition to £90 itd already paid for issues with its customer service. Mrs and Mr B didnt 
accept this so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021. I thought St Andrews offer to 
pay £240 in total to settle things was fair in this case in summary because:
I was satisfied the further information St Andrews asked for to support the claim was 
reasonable as it had enough reason to question whether the damage had been ongoing 
for some time and so wasnt covered by the policy. 
I didnt think St Andrews identifying further Artex that needed to be tested for asbestos in 
January 2020 delayed things significantly. Or that it shouldve realised there was further 
Artex sooner than it did. 
Whilst I understood it mustve been difficult living with the ongoing problems and repair 
work, I didnt think the inconvenience was more than Id expect for this type of claim or, 
that St Andrews actions made this worse.
I thought the main element of the kitchen that could be seen  the cupboard doors  
would remain matching so it was fair for St Andrews to replace the damaged units only. 
Mrs and Mr B hadnt shown on the balance of probabilities the damage to their window 
was caused by the leak  or that it wasnt the same window theyd received a quote to 
replace in January 2019, before the leak happened. 
The terms say the policy covers the cost of repairing damage caused by leaks but not 
the cost of repairing the leak itself. As I hadnt seen evidence to show Mrs and Mr Bs 
shower was damaged or no longer working as a result of the leak or repair works, I didnt 
think the cost of a new one should be covered. 
I thought the calls Mrs and Mr B had made to St Andrews were because they thought 
things should be covered under the claim that I dont agree shouldve. And their 
expectations of how quickly things would happen exceeded the usual process. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. 
St Andrews said it didnt have further comments to make. Mrs and Mr B didnt reply by the 
deadline set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party provided any further comments in response to my provisional decision. So 
having considered the case again, I see no reason to change my conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision.
 Putting things right
St Andrews Insurance Plc has offered Mrs and Mr B a total of £240 in this case. To put 
things right, I direct St Andrews to pay Mrs and Mr B any part of this that it hasnt paid 
already. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint in part and direct 
St Andrews Insurance Plc to put things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman