DRN-4502438
The complaint
Mr D complains about the refusal by AJ Bell Asset Management Limited to assist him in the 
conversion of his holding in Rosneft Oil Company from Global Depository Receipts (GDR) 
to shares. 
What happened
Mr D holds over 12,000 GDRs in Rosneft Oil Company via his general investment account 
with AJ Bell. In March 2022 the trading of these GDRs was suspended from the London 
Stock Exchange, due to the sanctions imposed following the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. 
In October 2022 Rosneft applied for the listing of the GDRs on the London Stock Exchange 
to be cancelled, which took place in November 2022. 
Following suspension, Mr D got in touch with AJ Bell to ask that they assist him in converting 
his holding to the underlying shares. AJ Bell refused, because they cant accept the 
underlying shares on their platform due to restrictions imposed by the UK government and 
because they only offer access to shares listed on certain markets. In September 2022 the 
custodian of the underlying shares changed, and the new custodian offered two options for 
conversion:
The assisted process  for which AJ Bell would have to assist in conversion and hold 
a bank account and depository account in Russia to take delivery of the shares in 
the local market. This was not something AJ Bell was willing to do. 
The forced conversion process  this would require Mr D to complete an application 
to the custodian directly and would necessitate him having an account in Russia that 
was able to accept Rosneft shares. He would no longer be able to keep the holding 
in his account with AJ Bell. AJ Bell said they also wouldnt be willing to be involved in 
this process. 
Mr D complained about AJ Bells refusal to be involved in either process. In summary, he 
said they ought to either assist him directly, or outsource this to another party who was 
willing to hold the Russian assets. He said AJ Bell shouldnt have offered the GDRs on its 
platform, unless it was willing and able to protect those investments by assisting in 
conversion. He feels the process of conversion is too onerous and technical for it to be 
realistic for private investors to be expected to follow it, without the assistance of the platform 
on which they hold the GDRs. 
AJ Bell didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr D brought it to our service. An investigator at 
our service looked into it and found that AJ Bell hadnt done anything wrong. Mr D disagreed 
 he said other UK firms have utilised the conversion process and asked whether AJ Bell 
had followed best practice within the industry in this matter. He noted that the investigator 
hadnt referred to any of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles in setting out his 
findings. Mr D has also said AJ Bell havent given him information about the name of the 
company his GDRs are registered in. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind, Mr D asked for an ombudsman to 
consider the complaint, and so its been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to make a finding as to whether AJ Bell has treated Mr D fairly and reasonably. In 
deciding this, Ive taken into account relevant evidence, law, rules and guidance  including 
the FCA Principles Mr D has referred to - but I may not comment on any specifically in my 
decision. 
Mr D has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that I dont go into as much detail, as a discourtesy.  
The conversion of a GDR involves the custodian and/or depository transferring the 
underlying shares into the name of the beneficial owner  in this case Mr D. As the shares 
are not certificated, in practice this means the ownership is transferred to a broker to be held 
by the nominee on Mr Ds behalf. Usually, only brokers who offer trading in the market of the 
underlying shares can hold them  so, as the shares in this case are issued by a Russian 
company, only brokers who access the MOEX (the Moscow Exchange) can hold the shares.
In considering AJ Bells refusal to assist in the conversion process, Ive started by 
considering the terms and conditions governing Mr Ds account, as these set out the 
agreement he has with AJ Bell. They make no mention of depository receipts and how they 
can be converted into the underlying shares, which is not necessarily unusual in my 
experience, as terms and conditions cant cover every eventuality. So, Ive considered the 
reasoning AJ Bell have given for this. 
Not all brokers choose to access all exchanges  and generally I consider that this is 
something that is at their discretion. Its not our services role to tell a company what 
investment services they ought to provide. There are various rules and costs involved in 
offering access to different markets, so its up to the broker  here AJ Bell  to decide which 
markets theyll offer to UK investors. AJ Bell has chosen not to accept the underlying 
Rosneft shares onto its platform. So, Im satisfied that its reasonable for AJ Bell to decide not 
to be directly involved in converting the GDRs, as that would involve them accepting the 
underlying Rosneft shares onto their platform. 
The laws that have gone in to place since Russias invasion of Ukraine, both put in place by 
Russia and the sanctions imposed by the international community on Russia, are 
unprecedented in their scope. Im mindful that during 2022 particularly there was a great 
deal of uncertainty in the UK financial sector about whether (or how) assisting in the 
conversion process would breach any of those laws. Many firms have chosen to take a risk 
averse approach towards potentially breaching them, given the uncertainty, and have 
refused to assist. So, AJ Bell arent alone in their refusal. 
Mr D has suggested that AJ Bell ought to have sourced a third party on his behalf who would 
be able to hold the shares  or assist in the conversion. However, I dont consider this to be 
something AJ Bell reasonably should have done here. This is because it would go 
unreasonably above and beyond the scope of the service that theyve agreed to provide. Ill 
explain further. 
Essentially if they were to source or recommend a third party for Mr D to use, this could be 
considered as them making a personal recommendation or making arrangements for Mr D to 
invest. This could also have the effect of making them somewhat responsible for any transactions that then took place with that third party  and where that third party may sit 
outside of the UK regulatory system, this could cause further problems for AJ Bell. So, there 
are risks to AJ Bell in seeking out a third party on Mr Ds behalf. Im satisfied that whether or 
not to take those risk is AJ Bells choice, as its a matter for their commercial discretion.
Mr D has said AJ Bell shouldnt have offered the GDR on their platform if they werent going 
to facilitate the conversion of those GDRs into the underlying shares. However, AJ Bell has 
not agreed to hold the underlying shares on their platform so conversion would always have 
been difficult. The main reason for buying GDRs is because the shares themselves are 
unavailable to buy in the investors market  so the ability to convert was not guaranteed. 
Again Im mindful that this conversion request is against the background of the sanctions on 
Russia  it hasnt been made in normal circumstances. Overall, Im satisfied that by 
offering the GDR for sale on their platform, AJ Bell werent also promising to assist in the 
conversion of that GDR, especially given the change in global circumstances that have 
happened between the sale of the GDRs to Mr D and the conversion request. 
Im satisfied that AJ Bell provided Mr D with detailed information about how he could pursue 
the forced conversion process and have answered his questions in a fair way. Im also 
satisfied that AJ Bell has explained what will happen to the GDRs if he chooses not to seek 
to convert them himself. 
Lastly, Mr D has complained that AJ Bell hasnt told him the name his GDRs are registered 
in, but I can see that AJ Bell wrote to him on 8 February 2023 with this information, so I cant 
fairly say theyve not answered his questions on this point.
I understand that Mr D will be naturally disappointed by my answer, as it leaves him in a 
position of holding an asset that cant be traded via AJ Bell. Though I appreciate AJ Bell 
havent helped him in the way that Mr D wanted or expected, Im not persuaded that AJ Bell 
has treated him unfairly or unreasonably in refusing to assist in the conversion process. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman