DRN-3553083
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint is about the administration of their mortgage with Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax (BoS). The complaint they referred to us was about:
incorrect information they were given in 2019 when they were told that if they paid a 
certain amount off the arrears on the mortgage, the legal process (including a court 
hearing) would be cancelled. They are also unhappy that they werent provided with a 
copy of the relevant calls in a timely manner after they asked for them; and
the agreement to apitalise the arrears into their mortgage balance was withdrawn the 
following day because of an error by the call handler. They then became concerned 
about the suggestion BoS then made to allow consolidation to happen in the future; and 
Mr and Mrs K also raised an issue about BoS not notifying them when the fixed interest rate 
product linked to the mortgage was coming to an end in 2012 and the move to a variable 
interest rate. This they put forward, caused them to miss payments meaning they were 
trapped in the mortgage and their credit ratings destroyed. However, after discussing the 
matter with our investigator, they decided not to pursue this complaint point.
What happened
There is a long and detailed history to Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage account from 2012. There 
have been several complaints in addition to the above issues that have been referred to us. I 
dont intend to detail everything that happened here, but rather I have documented the key 
events on which the different aspects of this complaint turn.
Mr and Mrs K have a capital and repayment mortgage with BoS. It appears that the first 
missed payment was in late 2012. Arrears built and were reduced on an ongoing basis 
thereafter, with payment arrangements made  sometimes maintained, but sometimes 
broken  and litigation was considered on occasions. It was not until the spring of 2019 that 
litigation was pursued to the point where a court date was set for a possession hearing. The 
date set was 4 September 2019.
Discussions about the mortgage arrears took place throughout 2019, including the possibility 
of capitalising them onto the mortgage. At the beginning of August 2019 Mr and Mrs K were 
given three options for how to deal with the arrears, in order to stop the legal action 
progressing further. This included the option of paying a little over £8,600 off the arrears, 
thereby reducing the amount below BoS litigation level. It was also confirmed that once this 
had happened, if the monthly payments were maintained, BoS would look at potentially 
capitalising the arrears or making an arrangement to clear them. This was confirmed in two 
telephone calls and a letter.
Mr and Mrs K also looked into the option of consolidating/capitalising the arrears into the 
mortgage. It was explained to them that they needed to have made six months payments in 
full and on time. As their payment in March 2019 had been made late, theyd only made five 
payments on time at that point. 
Mr and Mrs K made two payments to reduce the arears by the c.£8,600. At this point, they 
were informed that the litigation and the hearing on 4 September 2019 wouldnt be cancelled 
until after the mortgage payment due on 1 September 2019 was received. This was because 
if Mr and Mrs K didnt make that payment, the arrears would again be over the litigation limit 
and it would be appropriate to continue with the possession hearing. Mr and Mrs K 
complained that theyd been misled. 
Due to the short timescale between the mortgage payment being made and the hearing 
date, it was not possible for BoS solicitors to cancel the hearing in advance. As such, it was 
cancelled by the judge at the beginning of the scheduled hearing time. Mr and Mrs K spoke 
to BoS about the hearing on the day, but it wasnt able to confirm that the hearing had been 
adjourned, and so they felt the need to attend, in case the judge didnt agree. 
BoS sent a final response letter about the subject of the possession process and other 
matters at the beginning of September 2019. It didnt uphold the complaint but didnt set out 
its reasons for rejecting the complaint about the communication surrounding the cessation of 
litigation during August and September 2019.
Other than requests (which were accepted) to set up a direct debit mandate to pay the 
mortgage and a change to the payment date, there was no further substantive contact 
between Mr and Mrs K and BoS for the remainder of 2019. In early 2020 BoS started to 
attempt to speak to them again about the arrears on the account. Various conversations 
were held about payment arrangements, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic and illness 
Mr and Mrs Ks income reduced significantly. They told BoS that they were maintaining their 
mortgage payments from savings. Following Mr K returning to work, the payments were 
made, but not always on the due date. 
In late August 2020 BoS contacted Mr and Mrs K about the possibility of capitalising the 
arrears to their mortgage debt. They said they were interested in doing so and would call 
back the following week. They didnt call back until the middle of December 2020. BoS made 
a mistake at that time, as the individual spoken to thought the late payments Mr and Mrs K 
had been making over the previous months, were actually them paying the following months 
payments early. They were told that their application would be accepted, and it was put 
forward for processing. The following day the mistake was discovered by BoS and 
Mr and Mrs K were told that they werent eligible to capitalise their arrears. 
BoS suggested that if they wanted to do so, it would allocate the payments made toward the 
end of October and November as November and Decembers payments respectively. This 
would mean that two monthly payments had been made on time, and so Mr and Mrs K only 
needed to maintain payments for a further four months to allow consolidation. Mr and Mrs K 
were concerned that BoS was doing something inappropriate and complained about both 
having been given misinformation and the proposal for going forward.
BoS responded in its letter of 17 December 2020. It offered Mr and Mrs K £250 for the poor 
service in that it had raised their expectations by giving them incorrect information in the first 
conversation in December 2020 about their ability to capitalise the arrears. It explained the 
mistake its member of staff had made and offered to treat the payments for Oct and Nov as 
early for the following months. If it moved forward on that basis, which it was willing to do, 
they would only need to continue to make payments as they were for four months to show 
consistency and qualify for consolidation. 
Mr and Mrs K werent satisfied with BoS responses and asked us to consider the complaint. 
They explained how upset they were because half the neighbourhood was aware that they 
had been taken to court, which is something theyd wanted to avoid. Mr and Mrs K said that had BoS told them that they needed to pay more to the mortgage, they could have got the 
additional funds needed. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. In her initial conversation with Mr K she 
explained that in 2012 there had been no requirement for a lender to highlight that an 
interest rate product was coming to an end. Mr K confirmed that as this was the case, they 
didnt want to pursue that part of their complaint. 
The investigator went on to review the remainder of the complaint and set out her 
conclusions. She acknowledged the worry the matter of the court hearing had caused 
Mr and Mrs K, which wasnt helped by the unclear information they received from BoS. In 
addition, the investigator didnt think they had been treated fairly in relation to the 
capitalisation of arrears in 2020. She recommended that BoS:
Capitalise the amount of arrears that had been outstanding as at 10 December 2020.
Re-work the account balance taking into account any payments made and adjusting the 
interest accordingly from December 2020 onwards. 
Pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by BoS providing misleading 
information about the payment of the arrears, for Mr and Mrs K being place in the 
position where they felt they had to attend a court hearing in 2019 and the loss of 
expectation in relation to the capitalisation matter.
Contact Mr and Mrs K to discuss what to do with the mortgage moving forwards. 
Review the payment date, to ensure that it suited Mr and Mrs Ks current employment 
arrangements.
BoS accepted the investigators recommendations and provided detail of the calculations for 
Mr and Mrs Ks information. It also commented that Mr and Mrs K hadnt made any 
payments to the mortgage since January 2021 (as at April 2022) and they had been 
reluctant to engage with its collections team while the complaint was ongoing. It 
recommended that such conversations started as soon as possible so that it could do what it 
could to help them back to financial health.
Our investigator forwarded the offer to Mr and Mrs K, including a recommendation that BoS 
pass the matter to the relevant team as soon as the complaint was resolved in order to be 
able to move things forward. 
Mr and Mrs K werent satisfied with the offer, as they thought the £500 didnt cover the loss 
of reputation they had suffered due to the court hearing. They said they wanted a letter of 
apology for the mistakes BoS made. Mr and Mrs K said that they felt theyd been treated 
badly and that BoS shouldnt get away with it. 
BoS agreed to issue a letter of apology to Mr and Mrs K and also provided an income and 
expenditure form for their use, in order to facilitate the discussions about the way forward 
after the complaint was resolved. 
The form was forwarded to Mr and Mrs K and they subsequently told our investigator that 
they would consider accepting the offer, once theyd had received the apology from BoS. 
Mr and Mrs K werent satisfied with the apology letter when it arrived, as they said that it felt 
hollow because it didnt offer reasons for what had gone wrong and information on how the 
same mistakes would be avoided in the future. As such, Mr and Mrs K asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS accepted that mistakes had been made, and the service Mr and Mrs K received in 
relation to the consolidation of the arrears in 2020 was not what it should have been. While it 
didnt initially accept that it had done anything wrong in relation to the cessation of litigation 
action in August and September 2019, following our investigators involvement, it accepted 
that this service had also not been what it should have been. It wrote to Mr and Mrs K to 
apologise for its mistakes and the effects theyd had on them. As such, I dont need to reach 
any conclusions about whether mistakes were made, as this has been accepted, and I 
simply need to consider what the appropriate redress should be.
When Mr and Mrs K were informed, following them having made the payment theyd been 
told to, that the court hearing wouldnt be cancelled it was clearly upsetting, disappointing 
and concerning for Mr and Mrs K. Due to the short timescales involved, it was then not 
possible for the hearing to be cancelled in advance. While they didnt have to attend the 
hearing, and they were aware that BoS solicitors wouldnt be so it wouldnt go ahead, they 
didnt feel they were able not to attend, just in case, and had the inconvenience of doing so. 
I am satisfied that it would be appropriate for them to receive a compensation payment in 
relation to this issue. I will comment further on the amount below. 
In relation to the consolidation issue, BoS has agreed that it should have been more 
pragmatic about the matter of consolidation when Mr and Mrs K applied, in that it should 
have taken account of the fact that Mr and Mrs K had been maintaining their payments in the 
month they were due, despite the financial strain they had been under. I agree with our 
investigators conclusions in this regard and with the proposed redress  to place 
Mr and Mrs K in the position as though their application had gone through in 
December 2020. This issue will also have caused Mr and Mrs K upset, especially when their 
application was rejected only a day after theyd been told it would go through. 
I note that Mr K has said that he blames BoS for the onset of a medical condition, due to the 
stress the events caused him. He has provided no medical evidence that this was the case, 
and so I cant agree with him on this point. I would also comment that some of the stress 
Mr and Mrs K will have experienced since 2019 will in all likelihood be linked to their general 
situation, but I accept that BoS mistakes and actions will have increased that stress. 
Mr and Mrs K said that the compensation amount our investigator recommended wasnt 
enough to compensate them for the damage to their reputation the court hearing caused 
them. I have thought about this carefully and while the hearing would have been listed where 
it could be accessed by the public, it would only have been listed under their surname, so 
unless their neighbours were aware of their financial difficulties for other reasons, I am not 
persuaded if they accessed the court listings, they would have known it related to 
Mr and Mrs K. In addition, the information would have only been available for very short 
period before the hearing date and only to those registered to access the hearing lists. 
As I have said above, its clear that the situation and mistakes made in relation to their 
mortgage caused Mr and Mrs K upset and inconvenience, on top of the worry they would 
already have been suffering because of their financial difficulties. I have thought carefully 
about this and I am satisfied that £500 is the appropriate amount of compensation for BoS to 
pay Mr and Mrs K.
Mr and Mrs K asked for an apology, but they arent satisfied with what they received 
because it didnt explain why the errors happened and promised that similar things wont 
happen again. How an apology is taken is always a matter of personal perception. While I 
consider that BoS apology would seem adequate, the fact that Mr and Mrs K needed to ask for it, is likely to make anything that they received seem, as theyve described it, hollow. In 
the circumstances, I dont propose to ask BoS to do anything more.
Putting things right
In full and final settlement of this complaint I require Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax 
to:
Capitalise the amount of arrears that was outstanding as at 10 December 2020.
Re-work the account balance taking into account any payments made and adjusting the 
interest accordingly from December 2020 onwards. 
Pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by BoS providing misleading 
information about the payment of the arrears, for Mr and Mrs K being place in the 
position that they felt they had to attend a court hearing in 2019 and upset caused in 
relation to the capitalisation of the arrears.
Review the payment date, to ensure that it suits Mr and Mrs Ks current employment 
arrangements.
BoS has highlighted that Mr and Mrs K havent been willing to interact about the mortgage 
and the increasing arrears while the complaint has been ongoing. Now that our complaint 
process has ended, I would encourage Mr and Mrs K to speak to BoS to explore how it can 
help them with their mortgage and financial difficulties going forward.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Bank of Scotland 
plc should settle the complaint as detailed in putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman