DRN-4192858
The complaint
Mrs M complains Creation Financial Services Limited refused to issue a pro-rata refund of 
her account fee and failed to issue her a voucher for a hotel stay.
What happened
Mrs M held a credit card with Creation linked to membership of a reward scheme with a 
third-party provider. Points earned on the card were redeemable against hotel stays and 
associated benefits. One specific reward was an anniversary voucher, redeemable for a one 
night stay at a hotel. To qualify for the voucher Mrs Ms spending needed to reach a specific 
sum and the annual account anniversary needed to have been reached.
Creation reviewed and then decided to close Mrs Ms account. They sent her a letter at the 
end of September 2021 giving her two months notice that her account would close.
Mrs M says Creation should provide the hotel voucher as she had spent the requisite 
amount on her account or in the alternative, pay the cost for a one-night hotel stay. She says 
she should receive a pro-rata refund of the annual fee because she couldnt use the account 
for the full year. And, she says she didnt receive Creations response to her complaint within 
eight weeks.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ms complaint in part. They concluded:
Creation acted in line with their legal and regulatory obligations when refusing to 
issue a voucher. No evidence pointed to Creation closing Mrs Ms account to avoid 
paying for the cost of a one-night hotel voucher. Nor did the circumstances point to 
certain account terms being unenforceable.
Mrs M says she didnt receive Creations response to her complaint dated 2 
December 2021, until a copy was later emailed to her. But Creation provided a copy 
of the original letter, which was correctly addressed, so the investigator was satisfied 
Creation answered the complaint correctly.
Creation shouldnt retain the full annual account fee in view of Mrs Ms account 
closing. They should pay her a pro-rata refund for the period she no longer had the 
account.
Mrs M disagreed with the outcome our investigator reached, so the complaint has been 
given to me, as an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Creation decided to close Mrs Ms account. They have the discretion to end a customer 
relationship. Ive considered the basis of their decision and its reasonable. Mrs M believes 
the reason for closing her account was to avoid the cost of issuing a hotel voucher. But 
although not issuing the voucher was a consequence of Creations decision, I dont find it 
formed the basis for their decision. So, I dont find their application of the account terms 
unfair or unenforceable.
I make the above finding because Mrs M says Creation should still honour the voucher due 
to spending over the qualifying amount since the last account anniversary. The voucher, 
however, could only be issued on her account being open on the accounts next anniversary. 
As the account was closed for a legitimate reason before that anniversary, Mrs M didnt 
qualify for the voucher, so she isnt entitled to one.
Mrs M was charged £99 on 21 December 2020 and, as her account closed before 21 
December 2021, she paid for use of the account she couldnt benefit from. Creation should 
refund her a pro-rata sum for the period she no longer had use of her credit card account.
Complaint handling is not an activity which falls under our services compulsory jurisdiction. 
So, in isolation, a complaint about a failure to comply with a time limit under the Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP) is not something I can consider  its disconnected from a 
complaint about the underlying financial service Creation provided.
But I can consider points about the manner in which a firm administered its business in 
relation to a financial service. So, Mrs Ms dissatisfaction with Creations explanation as to 
why they refused to honour a voucher earned in relation to her account or to provide a pro-
rata refund, and how long it took to provide that explanation, is something Ive considered.
After considering the evidence and information available, Im satisfied Creation does not 
need to reveal more of their reasoning to Mrs M, and there is a valid reason for this. Im also 
persuaded, based on the evidence Ive seen, that Creation did send their explanation to her 
 even though Mrs M finds it unsatisfactory - in their final response letter on 2 December 
2021.
Putting things right
Subject to Mrs M accepting this decision within the deadline, I require Creation Financial 
Services Limited to pay her a prorated refund of the account fee for the time she no longer 
had use of the account.
My final decision
My decision is I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and require Creation Financial Services Limited to 
pay compensation according to my instruction above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman