DRN-2378549
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Alexander Hall Associates Limited provided unsuitable advice when 
arranging a mortgage for her.
What happened
Mrs B found a property she intended to buy. To complete the purchase, she needed to 
arrange a mortgage, so she spoke with Alexander Hall. She was advised to take out a fixed 
term repayment mortgage.  
During the application Alexander Hall told Mrs B that the lender theyd approached with the 
lowest interest rate said they would only lend the amount Mrs B needed over a 40-year term. 
Mrs B wasnt happy about this and complained, she said shed been told she could get the 
lower interest with a term of 25 years. 
Alexander Hall looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said theyd spoken to the 
lender (lender one) to find out why Mrs B hadnt been accepted for the 25-year term. 
Alexander Hall said theyd been told Mrs B had higher credit card balances than stated on 
her application form. Because of this lender one wouldnt offer her the lower interest rate 
over a 25-year term. Alexander Hall said Mrs B could either reduce her credit card debt, go 
with the 40-year term, or go with a different lender over a 25-year term, but this would have a 
higher interest rate. 
In the final response letter Alexander Hall didnt think their advisor had done anything wrong 
when recommending this mortgage. However, they did agree they could have provided a 
better explanation than they had, because of this Alexander Hall offered Mrs B £75 
compensation. Mrs B didnt think this was enough and brought the complaint here. She said 
shed been charged for the application and didnt think it was suitable as she could get a 
mortgage with another lender for the same interest rate but over 25-years. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. She found that Alexander 
Hall had searched the lenders they used and recommended the lender with the lowest 
interest rate. She found theyd initially applied for it over a 25-year term but due to the 
affordability requirements lender one wouldnt offer the mortgage to Mrs B over a 25-year 
term. She also thought the £75 offer for not explaining the reason why the lender would only 
offer the longer term, as clearly as they could, was enough to compensate Mrs B for this. 
Mrs B disagreed, she said Alexander Hall didnt offer her a second option initially and it was 
only after she complained was it offered to her. She said she was told she would definitely 
get the 25-year term and as this wasnt offered, she shouldnt have to pay the fees for the 
application. 
As Mrs B didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs B is unhappy. Shes been recommended a mortgage which is 
longer than she would ideally like. When Mrs B sought advice, this was done based on the 
information she provided and mortgages available at the time. 
When mortgage advice is given, a number of factors are taken into account, as well as the 
interest rates and terms available, when making sure a mortgage is suitable. And it can only 
be done based on the rates available at the time. It isnt the role of a mortgage advisor to 
recommend the cheapest rate alone, but to recommend a product where all features are 
suitable for a borrower. And it seems this was the case here.
I say that because the suitability letter clearly sets out the lender the advisor recommended 
had the lowest interest rates and was willing to accept Mrs B even though she had been in 
her current employment less than 12 months. It also mentions discussing a shorter term of 
25 years with Mrs B, but due to the lenders affordability criteria they wouldnt accept the 
application, unless it was over a 40-year term. I can also see the letter gives the option to go 
with a different lender who is likely to accept Mrs Bs application over a 25-year term, but this 
would be at a higher interest rate. 
I understand Mrs B said the second option was only mentioned to her after she complained, 
however as its done in the suitability letter, which is dated within a few days of the original 
application, I dont think Alexander Hall have done anything wrong. Ive also considered 
whether Mrs B was told she would definitely get the lowest rate over the 25-year term. Im 
not persuaded she was, I say this because while a mortgage broker can say what youre 
likely to get, the decision is down to the lender and not them. So, I think its unlikely 
Alexander Hall would have said that. 
Even if Alexander Hall did tell Mrs B, she would get her mortgage at the lowest rate over 25 
years, I dont think they did anything wrong in this case. I say that because the reason Mrs B 
didnt get the mortgage she applied for, is because there was inaccurate information on her 
application. And Ive not been provided with anything to persuade me this was Alexander 
Halls error. So, it follows that Im not going to instruct them to do anything different and that 
Im satisfied the offer of £75 for any distress and inconvenience caused is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable. If not already done so Alexander Hall Associates Limited should pay this to Mrs 
B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020. 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman