DRN-2915525
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFSL) refused their 
claim brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). They seek a refund 
of the cost of goods and compensation for consequential losses. 
What happened
The complaint was brought in joint names but for ease of reading Ill mostly refer to Mrs L.
Mrs L tells us that she ordered oak cladding from a business Ill refer to as T. She says that 
the cladding has proved to be inadequate and has shrunk to leave large gaps. And that as a 
result the building isnt weatherproof. She also states that there was a shortfall in the 
quantity of the goods supplied. Mrs L says that shes provided two independent reports to 
show that the goods supplied were defective.
JLFSL told us that the cladding supplied had been in line with that which had been ordered. 
And it queried why, if the cladding was considered to be defective upon receipt, it had been 
installed. It said that the first report indicated that the manner in which the goods were laid 
(fitted) would affect the rate of shrinkage. And that this was a characteristic of the wood 
which the fitter should take into account. It stated that it didnt find that a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation had been evidenced. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 May 2021. I said I intended to uphold 
the complaint but only in part. I said that the contract was for the supply of goods only. And 
that I found it was probable that Mr L had used his own judgement in determining the type 
and quality of cladding that was ordered. There was insufficient information to show that the 
quantity delivered was less than that ordered. And with the exception of 100 linear metres of 
the cladding, which T had accepted was defective, I didnt find there was sufficient 
information to show the goods had not been of satisfactory quality.
Both parties have since replied. And I thank them for their responses. JLFSL accepted my 
provisional decision. Mrs L didnt agree. She provided a recent email exchange with T. And 
re-emphasised some of the earlier points that had been made.
Ive considered the recent material and the additional comments sent by Mrs L. But Im not 
minded to change the view I expressed in my provisional decision. Ill explain why in more 
detail in my final decision which is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs L feels strongly about this matter and I empathise with her feelings of 
disappointment if things didnt work out as planned.
Mr Ls and Mrs Ls complaint amounts to a claim that the cladding supplied by T wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. And that as a consequence, theyve incurred significant losses in having 
to replace it. Its also claimed that the quantity delivered was less than that ordered and paid 
for.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against the supplier, he can also bring that claim against the finance 
provider provided certain conditions are met.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that Mr L and Mrs L might 
have under Section 75. Theres no guarantee that I will reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if they pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. This is because this service is an informal alternative to the courts.
To be able to uphold Mrs Ls complaint Id have to think that thered been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by T. And that the response to the claim by JLFSL hadnt been 
fair and reasonable.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a customer to enter an 
agreement and suffer a loss due to the misrepresentation. A breach of contract would 
probably occur if goods supplied werent of satisfactory quality. Or if the quantity of goods 
supplied was less than that agreed.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
In order to determine if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation, Ive looked at 
what T agreed to do. And I consider that the contract here was solely for the supply of 
goods. I havent seen anything that indicates to me that T had any contractual obligation in 
terms of fitting or other services.
I think that the main issues Im required to address relate to the quantity of goods supplied; if 
T made any misrepresentation in relation to the goods; were the goods supplied of 
satisfactory quality?
Was the correct quantity of wood supplied?
Ive seen no independent information which shows me that the quantity of goods supplied 
was less than the 1,556 metres ordered. Mrs L estimates only 1,404 metres was supplied. 
But in the absence of an independent calculation, I cant say if the need for additional 
material might not be the result of wastage during fitting or a mistaken estimate as to the 
quantity required to complete the work. Theres insufficient information on which to conclude 
any breach of contract occurred in terms of the quantity of goods supplied.Was there any misrepresentation in relation to the goods?
Part of the complaint relates to T allegedly recommending that cladding with a 20mm rebate 
was suitable for use on the building. And its suggested that this wasnt an accurate 
statement.
On the information that Ive seen its probable that Mr L and Mrs L had decided 
independently to use oak cladding on their building. And that they had approached T to 
supply this material. Its not in dispute that Mr L had previous relevant experience and was 
intending to fit the cladding himself.
Ive viewed the various email exchanges which have taken place between the parties both 
before and after supply and including recent communications in June 2021.
Broadly speaking, Id characterise the emails which took place before purchase as outlining 
Mrs Ls requirements and discussions about specifications, quantity and price, along with 
delivery. 
There were general references detailing the experience which T had in the industry. Mrs L 
has referred to statements displayed on Ts website. This includes claims that T understand 
oak cladding, what works and what doesnt and are a centre of excellence for all things 
oak.
For a misrepresentation to occur there has to be a false statement of fact and not just 
opinion or sales talk. 
I dont think that the above statements attributed to T amount to statements of fact.
T also described the products it was able to supply. And stated that its experience had 
shown that a level of rebate of 10mm wasnt sufficient in extreme heat. And that it had now 
revised the rebate it used to 20mm.
I havent seen anything to suggest that those statements were false.
The most recent emails dont appear to me to be anything more than an acknowledgement 
that the shrinkage reported was much greater than usual. And a possible explanation that 
this was due to environmental conditions. It doesnt amount to any acceptance of any breach 
of contract or any previous misrepresentation.
Ive also considered other emails which I think shed light on what probably happened.
An email dated 24 May 2019 from Mr L to T states (amongst other items):
A cladding profile was agreed by both parties as was a price which we paid.
In another email dated 1 July 2019, Mr L states that previously when hed fitted this material, 
hed allowed 35mm rebate. But that he went along with the 20mm specified and assumed 
that T had previously supplied this without issue. 
Mrs L now explains that the type of weatherboard Mr L had previously fitted was a different 
type of material. Whilst I acknowledge this additional information, it doesnt change my 
opinion.
Ive concluded that as one might expect, there were ongoing discussions with T prior to 
supply. These included the general nature and suitability of the product that was being purchased. But I think its probable that Mr L ultimately relied upon his own judgement and 
experience in determining that 20mm rebate would be suitable for the requirements of the 
building on which it was to be fitted. 
I dont find theres sufficient information to show that T made any false statements of fact in 
relation to the goods. And without this there isnt sufficient evidence of a misrepresentation.
Were the goods supplied of satisfactory quality?
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And it includes being fit for purposes that goods of that kind are 
usually supplied.
When the cladding was delivered, parts of it were quickly identified as defective. On 4 June 
2019 Mr L emailed T to say that whilst most of the items have gone up lovely there were 
concerns about the quality of some of the boards supplied. 
Later, in an email exchange, T accepts that some boards were defective and offers to 
replace 100 linear metres as a gesture of goodwill. But states that it had carefully checked 
the quantity of material supplied.
Mrs L queries how T was able to estimate that only 100 linear metres was defective from 
photographs when shed reported an issue with at least 171 linear metres. 
Whilst I understand the point thats being made, Ive not seen any independent confirmation 
to show what precise amount of the cladding was defective. But as T accepted there was 
100 metres which was not of satisfactory quality its fair and reasonable it should 
compensate for at least this amount.
I find that JLFSL shouldve accepted that a liability under Section 75 arose in respect of this 
aspect. As there was an acceptance by T that some of the goods werent of satisfactory 
quality, this was an admission of a partial breach of contract. Not just a matter requiring a 
gesture of goodwill.
I turn now to the contents of the two reports with which Ive been supplied.
These were prepared by separate businesses. The first report was made by a company Ill 
call V. The second by a business Ill call A.
Vs report contains the following:
There appears to be considerable shrinkagethis would suggest the boarding was fixed 
when it was green, that is before any drying of the wood had occurred either naturally or by 
application of heat from a typical proprietary dryer. 
It concludes:
The fixing method and board layout should take account of this characteristic of whatever 
timber is being used but green oak is particularly noted as requiring special attention to 
detail.
The report referred to longitudinal shakes in the boards which can weaken the wood. And 
suggested that this should be allowed for in terms of the quantity of timber supplied.It suggested that the issues it identified could be remedied by piecemeal repairs. Although 
not to a quality it said it would offer its customers. And it went on to recommend that air dried 
200mm x 22mm rebated oak boarding should be used.
As report, on the other hand, doesnt seem to refer to any knots or shakes but appears to 
place great weight on what it views as inadequate rebate and high moisture content of the 
wood used. Which it said led to the boards not being fit for purpose.
It recommended that the entire boards needed to be replaced with a different system of oak 
boards (without rebate).
Some of the main findings of the reports and the inferences that were drawn are similar. And 
I think they amount to suggesting that the subsequent problems are mostly attributable to the 
wood having been fitted before it had dried. And that insufficient allowance had been made 
for shrinkage during the fitting process.
Ive previously indicated that the contract with T was for the supply of goods only. And that 
Mr L had used his own judgement in deciding what material to use. He was also responsible 
for the fitting of the goods after they had been supplied. 
In summary, think that JLFSL was entitled to find that there was insufficient information to 
show that thered been a shortfall in the quantity of wood delivered. Or that the goods 
supplied were not (with the exception of the 100 metres) of satisfactory quality. And it was 
entitled to conclude that other than in this limited respect, no liability under Section 75 arose
I uphold the complaint only to the extent that Ive indicated.
Putting things right
John Lewis Financial Services Limited should take the following action:
 Refund the proportionate cost of 100 linear metres of the wood supplied that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
The calculation of 100 /1556 should be based on the total cost, including delivery.
(10,100.81 + £600 delivery).
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding the complaint but only in part.
I require John Lewis Financial Services Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the 
preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman