DRN-3935336
The complaint
Mr L has complained through a claims management company (CMC) about the advice he 
was given in 2001 to invest in a Barclays Bank Plc Personal Investment Management 
Portfolio. 
What happened
Mr L met with a Barclays advisor in March 2001 and subsequently invested £49,000 from his 
cash deposit accounts and switched approximately £73,500 from his investment holdings.
Mr L made withdrawals from this account totalling £77,000 and received income of 
approximately £11,600. He switched the remaining balance of approximately £34,000 to 
another provider in 2007. In April 2021, he complained to Barclays through his CMC. He said 
that Barclays had not considered his health issues when advising him. He also said that the 
level of risk posed by the investment was not appropriate and too much of his free capital 
was invested. 
Barclays responded to say that unfortunately due to the amount of time that had passed, 
there was a lack of information from the point of sale. However, they did provide a fact find, 
product brochure and client agreement. They said that they believe the advice given was 
suitable, considering Mr Ls needs at the time. They said he was left with sufficient 
emergency funds of £40,000 as cash. 
As Mr L remained unhappy, the case came to our service for an independent review. Our 
investigator looked into it but didnt feel there was enough evidence to conclude that the 
advice was unsuitable. She said that she couldnt conclude that the advisor was aware of 
any health issues with Mr L. She felt that there was sufficient cash for emergencies left and 
that the recommendation matched Mr Ls recorded attitude to risk of medium. 
Mr L didnt accept this view and responded through his CMC to say that sufficient probing 
would have shown that he was retired early through ill-health. The CMC acknowledged that 
Mr L had prior investment experience but still felt the advice exposed him to too much risk 
than he was prepared to take. The investigator asked for more information to support a lower 
risk rating of Mr L, but the CMC wasnt able to provide anything. They did state that Mr L had 
recently experienced a change in circumstances and moved into a new property, meaning 
there was a higher likelihood he would have unexpected costs. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ls circumstances at the point of sale, were that he was 64 years old and retired. He was 
single and divorced, with no dependants. He was recorded as owning his own home and not 
having any mortgage or liabilities. He had a monthly disposable income of £100,        
£90,000 held in cash deposits and £138,000 in existing investments. 
Mr L was recorded as wanting to achieve a balanced portfolio and centralise a majority of his 
holdings. He had a primary objective of producing additional income to enhance his standard 
of living in retirement. As well as potentially achieving higher growth than he had from his 
existing savings and investments. I believe the advice given matched these objectives. 
Mr L was recorded as wanting to meet those objectives, with a medium level attitude to risk. 
The CMC has disputed this categorisation but hasnt provided anything further to support 
that it was lower. I have considered Mr Ls previous investment experience (unit trusts and 
ISAs), his circumstances at the time (no liabilities to service or dependents) and his objective 
of higher growth. And I think this risk rating seems fair. 
Mr L has challenged whether he had enough capacity for loss that the investment could 
have brought about, and as such it wasnt a suitable recommendation. However, whilst I 
understand the comments of a previous change in circumstances and that buying a new 
home might have encountered a need for sudden expenditure, I think the advice given left 
Mr L with sufficient cash reserves (approximately £40,000) to meet what could have been 
reasonably expected. 
The CMC has said that Barclays werent aware of Mr Ls health issues and that this shows 
they didnt do enough to know their client. However, we cant be sure what was discussed at 
the time. Even though this wasnt recorded, I dont believe that makes the advice unsuitable 
and Mr Ls retired status was correctly noted. 
In summary, I think the recommendation was suitable and Barclays acted fairly. I think the 
advice matched Mr Ls objectives and attitude to risk at the time. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman