DRN-4447568
The complaint
Miss A has complained to us about the irresponsible sale of loans given by Loans 2 Go 
Limited (Loans 2 Go).
What happened
Miss A has complained about three loans: £700 over a proposed term of 18 months at 
£159.99 per month in November 2019, £1351.98 over a proposed term of 24 months at 
£222.63 per month in April 2021 and £300 over a proposed term of 18 months at £61.67 a 
month in April 2022.
Loans 2 Go thought the lending decisions were reasonable. Miss A didnt agree and brought 
her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at everything provided and 
thought that this was a complaint that we couldnt uphold. Miss A objected to the outcome 
reached by the investigator. So, the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Loans 2 Go will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss As complaint is that Loans 2 Go made loans available that were unaffordable. Loans 2 
Go has explained that it relied in part on information that Miss A provided at the times of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out credit searches in Miss As 
name to assess Miss As level of debt at the times of each lending decision and to 
understand how she had been managing that debt. With that information and using their 
own scoring metric, Loans 2 Go decided to agree to the three loans Miss A is complaining 
about. 
The Loans 2 Go checks showed that Miss A had only modest amounts of other borrowings 
both in themselves and when compared to her declared income and expenditure at the 
times of each lending decision. 
And I have noted that Miss As credit file was reasonably clean at the time of each loan 
application. When I say this, I mean that Miss As management of her existing credit showed 
no recent history of CCJs, defaults or any late payments. So, the information that Loans 2 
Go had presented to it and which it acquired, suggested that at the time the lending 
decisions were made, Miss A was affording her existing credit. 
Having considered the above, I dont think that the information that Loans 2 Go had at the 
time of the lending decision, would have led them to feel they ought to make more searching 
enquiries of Miss As financial situation. So, Loans 2 Go were not put on notice of any 
reason not to agree any of the loans it agreed to from any of the above. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Loans 2 Go at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. I have seen insufficient evidence that the other 
information that Loans 2 Go acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decisions, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Miss As 
expenditure more closely. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the loans Loans 2 Go provided to Miss A were unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman