DRN-3584668
The complaint
Mr B complains that the amount Skyfire Insurance Company Limited has offered to settle his 
motor insurance claim is too low.
References to Skyfire include its agents.
What happened
In mid-2021, Mr B made a claim under his motor insurance policy with Skyfire, after his car 
was damaged in an accident. 
 
Skyfire determined that the pre-accident market value of Mr Bs vehicle was £6,001 using an 
average of three industry trade guides. However, it offered to settle Mr Bs claim based on a 
market value of £6,500. 
Mr B was unhappy with Skyfires valuation, so he asked our service to consider his 
complaint. He provided a valuation hed obtained online from an industry trade guide and an 
advert for a vehicle of the same make and model as the one he was claiming for. 
Our investigator thought Skyfires settlement offer was fair, but Mr B disagreed with her view. 
He said he didnt trust the trade guides Skyfire had used for the valuations. He thought his 
settlement should be based on the valuation hed provided, which he believes to be from a 
more reputable company. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policys terms and conditions say Skyfire will settle your claim by paying you money if 
your car is a total loss. They go on to say: The insurer will not pay more than the market 
value of your car at the time of the loss or damage, less total excesses and any unpaid 
premium.
Market value is defined as the cost of replacing your car with one of a similar make, 
model, age, mileage and condition based on market prices at the time of the accident or 
loss. This may not be the same price you originally paid for your car or the value you 
declared on the Statement of Fact.
Skyfire says it used four industry trade guides to assess the pre-accident market value of   
Mr Bs vehicle. Its provided screenshots of the valuations which are £4,875, £5,980, £5,935 
and £6,090. Skyfire disregarded the lowest guide price and based its valuation on an 
average of the remaining three. Skyfire says it increased the valuation from £6,001 to £6,500 
in an effort to resolve matters for Mr B.
I think its reasonable for the market value to be assessed as the retail price Mr B would 
have to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer. The fairest way of doing this is 
by using the standard industry guides. These are based on extensive national research of 
likely selling prices. They can provide valuations based on the make, model, age, condition 
and specification of a car. 
Mr B has provided a screenshot of a valuation from another industry guide which he believes 
to be more reputable. This gives a valuation of £10,310 for private and £11,470 - £12,680 
for dealer. However, the screenshot is showing a mileage of 14,000 which is much lower 
than the mileage for Mr Bs vehicle which is showing as 144,051 on the engineers report. 
Our service uses the same industry guides Skyfire used for vehicle valuations. In addition, 
weve recently started to consider the trade guide that Mr B believes to be more reputable. 
Ive reviewed this guide, and this has given a valuation of £5,981 for Mr Bs vehicle at the 
time of the loss. So, I think Skyfires decision to base the settlement on a valuation of £6,500 
is fair and reasonable. This is higher than the valuations from all of the trade guides 
considered, including the one Mr B considers to be most reputable.
Mr B has also provided an advert for a car which was on sale for £12,995, which he says 
has the same specification as his. However, this advert isnt very detailed and doesnt show 
the year or mileage of the car. Skyfire has provided an advert for a car of the same make, 
model and year as Mr Bs, with a similar mileage to it, with an advertised price of £6,200. Its 
also worth mentioning that the advertised price of a car is often higher than the market value 
because a dealer will build in a margin for negotiation. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr B. But having considered everything, I think 
Skyfire has acted fairly in determining the pre-accident value of the car and has offered to 
settle the claim in line with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman