DRN-2709111
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander UK Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr and Mrs W. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly-premium PPI policy, taken out in 2010 to cover a personal 
loan. Mr and Mrs W bought the policy during an online application process for applying for 
the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive looked at the possible ways in which the PPI might have been mis-sold, but I havent 
found good evidence to say Santander acted wrongly:
Ive seen screenshots of the online application process, and it was clear that taking 
the PPI was a matter of choice.
Santander didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Ws individual needs. It made this clear on the application screen. Also, 
as it was an online process, there clearly wouldnt have been a discussion, nor 
impression Santander was giving advice. This means it didnt have to check if the 
PPI fitted Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances. It was up to Mr and Mr W to decide that.
I think there was enough information for Mr and Mrs W to understand what they were 
choosing to buy  and I dont think fuller information in their circumstances is likely to 
have made the PPI seem any less useful potentially. 
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. 
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because Santander 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman