DRN-2712624
The complaint
Mr J and Miss J complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) caused Miss J to 
miss an important deadline to bring her case to an employment tribunal. She would like to be 
compensated for her lost opportunity and the legal fees she incurred. 
Where I refer to RSA, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
For ease of reading, Ill mainly only refer to Miss J throughout.  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events. Miss J has the benefit of insurance for certain legal 
expenses which is provided by RSA. In February 2020 Miss J resigned from her job. In April 
2020 she contacted RSA as she wanted to make a claim for legal expenses in relation to 
taking action against her former employer.
Miss Js claim form recorded that she already had her own solicitor who she wanted to 
continue to use. RSA gathered further information about the claim and ultimately appointed a 
panel solicitor L to assess the prospects of success (which is a requirement for cover under 
the policy) of Miss Js intended legal action. 
In June 2020 L advised that they thought Miss Js claim had around a 40% chance of 
success. This was communicated to Miss J who provided some further context to her claim. 
Based on this RSA asked L to reconsider their advice. L did so and reported that they now 
considered the prospects of success to be 51%. 
RSA took some steps to progress the claim but they then found out that an important 
limitation date for the tribunal process had been missed on 6 July 2020. This had already 
passed by the time they received the updated advice from L. As such they declined to take 
any further action. Miss J complained. She says that if L had got it right the first time, her 
claim would have been made in time. 
RSA considered the claim but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They said theyd 
progressed the claim in a timely manner and had advised Miss J to protect her position when 
the deadline was imminent. 
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt recommend 
that it should be upheld. He thought RSA had acted fairly in the circumstances. Miss J 
disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for very similar reasons. I know this will be 
disappointing for Miss J, so Ill explain why. 
The policy requires that any claim has a reasonable chance of winning and achieving a 
reasonable outcome. This is generally accepted to mean that the intended legal action has a 
51% or greater chance of success. This requirement is common to nearly all policies of this 
type and I dont think this is unfair. RSA are an insurer and not legal experts, so I think its 
fair for them to rely on legal advice when making decisions about a claim. 
When L said that Miss Js claim didnt have the required prospects, RSA shared this with 
her. I think it was fair for RSA to rely on that initial advice from L. Sometimes, if legal advice 
is very obviously wrong (where a layperson could be expected to notice) it might not be fair 
for an insurer to rely on it  but here, I dont think that is the case. And when Miss J 
submitted further information, RSA passed that on to L and asked them to consider whether 
it made a difference. Again, this is what Id expect them to do. 
Miss J has argued that RSA are responsible for what she believes to be an error by L. I cant 
comment on the actions of solicitors. And even when L were conducting a prospects 
assessment, this doesnt make RSA responsible for the quality of the legal advice provided. 
Ive covered above that the initial legal advice wasnt obviously wrong and I maintain that it 
was fair for RSA to rely on it. 
I also dont agree that RSA are responsible for any unreasonable delays in their overall 
handling of the claim. Theyve typically responded within their agreed service level of five 
working days. 
Its clear from the correspondence at the relevant time that Miss J was aware of the 
importance of the 6 July 2020. She chased RSA for updates and highlighted this date to 
them. On 6 July 2020 RSA advised Miss J to speak to her solicitor and to protect her 
position in relation to the deadline. They said that if the further assessment was positive, 
they would be able to backdate cover to when proceedings were issued. Miss J says she felt 
unable to take the necessary action herself (due to the complexity involved) and didnt have 
funds at the time to use a solicitor. She says she was reliant on RSA confirming cover before 
she could do so. 
Whilst I have sympathy with Miss Js financial position, I dont think RSA did anything wrong 
that caused the relevant date to be missed. If Miss J felt unable to take the required action to 
protect her legal position without professional assistance, I dont think this is something that 
RSA are responsible for. I also note that the policy provides a free legal advice helpline that 
Miss J could have called for guidance. 
Even if I thought RSA were directly responsible for delays (which for clarity I dont), I still 
wouldnt expect them to compensate Miss J in the way she would like. This is because she 
knowingly allowed the deadline to pass and Im not persuaded she couldnt have done more 
to mitigate the situation. Ultimately as I dont think RSA are responsible for the deadline 
being missed, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can ask them to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman