DRN-2062389
The complaint
Mr E complains about the amount of interest Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as Moneyway 
(Moneyway), have charged him on a finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr E, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the finance should not have been mis-sold 
to Mr E. So, if he wasnt told something and that led him to enter a finance agreement he 
wouldnt have otherwise signed up, Id think the agreement had been misrepresented to him 
and Id ask Moneyway to do something about it.
Its for Moneyway to set the interest rate. Thats an operational decision they are free to 
make and the interest rate they offer will, most likely, reflect the risk they see in advancing 
credit. Here, Mr E was quite young and wouldnt have had much credit history. So, I can 
understand the APR offered may have been higher than usual.
Im not persuaded here that there is sufficient evidence to suggest Mr E hadnt been told 
about the interest he would be paying on the finance agreement. I say that because:
the interest charged and the APR are clearly stated on the front page of the hire 
purchase agreement. Theyre not hidden in the small print;
Mr E has signed the finance agreement and hes therefore confirmed hes read and 
agreed to the terms contained in it;
Mr E didnt complain about the interest rate for three years and I think its most likely 
he would have noticed how much he was paying and raised his concerns about the 
interest earlier if it wasnt what he had agreed to when the finance was established in 
2016.
I understand Mr E says he didnt receive a copy of the agreement and that its not his 
signature on it. 
Im not persuaded its likely he didnt receive a copy of the agreement. Its usual for the 
dealership to give this to the consumer and its usual for the finance company to send a copy 
to the consumer within the first few days. I think thats likely to have happened as, if it didnt, 
I think its most likely Mr E would have asked for a copy and not have waited for so long 
before contesting how much he was being asked to pay each month.
Whilst I understand Mr E doesnt think the signature on the finance agreement is his Im not 
persuaded thats most likely to be the case. Im not a handwriting expert and I dont think it 
would be fair for me to make any findings about whether the signature on Mr Es passport is 
the same as that on the finance agreement. I think, on balance, the signature on the finance 
agreement is most likely to be Mr Es as I think the business would not have access to a 
signature they could forge had they wished to do so.
So, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to suggest that this finance deal was 
misrepresented to Mr E and Im not asking Moneyway to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman