DRN-4137040
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a fee-
paying FlexPlus account in August 2016.
Mr C says that he took out the account to take advantage of the travel insurance provided by 
the account for an upcoming trip. Mr C later discovered that his travel was not covered by 
the policy because his trip duration was longer than the trip duration limit of the policy.
Mr C is also unhappy that his claim on the travel insurance for a later trip was declined.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they concluded that the FlexPlus 
account had not been mis-sold. She also explained that the insurer, not Nationwide, is 
responsible for how the travel insurance claim was dealt with.
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having done so, Im unable to say that 
the FlexPlus account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Firstly, in relation to Mr Cs dissatisfaction about how his claim was handled, as both 
Nationwide and the adjudicator have explained, his concerns about how his claim was 
handled will need to be considered against the insurer, as the insurer (not Nationwide) is 
responsible for how claims are handled. Therefore, although Mr C has provided a fair 
amount of evidence as to why he believes the insurer is not applying the terms of the 
insurance policy correctly to his claim, I cant comment on that aspect of Mr Cs complaint in 
this decision, as this complaint is against Nationwide.
Turning now to the sale of the account, from what I have seen, it was sold on a non-advised 
basis. This means that Nationwide was not required to assess Mr Cs insurance needs and it 
was not required to check that the account was a good fit for his circumstances. 
As such, it was up to Mr C to determine whether the travel insurance included with the 
FlexPlus account was suitable for his travel plans. To do this, Nationwide was required to 
give Mr C the important information about the account and the associated benefits, so that 
he could determine for himself whether the various insurance benefits that it came with 
suited his needs. So I have considered whether Mr C was presented with the important 
information about the FlexPlus travel insurance  amongst which, included the key 
limitations and exclusions of the policy.
Mr C has, rather confusingly, said that how the account was sold to him is not an issue 
(although based on what his complaint is about, and his repeated references to it being mis-
sold  it clearly is). Nevertheless, he says that he agreed to the terms and conditions of the 
account that were presented to him. And Nationwide has explained that its sales processes 
at the time wouldve required the member of staff to have explained the cost of the account, 
the eligibility criteria for the insurance benefits, and highlighted the key terms and exclusions 
and the cancellation rights. I understand that this also included providing Mr C with a 
summary of the insurance products included with the account.
Looking at the travel insurance documentation that is available from the time, it does appear 
that the trip duration limit of 31 days was contained in the FlexPlus Travel insurance 
summary documentation. So Im satisfied that it wasnt just buried in the small print of the 
policy wording, but was sufficiently highlighted under the key features and exclusions 
contained within the summary of cover. And as it seems likely, based on what Nationwide 
and Mr C have said, that Mr C was provided with this documentation during the sale of the 
account, overall, I think that Nationwide in all likelihood did what it was required to do to draw 
this limitation of the travel insurance to Mr Cs attention during the sale of the account. 
Furthermore, I understand that Mr C was also sent a welcome pack. This was so that he was 
able to double check the various levels of cover he had in place. Again, this looks to have 
provided a summary of the travel insurance which pointed out that cover was provided for 
trips up to 31 days in length, although it explained that a trip limit upgrade could be 
purchased for longer trips. So I think Mr C was given a reasonable amount of information 
(and time) so that he was able to check that the travel cover provided by the FlexPlus 
account provided the level of cover he needed, before he departed on his trip. 
I appreciate that Mr C may not have read through the documentation that he was provided 
with and may not now recall the trip duration limit being discussed during the sale. But I think 
that Nationwide did what it was required to do in terms of providing Mr C with the important 
information about the FlexPlus Travel insurance cover. As such, Im unable to say that the 
FlexPlus account was mis-sold. Because of this, Im unable to say that Nationwide should 
refund the monthly account fees that Mr C paid for the account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman