DRN-1433934
 
The complaint
Ms B applied for a mortgage with Legal & General Home Finance Limited (L&G). Shes 
unhappy with the conduct of the surveyor appointed to value the property, that her 
application was declined, and the content of a letter which she says is libellous.
What happened
Ms B applied through a mortgage broker for a lifetime mortgage with L&G.
A surveyor visited the property to complete a mortgage valuation, and Ms B says things the 
surveyor said to her turned out not to be true. I wont go into any detail about what Ms B has 
told us the surveyor said, or why that conversation came about, to protect Ms Bs privacy; 
suffice to say Ive read and understood everything.
Once the valuation report was received L&G wrote to Ms Bs broker saying the property had 
been valued at less than Ms B expected, and so the maximum loan amount had been 
reduced. Following that L&G spoke to Ms Bs broker and said that it wasn't able to proceed 
with the application (even with a lower loan amount) as the property wasn't suitable security 
for the mortgage. The broker asked that the decision be reviewed, and the following week 
L&G wrote to the broker to say it had been referred to a technical underwriter and the 
decision to decline the application would stand, with a short explanation why. It was the 
content of this letter that Ms B says is libellous.
Ms B complained to L&G. It rejected the main thrust of the complaint, but apologised for any 
offence caused by the letter. It also offered £50 compensation for any upset caused.
Ms B brought her complaint to us, and our investigator said we couldn't deal with a complaint 
about the surveyor, only about L&Gs acts or omissions. And having considered everything 
he thought L&G hadn't done anything wrong in declining the application.
Ms B didn't agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Ms B wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file 
Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome. In her response to our investigators assessment Ms B raised various concerns. Id like to 
reassure her that Ive read her letter in full, but in this decision I can only deal with her 
complaint about L&G; thats all Im allowed to do under our remit. 
L&G doesn't have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a surveyor. 
When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement that was 
fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of RICS. L&Gs not accountable for the conduct 
of the individual surveyor or any act (or omission) by the surveyor or the firm she works for. 
So I cant consider any of Ms Bs complaint about what the surveyor said to her or the report 
the surveyor compiled.
L&G is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didn't do); we cant consider complaints 
against it for things a separate business did (or didn't do). All I can consider against L&G is if 
it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors, and having considered 
everything Im satisfied it did. 
The surveyor is a suitably qualified professional and L&G was entitled to rely on her advice 
and opinion. Whilst initially L&G was considering continuing with the application, albeit with a 
lower maximum loan amount, the following day it reviewed matters and decided the property 
wasn't suitable security and so declined the application. Those were both decisions L&G 
was entitled to make, and aren't something Id interfere with. I understand Ms B believes 
otherwise, but the first letter (mentioning the lower maximum loan amount) didn't bind L&G 
to proceeding with the mortgage application. It was simply a letter to the broker explaining 
the maximum loan amount had been reduced, it wasn't a formal mortgage offer. 
Finally, Ms B is unhappy about the letter sent to her broker about the decision to decline the 
application. In its final response letter L&G apologised for the upset caused, and reassured 
Ms B that the letter writer wouldn't have intended to cause her any offence. It also offered 
£50 compensation. Having considered everything I find that to be a fair resolution and so 
dont order L&G to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman