DRN-3883676
The complaint
Ms E complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (NewDay) was irresponsible when it
increased the limit on her credit card on three occasions.
What happened
NewDay opened a credit card account for Ms E in April 2018 in with a credit limit of £450.
This type of credit was an open-ended or running account facility. NewDay subsequently
increased Ms Es credit limit to: £1,450 in August 2020; £2,950 in December 2020 and
£4,450 in April 2021.
Ms E said that her initial credit limit of £450 was manageable. She was offered an
increase to £1,450 which she accepted over the phone. Later credit increases were
automatically applied. Ms E said she very quickly reached her credit limit on the card and
struggled to meet her repayments. She eventually took out a bank loan to clear the
balance, and I understand that by July 2022 the account had been closed. Ms E
complained to NewDay that it should not have increased her credit limit and requested a
refund of all interest payments plus compensation from December 2020 to when she
closed the account.
NewDay didnt uphold Ms Es complaint. It said it reviews a customers account alongside
external credit reference agency (CRA) data and if it feels a credit limit increase is suitable,
then one will be offered. In this instance letters were sent to Ms E prior to each increase
providing her with the option to opt out, which she didnt. NewDay didnt uphold Ms Es
complaint.
Ms E brought her complaint to us. Our investigator assessed the complaint and found that
NewDay should have gone further in its affordability checks each time it increased her credit
limit. They concluded that, had proportionate checks been carried out at the time of the
second increase in December 2020, NewDay would have learnt that Ms E wasnt likely to be
able to repay further credit without difficulty and wouldnt have increased her limit above
£1,450. They recommended that NewDay pays Ms E compensation for this.
NewDay disagreed with our investigators recommendation and the complaint came to me, 
as an ombudsman, to review and resolve. On review, I found that NewDay hadnt been 
irresponsible to lend to Ms E. I sent out a provisional decision on 30 November 2022 
explaining why I didnt plan to uphold Ms Es complaint. I allowed some time for both parties 
to comment on what Id said or provide any further information they wished me to consider. 
I havent had a response from NewDay, but Ms E responded to explain why she didnt agree 
with my provisional conclusion and to provide some new information for me to consider 
when making my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered what Ms E said and the new information she 
provided in response to my provisional decision, I am still of the view that her complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing news for Ms E and I am 
sorry that this isnt the outcome she was hoping for. Ill set out again my reasons for not 
upholding her complaint in this final decision on the matter and Ill refer to Ms Es recent 
communication where appropriate. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and 
guidance on responsible lending (set out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which 
lenders, such as NewDay, need to abide by. NewDay will be aware of these, and our 
approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations 
in detail here but will summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement or increasing the credit available under an existing 
agreement, NewDay needed to check that Ms E could afford to repay the credit out of her 
usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without having to borrow further and 
without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The checks needed 
to be proportionate to the nature of the credit, for example the amount offered, and Ms Es 
particular circumstances.
With this in mind, my considerations are did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate
checks when it increased Ms Es credit limit to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay
the credit offered within a reasonable period of time? If it didnt do this, what would
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did NewDay make fair
lending decisions?
When NewDay increased Ms Es credit limits it said that it took into account how shed been
managing her account and any other debts she had. It provided the information it relied on,
and Ive reviewed this. The information shows that Ms E used the credit available to her prior
to each increase. She generally made the minimum payment, except for some months in
2020 and towards the end of 2021. Ms E incurred overlimit fees in three months in 2018, ten
months in 2019 and five months in 2020. The CRA information NewDay had showed that 
Ms Es external debt was approximately £1,500 before December 2020, and it increased 
steadily from then up to about £5,000 in December 2021 and to over £8,000 by June 2022.
Credit limit increases in 2020
In the months before August 2020 Ms E had been making more than the minimum
payment and her account balance had decreased to just over £200. The CRA information
NewDay obtained showed that Ms E had balances of about £1,000 on other accounts,
including revolving credit accounts. It also showed that Ms E had two public records 
according to the full credit file shes provided the most recent of these was from June
2018 over two years prior.
Ms E had given her income as £25,000, or about £1,700 a month when she opened the
account in 2018. The amount of credit NewDay was now offering wasnt so large relative to
her means that it was unlikely shed be able to repay it within a reasonable period of time.
Although Ms E had some adverse information on her credit file it wasnt recent enough to
suggest that she was having current difficulties managing her money. Altogether, Ive
concluded that NewDay wasnt irresponsible when it offered Ms E this credit limit increase 
on the basis of the information it had.When NewDay increased the credit limit from £1,450 to £2,950 in December 2020, the 
account balance was over £1,400. Ms E had been making the minimum payment for several
months and had incurred an overlimit fee in September. Given these circumstances, and
that the credit increase was significant at over twice Ms Es existing limit, I think NewDay
ought to have taken steps to look into Ms Es finances in more detail before offering more
credit.
Ms E has provided bank statements for her current account and Ive reviewed these to get
an understanding of what NewDay might have found out had it carried out proportionate
checks. As mentioned, Ms E has also provided a copy of her credit file. To be clear, Im
not suggesting this is what NewDay ought to have done but, in the absence of any other
evidence such as payslips, benefit letters or rent or mortgage statements for example, I
think this information is a reasonable proxy.
Ms Es statements show that her income was approximately £2,000 from wages and child-
related benefits. Regular transactions (for example for what seems to be food, petrol, rent
and child-related costs) come to approximately £1,100 and Ms E spent about £200
repaying existing debt including credit card and debt collectors. The remainder was spent
on purchases either directly or, for example, with catalogue and buy now pay later 
companies.
As mentioned, Ms E had two public records. These were county court judgements (CCJs)
- one from 2018 of about £960, the other from July 2016 of over £8,000. Ms Es provided
a statement of the latter from September 2022 which shows that shed been paying £80 a
month towards this and the balance was £4,322. Ive also noted that Ms Es credit file
shows a default of around £300 from May 2019, being repaid at £10 a month.
Having given this careful consideration, Ive concluded that this information would not have 
led NewDay to decline further credit for Ms E. It seemed Ms E would have enough left over 
after meeting her regular living costs and repaying her existing debts that she would be able 
to meet her credit card repayments and was likely to be able to repay the credit borrowed 
over a reasonable period of time. While Ms E had incurred two CCJs, these were from 
several years ago and, as I understand it, were being repaid. I appreciate Ms E had a more 
recent default but this happened more than a year prior to this credit increase and was also 
being repaid.
Altogether, I havent concluded that NewDay was irresponsible to offer Ms E more credit on 
this occasion.
Ms E said in response to my provisional decision that she had been making only minimum 
payments until this point and her account balance was increasing so she doesnt think its 
fair that NewDay doubled her credit limit. I can understand Ms Es perspective on this point 
however, I dont think NewDay ought to have automatically declined further credit for Ms E 
on the basis of how she was managing her account or the CRA information it had gathered. 
Ms E hadnt been making minimum payments to the extent that NewDay ought have acted in 
line with the regulations around persistent credit card debt (set out in CONC 6). However, as 
Ive explained, I have concluded that NewDay ought to have looked into Ms Es 
circumstances in more depth before increasing her credit limit to check that she would be 
able to repay the credit offered within a reasonable time and without experiencing financial 
difficulty. But, based on what it was likely to have found out, Ive concluded that further 
checks wouldnt have led NewDay to refuse Ms E a credit increase at that time and so I cant 
find it was irresponsible to have done so.  Ms E also said in her response to my provisional findings that when she was granted the 
credit increase in December 2020 (and again in 2021), she wasnt asked if she required it 
and the opt-out button on the software application didnt work. Ms E explained that at the 
time of the previous increase from £450 to £1,450 (August 2020) she had to call NewDay to 
accept the increase because the button that said click to accept didnt work. 
I think if Ms E hadnt wanted to accept later increases she could have taken similar action 
and gotten in touch with NewDay by other means. NewDay provided copies of the letters 
sent to Ms E regarding the credit card increases which provide information about how to opt 
out via telephone. I havent concluded that NewDay got anything wrong regarding how it 
informed Ms E of the increases or how to accept or decline these. 
Credit limit increase in 2021
When NewDay offered Ms E another credit increase in April 2021, her account balance had
doubled as had her external debts. Ms E had been making the minimum payment for
almost a year. Shed had the account for three years at that point, hadnt made any
inroads into the debt and was spending up to her limit. As before, I think NewDay should
have looked into Ms Es circumstances further before offering more credit to check that
she had the means to repay the credit within a reasonable period of time.
Ms E hadnt provided her bank statements for these months prior to my provisional decision 
and I didnt have enough information to consider what NewDay might have found out about 
her circumstances through a proportional check. Id provisionally concluded that NewDay 
wasnt irresponsible to offer Ms E further credit in 2021. 
Ms E has now provided her bank statements for 2021 and I have reviewed these, alongside 
all the other information available to me.
Ms E said that at the time of this increase she had more going out than coming in and by 
increasing her credit limit NewDay would have been aware that she would need to make 
higher minimum payments. I have borne in mind that not only did NewDay need to check 
that Ms E would be able to meet her minimum repayments, it needed to check that she 
would be able to repay the debt within a reasonable period of time and without experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
The bank statements show Ms Es circumstances hadnt changed significantly since late 
2020. Her income and outgoings were similar and it seems that she would have enough 
disposable income to be able to repay the credit within a reasonable period of time while 
meeting her usual living costs and existing commitments, including payments to her historic 
debt via debt collectors. I appreciate that Ms Es overall debt had increased -  I can see from 
her bank statements that she was meeting her repayments for this and I havent seen any 
adverse information on her credit file from this time. As before, Ms Es bank statements 
show that she was continuing to spend money on purchases, either directly or through 
catalogues and buy now pay later companies. 
I dont think NewDay would have declined further credit for Ms E at this time, had it seen this 
information, as it seems she was meeting her regular living costs and her existing 
commitments. Altogether, I cant say that NewDay was irresponsible to have offered Ms E 
this credit limit increase. 
Ms E told us that she put a lot of pressure on herself to meet her payments for this account 
in order to make sure it didnt have a negative impact on her credit report. Shes said that it 
made life very difficult for her and she eventually took out a bank loan to clear the balance. I 
dont doubt what Ms Es told us about her circumstances and Im sorry to hear things have been so difficult for her. As Ive explained, although Ive found that NewDays checks werent 
proportionate for the credit limit increases it offered Ms E in December 2020 and in 2021, I 
havent concluded that further checks would or should have led it to decline further credit for 
her. And so I am not upholding Ms Es complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I am not upholding Ms Es complaint about NewDay Ltd 
trading as Aqua.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman