DRN-3501510
The complaint
Mr H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) have failed to refund over £17,000 he lost as 
part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr H authorised the disputed payments he made to Moonpay, 
Crypto.com and Coinbase using his Monzo debit card (where his funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammers from his crypto wallets). The payments 
were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by Monzo, 
and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to prevent Mr H 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. However, having taken 
Mr Hs account activity and limited payment history into account, I do not think the 
payments he is disputing should have been regarded as particularly unusual.
I appreciate that overall, Mr H has lost over £17,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character 
transaction. It was spread over several smaller increments which, in my judgment, 
would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared 
with Mr Hs limited spending history with Monzo, such that they ought to have been 
regarded as suspicious or indicating that he might have been at risk of falling victim 
to a scam. The payments were not of such a large amount, for example, that they 
would represent a significant deviation from what would be considered as usual 
activity. His Monzo account was relatively new, so there was little history to compare 
the payments to in order to conclude that they were out of character. 
So, having considered the payments Mr H made, Im not persuaded there was 
anything that ought reasonably to have triggered Monzos fraud monitoring systems, 
or that would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed. I therefore do 
not consider there to have been any obligation on Monzo to have intervened under 
any of the codes Mr H has cited. 
Ive also thought about whether Monzo did enough to attempt to recover the money 
Mr H lost, as there are some instances where debit card transactions can be 
refunded through making a chargeback claim. But in this case, a chargeback would 
not have been successful, as the transactions Mr H used his debit card for was to 
pay Moonpay, Coinbase and Crypto.com for the purchase of cryptocurrency, which 
he duly received. The money was subsequently lost from the crypto platform when 
he transferred the funds to the scammer. So, he could not claim that he did not 
receive the goods or services paid for from his Monzo account, which was the 
purchase of the cryptocurrency. As a result, I dont think Monzo have acted 
unreasonably by failing to pursue a chargeback claim here. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Monzo can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman