DRN-3443332
The complaint
Mr S complains about charges and credit file reports Ald Automotive Limited (Ald) made 
after he believed he had returned a car he was hiring through a finance agreement with 
them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ald, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Failure to terminate the agreement
Its clear that it wasnt Mr Ss fault that his old finance agreement was not terminated. I say 
that because the dealership have accepted responsibility for not telling Ald. I dont think it 
would be fair to hold Mr S responsible for the failed termination on the basis that he didnt 
return the settlement quotation form. He clearly expected the dealership to settle the 
agreement for him, in the same way he explained they have done in the past.
Reporting of missed payments to Mr Ss credit file
I dont think Ald did anything wrong when they initially reported missed payments against   
Mr Ss original agreement as they werent aware the car had been returned. But by at least 
20 December 2020 I think they were aware the car had been returned. I say that because I 
can see the dealership called them at that point to enquire about the status of the car. As the 
dealership had the car then I think its reasonable to suggest that Ald would have been made 
aware it had been returned.
Mr S has also explained that he was trying to contact Ald without success during the period 
his payments were being taken and after he thought hed terminated the arrangement. Hes 
not been able to provide calls or emails prior to January 2021 as he sent them from a 
previous employers address and phone. Im persuaded, on balance, that it is likely he tried 
to contact Ald during that period as an email he sent to them in January 2021 explains he 
cant get hold of them and that hes trying to reclaim his December payment. Mr S has 
been able to provide call logs that show extensive attempts to contact Ald between January 
and March 2021. I think its likely there would have been at least some calls made before 
that, as Mr S has suggested.
I understand that Ald were operating under pandemic restrictions during the time in question 
and I dont doubt that would have impacted on their ability to correspond with their 
customers as well as they would have wanted to. But this activity was during the second and 
third national lockdown period and I think its fair to suggest that by then Ald would have had 
the procedures in place to allow them to communicate effectively. It follows that I dont think 
it's reasonable to suggest pandemic restrictions prevented Ald from communicating more 
effectively with Mr S.
Mr S stopped making payments towards all three agreements and Ive thought about 
whether he could have handled that better. I dont think he could have. Mr S has explained 
that instalments towards all three agreements were being collected under a single direct 
debit. I think, as Ive already mentioned, that its clear he was struggling to get in touch with 
Ald. If he had been able to get in touch he would been able to get his old agreement 
cancelled. And as he couldnt get in touch with Ald he couldnt arrange to make payments 
only towards the agreements that were live, so I think it was reasonable for him to cancel the 
whole direct debit.
Ald have a responsibility to report Mr Ss credit performance accurately to the credit 
reference agencies. I dont think the reports theyve made, and that Mr S has shown us were 
recorded on his file, are now an accurate record. I think they were accrued as a result of the 
failure of the dealership to terminate the agreement and Alds failure to respond to and 
communicate with Mr S.
Ald should therefore remove all of the missed payment markers they placed on Mr Ss credit 
file in relation to all three agreements.
Consequential losses
Mr S made a mortgage application in February 2022 and has provided evidence from his 
broker and from the mortgage company that suggests it may have been declined because of 
the missed payment markers reported on his credit file by Ald.
Ive reviewed the credit file from that time and can see there were no other adverse markers 
on the file.
Ald say they had no responsibility to remove the markers whilst Mr Ss complaint was 
progressing as if there was a need to subsequently reapply them they could be accused of 
misreporting. I dont think that argument is reasonable. I think by the time the dealership 
accepted responsibility for not completing the termination of the agreement it was very clear 
Mr S couldnt be held responsible for the payments, at least on that account. It would 
therefore have been better for Ald to have removed the markers, at least on that account, at 
that point.Mr S would like Ald to compensate him for costs he incurred in making the failed mortgage 
application and for costs associated with having to take out a mortgage on less favourable 
terms. 
I dont think it would be fair to tell Ald to cover all of those costs as I think Mr S could have 
mitigated some of them. I think for instance, that he could have made some arrangements to 
manually pay the agreements he knew were in place at the time. 
Ald have already paid Mr S some compensation in respect of delays in collecting the car 
and, having taken all of the circumstances into account, I think they should pay Mr S an 
additional £750 to compensate him for the poor communication he received around 
termination, their failure to remove the credit markers earlier and the costs Mr S incurred, in 
part, as a consequence of their actions.
Putting things right
Ald should remove any missed payment markers they have reported towards Mr Ss 
agreements since 14 October 2020 when his new agreement started.
They will also need to pay Mr S £750 in compensation for the reasons Ive already set out 
above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Ald Automotive Limited to:
Remove any missed payment markers they have reported towards Mr Ss 
agreements since 14 October 2020 when his new agreement started.
Pay Mr S £750 in compensation for the distress, inconvenience, and consequential 
costs hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman