DRN-2374307
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Aegon Scottish Equitable Plc. He was given incorrect 
information when he withdrew funds from a pension policy he held with them. He received a 
lower value than he expected and so he says he has lost out as a result.
What happened
Mr M held a pension with Aegon. He contacted them on 16 March 2020 saying that he was 
concerned about the value of the pension. The call handler he spoke with told him the fund 
value from the previous day was £27,043.48. When he asked what value he would receive if 
he withdrew his funds, he was told he would get that value or the next days value.
Mr M made an online withdrawal request later that day. His funds were disinvested on 18 
March 2020 and after the trade settled, he was paid the gross sum of £25,841.72. This was 
less than he expected, and he made a complaint.
Aegon upheld the complaint. It accepted that he hadnt been given a correct explanation of 
how the withdrawal process worked when he called. However, it said that the withdrawal had 
been processed correctly and he had received the value he was entitled to. It paid him £200 
for the distress and inconvenience caused but didnt accept there was financial loss.
Mr M didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. It was considered by an 
investigator who concluded that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She explained that 
although Aegon had provided incorrect information, it had processed the withdrawal in line 
with its terms and conditions. These set out that sales would be made within the next two 
trading windows after it received the instruction to withdraw. This would typically be within 48 
hours. This sale had been made on 18 March 2020. 
The investigator accepted that there would have been some loss of expectation, but she felt 
the offer of £200 was fair.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that he felt that he had been misled by Aegon and lost out on 
almost £2,000 as a result. He said that the fund value had already dropped from £29,000 to 
£27,000 before he called Aegon. He was quoted a figure in the call, less tax. It wasnt made 
clear that it may be three days before the sale was completed. He says that he wouldnt 
have cashed in the investment and tried to ride out the situation if he had known of the 
potential reduction in value.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms disappointment, but after considering the evidence Ive decided that 
I agree with the investigator. I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Aegon accept that Mr M was not given full information in his call with Aegon. He should have 
been told that if he made a withdrawal request the value he would receive would only be 
certain in a day or two afterwards, when the trades were made. But after the call he was left 
with the expectation that he would receive the value discussed, or possibly the value from 
the next day. 
Im satisfied that once Aegon received the withdrawal request it was processed correctly and 
in good time. It gave no commitment to process the withdrawal any more quickly than it did. I 
note Mr Ms point that he has personally traded shares more quickly than this and that trades 
can be made more speedily. But it is not uncommon for funds like this to have periodic 
trading windows, the funds do not always operate in the same way as individual 
shareholdings.
Aegon made a mistake and Mr M was misinformed. When a business makes a mistake like 
this one, the way to put this right is usually to put the consumer in the same position they 
would now be in if the mistake had not been made. The answer is not to put them in the 
position they would be in if the misinformation had in fact been true. 
What I must decide is whether Mr M wouldve acted differently if he had been given the 
correct information in the call. Would he still have made the withdrawal? 
I do note that he says he wouldnt have withdrawn his funds and tried to ride out the situation 
if he had known the that there may be a fall in value. Whilst that may possibly be true, I think 
its more likely that he would have gone ahead with the withdrawal if he had been fully 
informed. I say that because I think Mr M now has the benefit of hindsight. Hes probably 
aware that the fall in the stock market that was prevalent in February and March 2020 did 
stop and there has, generally, been a recovery since then. But he couldnt have known that 
would happen when he made his decision to withdraw. And he was clearly concerned 
enough at the time to go ahead with a withdrawal when there had already been a fall in 
value.
When Mr M had concerns about his pension, the stock market was being impacted by the 
global economic effects of COVID-19. On 12 March 2020 the FTSE 100 saw its second 
largest single day fall in value of all time. It was the worst fall since the crash of 1987. 
Therefore, its understandable that he wanted to consolidate his pension in cash. But even 
after 16 March 2020, when he made his call, the market continued to fall until later in March 
2020 until a gradual recovery began.
Mr M should have been told in his call that the value he would actually receive would be a 
value that would be secured over the next 48 hours or so. This value could be more, or less 
than the value on that day. He should not have been led to understand that it was a specific 
figure. I think that even if he had been told that, he would still have gone ahead with the 
withdrawal and not risked potentially greater losses. He could never actually withdraw with 
the assurance of a guaranteed specific value. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied that Mr M lost out on the pension value he received. He was paid 
the correct amount. I fully agree that he suffered some loss of expectation and it must have 
been hurtful to receive less than he expected when he had already seen a short-term fall in 
value from over £29,000. But I think the offer Aegon made is fair and in line with any award 
this service would make for that loss of expectation. 
My final decision
Therefore, for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman