DRN-4164773
The complaint
Miss N has complained that Pi Financial Ltd (Pi) provided unsuitable advice regarding 
transferring her Defined Benefit (DB) pension to a personal arrangement.
What happened
Miss N was a deferred member of a DB pension scheme. She was referred by a colleague 
to an appointed representative of Pi in 2016, as she was interested in what pension 
freedoms meant for her pension.
A fact find meeting took place on 24 October 2016, recording the following:
Miss N was age 52 and single in good health, with no dependants
She was employed in the educational sector, which provided her with an ongoing 
local authority DB pension. The date of joining that scheme wasnt noted.
She owned her own home valued at £145,000 as well as two rental properties valued 
at £115,000 and £110,000
Her residential mortgage of £115,000 was on a repayment basis, ending at around 
age 70. The mortgages on the buy-to-lets totalled £150,000 and appear to be on an 
interest-only basis.
Her annual earned income was £20,000 and rental income £12,000, giving her 
£1,000 disposable income per month
Her cash savings were about £2,900
Pi also completed a retirement planning questionnaire which Miss N signed. This recorded 
that the aim of her seeking advice was amalgamation of  pensions for ease of 
administration and flexibility". It also recorded Miss Ns attitude towards an occupational 
pension transfer with the following answers:
-I left my ex-employer on good terms and have no reason to question the security of 
the company or the manner in which the pension fund is being run.
- [The DB pension is] A major proportion of my overall pension benefits which should 
be protected as far as reasonably possible.
-A higher lump sum would be nice, but is not a priority for me. I would like the 
flexibility at retirement to control the way benefits are paid. I would like to make the 
decision depending on my circumstances.
-I do not feel that I will ever be able to afford to retire early - Miss N realistically 
expected to retire at age 67.
-I have no dependents, and therefore a lump sum death benefits [sic] is not important 
to me.
-I would like the flexibility at retirement to control the way [death] benefits are paid. I 
would like to make the decision depending on my circumstances at the time. (But, 
having a spouses/dependants pension was ranked as the least important to Miss N.)
- Miss N also felt that access to flexi- or phased drawdown was more important to her 
than a guaranteed income for life or for beneficiaries.
Further, Pi carried out a knowledge and experience assessment which recorded that Miss N 
had only taken advice on endowments and pension policies in the past. She hadnt dealt on 
an execution only basis.
The transfer value of Miss Ns deferred DB scheme was £122,194 guaranteed until 
4 January 2017. The scheme was 90% funded and there was a funding plan to cover that 
shortfall by 2027. She had about ten years service and could expect a scheme pension of 
£6,372 revalued to the normal retirement age of 60, with a 50% spouses pension. For 
unmarried members, the benefit on death before retirement was a cash sum of £13,804. 
In addition, she held an existing personal pension with Standard Life to which she was 
contributing about £64 per month gross. It had a transfer value of around £16,200.
Based on her answers to 12 multiple choice questions, Miss N was assessed to have a 
moderate attitude to risk, which was level 3 on a scale of 1 to 5. However, following further 
discussion it was agreed moderately cautious (level 2) was more appropriate. 
A transfer value analysis (TVAS) was carried out for the DB scheme on 19 October 2016 
(using a MetLife system). This was based on MetLifes charges of 0.7% initially and 1.1% 
ongoing, plus Pis initial and ongoing charge. This established that a critical yield of 9%pa 
would be required to match the scheme pension, projected to be £5,724pa gross at age 60. 
Miss N met with Pi on 24 October 2016 to go through the information, and she signed the 
fact find and original client agreement on that date. She was due to pay an initial fee of 5% 
of the amount transferred and ongoing advice fee of 0.75%pa.
Pi set out its recommendations in a suitability report dated 26 October 2016. Based on this 
and the Needs & Expectations document, Miss Ns objectives were as follows:
Retire at age 67 with an income of £15,000 in todays terms.
Consider whether it was appropriate to transfer her DB scheme
Consolidation of her pensions for ease of administration and flexibility
The report stated that Pis recommendation was DO NOT TRANSFER, based on Miss Ns 
answers to the various questionnaires and the TVAS. The report contained the following 
statement:
"The critical yield needed to match your existing benefits at normal retirement age 60 is 
9% pa which is the rate of annual growth which would need to be achieved by the 
insurance company to mirror the benefits being offered by your occupational scheme. 
This, in my opinion, is not achievable return, based on the 8 years to your 60th birthday 
and you will therefore receive a smaller pension than that you will enjoy from [scheme]"
In response Miss N sent an undated handwritten letter to Pi, which Pi says was provided on 
8 November 2016. It explained that, with reference to the report, Miss N still wanted to 
transfer for the following summarised reasons:
Flexibility to take benefits as and when she desired, and to phase in her retirement
Access a tax-free lump sum
The opportunity to retire early without withdrawal penalties
The opportunity to increase the pension benefits she would receive
Miss N signed a new insistent client agreement on 8 November to transfer on this basis. A 
second suitability report was issued on 9 November 2016. It began by reminding Miss N (in 
bold) of the reason Ive quoted above that Pi hadnt recommended the transfer. It then gave the reasons Miss N said she wanted to proceed and addressed the ways in which the 
Scottish Widows pension could meet those objectives. 
A brief explanatory sheet was included saying that Scottish Widows portfolio 4 had been 
chosen as it was aligned to Miss Ns attitude to risk. From a factsheet provided I can see this 
was invested about 60% in fixed interest assets and 40% equities and alternatives. Pi 
added:
We discussed the impact of significant downturns in market conditions on your personal 
pension plan and how this might affect your lifestyle and objectives in retirement. My 
assumptions, which I shared with you, show this course of action could potentially 
achieve your objectives, but it is important we keep this under regular review to ensure 
you are on track.
Miss N signed the DB schemes discharge form on 10 November 2016. The total transfers 
paid were £138,983 by 13 December 2016. An ongoing fee of 0.75%pa has been collected. 
Miss N applied to make regular contributions of £100pm to the new SIPP which also appear 
to have been paid.
On 8 October 2018 Miss Ns new plan was valued at £144,870 versus the £141,283 paid in. 
She turned 55 in autumn 2019, and has told our investigator that she withdrew some of the 
tax-free cash in order to meet an unexpected bill to repair a roof. Shes also said that she 
accessed her local authority DB pension in October 2021 after retiring due to stress. This 
paid her tax-free cash of £15,000 and a small annuity. She started doing casual work, but 
due to her financial situation has resumed contracting in the educational sector in late 2022.
Over this same time period, Miss N looks to have sold one of her rental properties (she now 
has one remaining), and the proceeds appear to have been used to clear a large part of the 
mortgage on her main residence (which recently had about £22,000 outstanding).
Miss N complained via her representative on 7 March 2022. In its final response of 4 May 
2022, Pi rejected the complaint, broadly on the grounds that Miss N had acted against its 
initial advice, which had been not to transfer. In July 2022, the complaint was referred to us.
One of our investigators spoke with Miss N in December 2022. She said shed been 
interested in finding out what the best thing was to do with her pension, as there had been 
lots in the news about how to draw down at age 55. She accepted she said it would be nice 
to take some money out of her pension if she could, as she lives on her own and didnt have 
much in the way of spare funds for unexpected spending. But she didnt agree with Pis 
characterisation of the advice, when given verbally, being not to transfer. 
Her recollection was that the flexible nature of the new plan was strongly emphasised, 
without warning her shed be worse off  so she felt DO NOT TRANSFER must have been 
written by Pi to cover themselves.  Although she couldnt clearly remember writing the 
insistent client letter, she accepted she probably did.  
After speaking to the investigator, in February 2023 Miss N sent several emails to the same 
Pi adviser asking if he could give advice on paying off one of her mortgages with the 
pension. She said: 
I either want to pay of a [£]77,000 mortgage on my rental house or the [£]25,000 
mortgage on the house I live in. Both mortgages will double in price, one in August and 
one in Nov which will add £500 to my monthly outgoings. Hence wanting to pay one off.The adviser returned the calls the following week, expressing surprise that Miss N was 
asking for advice whilst making a complaint. According to Pis notes of the call, Miss N said 
that the complaint was prompted by a cold-call she received and she wasnt optimistic that it 
would be successful. The adviser explained that she had about £25,000 tax-free cash left to 
take, which Miss N considered if used to clear her residential property would make the buy 
to let mortgage manageable.
The discussions were concluded by email, and on understanding that the tax-free cash didnt 
need to be taken by the end of the 2022/23 tax year and there were at that time mortgage 
repayment penalties, Miss N decided to defer taking any action until November this year.
Two of our investigators have considered the complaint and both concluded that it should be 
upheld, broadly for the following reasons:
Both the DB transfer and switch of the other pension didnt meet Miss Ns objectives.
Miss N shouldnt initially have been classed as a moderate risk investor, as her 
answers given on the risk questionnaire pointed to her being more cautious.
The first suitability letter Miss N received wasnt clear, fair and not misleading as it 
was expected to be under the regulators rules. It didnt explain that Miss Ns 
objectives could be achieved without transferring. 
Although Pi said at the time that the DB transfer was inadvisable due to the high 
critical yield, it didnt explain clearly enough why.
Pi should also have properly explained that the early retirement reduction from the 
DB scheme at age 55 simply reflects the longer time payments would be made for.
The adviser didnt lay out any recommendations for the switch of the Standard Life 
pension at all, or consider the alternatives.
This didnt provide an adequate basis for Miss N to be treated as an insistent client. 
The process had the impression of a papering exercise, rather than a genuine 
attempt to persuade Miss N that transferring wasnt in her best interests.
The fee basis gave Pi had a conflict of interest, as its fee was contingent on the 
transfer going ahead.
Pi hasnt agreed with either investigator  for the following reasons in summary:
- Miss Ns circumstances were taken into account, the advice provided was not to 
transfer, and this was clearly detailed in the suitability report. 
- Miss Ns recorded income objective of £15,000 from age 67 was realistic. After an 
assumption of £9,000 state pension and £12,000 from rental properties, its 
reasonable to conclude she could have met her objectives without transferring.
- No transfer analysis/comparisons were run from age 67 as Pi considered it would 
have been more beneficial for Miss N to remain in the DB scheme.
- All the risks were explained to her and she fully understood the consequences of 
going against the advice, as was her right. She took 13 days to consider it.
- Miss N did not and still does not want a guaranteed income for life. She was adamant 
she wanted to access her pension from age 55 to clear some or all of her mortgages. 
- Miss N went back to the adviser on 22 February 2023 for further advice, showing that 
she valued his expertise and advice. This was at odds with the complaint which had 
been made up by her representative.
- Its evident that if Miss N hadnt transferred in 2016, she would have done at the 
latest by age 55 in 2019 in order to have flexible access to her pension.
The second investigator pointed out to Pi that Miss N was an inexperienced investor, and 
this pension accounted for the majority of her retirement provision. As she had gone to Pi for 
advice, had suitable, clearly explained advice been given not to transfer, they thought it was unlikely she would then disregard it. And had Miss N not transferred from the DB scheme, 
the tax free cash sum that she might now consider using to repay her mortgage would still 
be significant.
Pi disagreed that Miss N was inexperienced, on the basis that she owned three properties 
and is fully aware of investing and the risks involved. It also said its client agreement 
explained that Miss N would have to pay a fee if the transfer didnt go ahead. Pi remained of 
the view that Miss N wanted to make the transfer as it better met her plans for clearing her 
mortgages, either on retirement or death.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Pis actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Dealing with an insistent client
Pi says that it gave suitable advice for Miss N not to transfer her DB scheme to Scottish 
Widows, and it then fairly treated her as an insistent client. My starting point for assessing 
this is the FCAs guidance on insistent clients issued in February 20161:
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must be clear 
to the client. This is the normal advice process.
 
1https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/ukgwa/20160907175959/https://www.fca.org.uk/firms/pen
sion-reforms-insistent-clients2. You should be clear with the client what the risks of the alternative course of action are. 
Where the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements such as ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a pension transfer 
specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the defined contribution (DC) 
scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not suitable (see COBS 19.1).
 
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.

You must ascertain the clients investment objectives before making a recommendation. A 
request or preference by the client for a particular solution  for example accessing cash 
from a pension  is not an objective. You must ascertain the clients actual investment 
objectives so that you can advise on a suitable course of action to meet them. You must also 
communicate with the client (for example in the suitability report) in a way that is clear, fair 
and not misleading (see Principle 7 and COBS 4.2.1).
This guidance went on to specifically say that for DB transfers, the suitability report 
should not view suitability in the light of the critical yield alone, but explain the extent of 
the potential loss of benefits. So the first things for me to consider were what were 
Miss Ns objectives, would a transfer meet those objectives and  even though Pi 
advised Miss N not to transfer  did it initially explain this outcome in a clear, fair and 
not misleading manner. If it didnt, then it becomes more difficult for Pi to demonstrate 
that it treated Miss N fairly as an insistent client.
Was a transfer of Miss Ns DB pension suitable?
From what Pi recorded of Miss Ns situation and what Miss N has told us, she was 
essentially interested in finding out whether she should change her pension arrangements to 
benefit from the freedoms that had been announced in 2014-5. Pi initially recorded that her 
aim was to consolidate her pensions for ease of access. This is consistent with Miss Ns 
comments to our service that she was worried about being able to access a larger sum if the 
unexpected happened. The first suitability report said that if appropriate she would like to 
investigate a transfer to achieve her objectives  i.e. they werent paramount. 
The regulator states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Pi should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate - on contemporary evidence - that the transfer was in Miss Ns best 
interests. I cant fairly say that a desire to amalgamate pensions just in case access was 
needed, when Miss N couldnt access them for another three years, would justify giving up 
the guarantees in the DB pension.
To my mind, there would need to be a reasonable prospect of Miss N gaining a benefit from 
the transfer at that time, rather than deferring and revisiting the question of transferring until 
at least age 55. Miss N had no dependants, and any outstanding debts in excess of her 
estate would die with her, so I also cant fairly say that provided a reason to transfer either. 
However as Miss N was single, she could potentially unlock the value of spouses benefits 
from the DB scheme into the transfer value and use this to increase her own pension.
I can therefore see why Pi focused on the critical yield. That is, if Miss N took the cash 
equivalent transfer value of all the benefits (including spouses benefits) at age 52, was there 
a reasonable prospect of the fund growing enough by the time she retired to purchase a 
comparable annuity that exceeded the DB pension she was giving up. If there wasnt any 
reasonable prospect of this happening either, I return to the point above that there was no 
logical basis for making the transfer at that time. 
The critical yield is directly relevant to Miss Ns situation as its based on buying an annuity  
and the suitable advice would likely be for her to buy an annuity at retirement, both because of her attitude to risk and her reliance on this pension for income. On Pis attitude to risk 
questionnaire, Miss N agreed that she was an inexperienced, cautious investor who was 
concerned and anxious about volatility, and looked for safer investments even if that meant 
lower returns. She disagreed that she was comfortable with investing in the stock market, or 
that she found investment matters easy to understand, saw risk as an opportunity, or was 
willing to take substantial risk. 
For Pis scoring system to produce the result of a balanced risk profile with those answers 
suggests to me that something was wrong with the weightings used. She looks to me like a 
fairly cautious investor  as reflected by the fact that Miss N also wanted to lower the score 
when she discussed it with the adviser. Pi now says that, contrary to her own view at the 
time, Miss N was an experienced investor because she owned buy to let properties. That 
says very little to me about her ability to understand and accept the transfer of all investment 
and annuity rate risks from the DB scheme trustees to her individually.
A significant part of Miss Ns income in 2016 was based on rent from investment properties, 
and if at least some were retained into retirement, that already exposed part of her income to 
risk. Miss N desired income of £15,000pa (in 2016 terms), so that would become somewhat 
more than this with inflation up to age 60 or beyond. Its generally recognised that the state 
pension alone wont provide a comfortable standard of living. Miss Ns other pensions 
outside the deferred DB scheme were also relatively small. As she said herself at the time, 
this DB pension was a major proportion of her benefits and wanted to protect it as far as 
reasonably possible.
Pis TVAS was based on a different plan than the one Miss N transferred to  it cost 0.3% 
more per year than the Scottish Widows plan and 0.7% more initially (which over an eight 
year term to age 60 would slow the growth down by about another 0.1%pa). So the critical 
yield for Scottish Widows would have been a little lower than 9%; in the region of 8.6%. 
This critical yield also allows for Pis initial fee, which Pi says Miss N would have had to pay 
whether she transferred or not. As the client agreement says Please note a minimum 
charge may be applied even if you choose not to invest in a product [my emphasis] its not 
entirely clear that Pi would have charged 5% of the transfer value (over £6,000) if she hadnt 
transferred. It would have been fairly obvious to Pi that Miss N had insufficient savings to 
pay such a sum. But even if this had applied, it wouldnt make a difference to the fact that 
the critical yield was still plainly unachievable.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate at the time of Miss Ns advice was 3.4% for 7 years to the normal 
retirement age (60) of the DB scheme she was transferring from. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 2%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 8%. So taking this into account, along with the composition of assets in 
the discount rate, Miss Ns moderately cautious attitude to risk and also the term to 
retirement, I think she was very likely to receive lower benefits as a result of transferring. 
That was the conclusion even though she was benefiting from the transfer value from the 
spouses benefits. Unsurprisingly, Pi reached the same conclusion.
Did Pi explain a transfer wasnt suitable in a fair, clear and not misleading manner?The first suitability report clearly stated Pis recommendation was not to transfer because the 
critical yield wasnt achievable, and it said that the eventual pension shed receive would be 
dependent on investment growth and annuity rates. But it didnt explain, in terms I think 
Miss N would have understood, the potential amount she could stand to lose. Theres a 
single reference to the revalued DB pension at age 60 (estimated by the TVAS software) as 
£5,724pa, but Pi only emphasized this was guaranteed for five years  a reference to the 
death benefit which was somewhat irrelevant in her situation.
If it was acting in her best interests, Pi should have reiterated clearly that the entire DB 
pension was guaranteed for the whole of Miss Ns life, and was the best way of meeting her 
objective of a secure income in retirement. Investing at a moderately low level of risk would 
mean a significant part of this would be lost. That could have been illustrated if personal 
pension projections at lower growth rates had been shown to age 60 (the same age as the 
figure of £5,724pa) in either the TVAS or on the Scottish Widows illustration, but they 
werent. Pi muddied the waters further by referring to a Guaranteed Minimum Pension 
(GMP) which would be lost on transfer. But the DB pension was never going to be as low as 
just the GMP. Miss N was putting her entire pension at risk and not just the GMP.
In the same suitability report Pi then went on to list nine options Miss N had been asked to 
rank in order, which it then presented as objectives. The top five of which were access to 
drawdown, lump sums, early retirement, increasing her pension and phased retirement, all of 
which I appreciate might have seemed attractive to her. But as the FCAs guidance on 
insistent clients made clear, none of these were objectives in and of themselves  without 
being quantified in terms of how they would fit into her retirement planning. 
But of more concern, in a report which was meant to be advising Miss N not to transfer, Pi 
presented several of these objectives  even those such as death benefits which Miss N 
had said werent important to her  as being more easily achieved from a transfer. (But 
notably not increasing her pension, which was highly unlikely to be achieved.) Pi said:
- Lump sum: this could be available from the DB scheme but would be 25% from the 
personal pension
- Early retirement: The normal retirement age of the [DB scheme] is 60, whereas if 
you transfer you will be able to take benefits from the age of 55 [it didnt say this 
option was likely also available under the DB scheme subject to trustee agreement]
- Death benefits: the personal pension could offer up to £125,000 in 7 years time 
versus £24,300 from the DB scheme
The letter also made further comments as if the transfer was going ahead  for example 
stating that an income of £15,000 per annum was, in the view of the adviser, potentially 
achievable following transfer to a personal pension. Reference was made to an investment 
proposal (although this wasnt included), and the letter concluded by saying Turning to my 
specific recommendation where the retirement age for the new plan and charges for 
transferring are discussed.
Collectively, these support Miss Ns recollections that the benefits of a transfer were being 
discussed in more specific terms than the preliminary warning that she should not transfer. 
Miss N believes the adviser was covering himself and I can see how it might reasonably 
have come across this way. At the very least, the letter seems to have been poorly edited 
from a template used for recommending a transfer. 
The letter also didnt discuss whether it was suitable advice to transfer the Standard Life 
policy at all. There appears to have been no intention to give that advice, as the adviser later 
obtained a letter from Miss N saying that she didnt require it. Im therefore not persuaded 
that Pi presented its advice not to transfer in a clear, fair and not misleading manner. And that has implications for whether it has fairly treated Miss N as an insistent client.
The insistent client letter
This letter is in Miss Ns own handwriting and although she cant remember much about it, 
she accepts she probably wrote it. It is similar to the other written instructions she gave the 
adviser at the time. Im mindful that the regulators guidance for insistent clients set out that 
ideally clients should use their own words to explain why they wanted to act against the 
firms advice. So its likely that the adviser would have asked her to write this letter, however 
she had been motivated to apparently act against his advice. 
But what Miss N wrote in the letter werent her own, alternative, reasons for wanting to 
transfer against Pis advice, anyway. They are a repetition of the attractive features of 
flexibility, a tax-free lump sum, early or phased retirement without penalties and the 
possibility of increasing her pension  all of which had already been highlighted to her in the 
suitability letter. So I cant fairly say Miss N was demonstrating in this letter that she was a 
genuine insistent client. It was a product of the muddled advice process itself.
The letter shows that Miss N hadnt understood that she wouldnt improve her pension by 
transferring, and therefore what the significance of the critical yield  the reason Pi gave for 
not transferring  was. This is consistent with her recollection that she believed Pis overall 
advice was to transfer, notwithstanding any warning she may have been given in writing. On 
balance, I think its likely that Miss N would have seen this letter at the time as another of 
several instructions Pi was asking her to give in order for the transfers to go ahead.
How Pi responded to the insistent client letter
If Miss N was genuinely an insistent client, the regulator expected Pi to explain, by writing to 
her again, why her proposed course of action was against its advice. This should have 
meant challenging the misconceptions Miss N had that transferring might increase her 
pension benefits, when this was highly unlikely to be the case. That the penalty for early 
retirement under the DB scheme was simply an adjustment to account for the pension being 
paid for longer, and was offset by the lower growth shed achieve if she drew her personal 
pension earlier. And that giving up the guaranteed benefits under the DB scheme for more 
flexible options, before she needed them, wasnt a sensible basis for transferring and putting 
her lifetime income at risk.
Pi didnt challenge these misconceptions in its second suitability letter for the simple reason 
that it had prompted them in the first place. It was largely a repetition of the first suitability 
letter, this time without the investment recommendation omitted. Again the possibility of 
increasing her pension benefits was entertained, despite the same warning at the outset that 
this was highly unlikely. And the more flexible options were promoted as reasons for 
transferring. Overall, Pi was agreeing with the implied advice it had already given Miss N and 
which had prompted her to want to transfer. This was an unsuitable course of action for all 
the reasons Ive given above, many of which Pi didnt explain to her at all.
Pi says that We have a robust Pension Transfer process within the network and all advice is 
reviewed by Pension Transfer Specialists before any case is authorised (whether the advice 
is to transfer or not).If this case had been reviewed properly, the two suitability letters 
would not have been sent in this form and Miss N should not have been treated as an 
insistent client. She should have been given clear, reasoned advice as to why remaining in 
the DB scheme would better meet her long-term needs. If Pi had done this rather than 
promoting the premature access to lump sums, Im persuaded that Miss N would have 
followed its advice  just as she, not unreasonably, thought she was doing when she 
transferred.Furthermore, COBS 2.1.2R sets out that A firm must not, in any communication relating to 
designated investment business seek to:  (1) exclude or restrict; or (2) rely on any exclusion 
or restriction of; any duty or liability it may have to a client under the regulatory system. 
Amongst the letters I believe Miss N was asked to write to Pi was a request not to receive 
advice on the suitability of transferring her Standard Life pension. I think this was likely 
because Pi had already prepared a report at the time of the first suitability letter, on 27 
October 2016, showing that a transfer to a Scottish Widows plan would only benefit Miss N 
very slightly if Pi didnt take its ongoing advice charge (which it actually did take) and the 
funds remained invested until age 67 so that the initial charge could be recouped. (The 
Standard Life charges were already fairly low, at 0.7%pa.) 
I find it unlikely that Miss N would have declined advice on the Standard Life transfer of her 
own accord, when she had sought advice from Pi in the first place. I consider Pi treated 
Miss N unfairly here and in breach of COBS 2.1.2R and the clients best interests rule at 
COBS 2.1.1R. This also resulted in an unsuitable transfer of the Standard Life plan when 
she had no need to make that transfer.
Finally, I dont find it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint that Miss N has 
returned to Pi for advice. Clearly, she is worried about the impact of current interest rates on 
her mortgage and is an ongoing client. If Pi is willing to advise her I dont see why she 
wouldnt take advantage of this. As it noted from its phone call, she wasnt yet sure if the 
advice subject to this complaint would be found to be unsuitable.
Putting things right
A fair outcome would be for Pi Financial Ltd to put Miss N as far as possible, into the position 
she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would have remained in 
the DB scheme. I also think she would also have retained her existing Standard Life pension 
arrangement.
To compensate Miss N fairly, Pi Financial Limited must determine the combined fair
value of her transferred pension benefits from Step One plus Step Two below. If
the actual value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
Actual Value
This means the actual amount payable from the Scottish Widows personal pension at the
date of the calculation.
Fair value  step one
Pi must calculate the value of the benefits Miss N lost as a result of transferring out of her 
DB scheme in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer 
advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in 
DISP App 4: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
I appreciate that Miss N has drawn her small local authority pension, but she was able to 
accommodate the small level of income this produced whilst also accessing a lump sum she 
required at that time. My understanding is that Miss N hadnt yet accessed all of the tax-free 
cash that she could have done from her larger Scottish Widows pension  and hasnt drawn 
an income, as she has returned to work. Where a consumer hasnt substantially drawn their 
benefits, applying the regulators guidance will normally mean an assumption that they would 
have accessed the DB pension at the schemes normal retirement age, in this case at 60 
next Autumn. I appreciate that without the ability to draw some tax-free cash from the Scottish Widows 
pension earlier on, the problem Miss N faces this year with her mortgages would have been 
more acute. However from what Pi says, Miss N still has £25,000 tax-free cash to take and 
has followed its advice to defer until November this year. That suggests she is not rushing to 
access all the lump sums she can, and it will bring her to within a year of the normal 
retirement date of her DB scheme.
Taking tax-free cash from the DB scheme early would have triggered an income when 
Miss N didnt need it, which would then be lower for the rest of her life. So I cant safely 
conclude that Miss N would have chosen to early retire from the DB scheme at age 59, for 
the sake of waiting one further year. Although she would incur more mortgage interest in the 
meantime, she would also have had more certainty about what pension and tax-free cash 
she could expect from the DB scheme than she has now. Miss N is also back in employment 
and still receiving rental income from her second property. 
I therefore find it most likely that, if the transfer hadnt happened, Miss N would have 
remained in the DB scheme until age 60. That is the assumption that should be used. The 
guidance does of course make allowance for the earlier payment of any tax-free cash sum.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Miss Ns 
acceptance of the decision.
Fair value  step two
Pi Financial Ltd must contact Standard Life to obtain a notional value of Miss Ns former 
policy, assuming the higher contributions she paid to Scottish Widows were instead paid to 
Standard Life.
In the event that Standard Life cannot provide this value, or it isnt possible to value the 
portion representing the increase to Miss Ns contributions, Pi may use an alternative 
benchmark for some or all of this value. The benchmark is for half the investment: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from fixed rate 
bonds. For the fixed rate bonds benchmark, Pi should use the monthly average rate for one-
year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment 
on an annually compounded basis.
Ive chosen this method of calculating a fair value where the notional value isnt available 
from Standard Life, because Miss N wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.  
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital. The FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return index is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, 
mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was 
prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Miss N's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Miss N into that position. 
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation, or 
notional value from Standard Life (if available) from the point in time when they were actually 
paid in. Tax-free cash, to the extent that this would have been available, should also be deducted 
from the fair value, or notional value from Standard Life (if available) at the point Miss N 
drew a tax-free cash sum from her Scottish Widows policy  so that it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. Any remaining tax-free cash that Miss N wouldnt 
have been able to take from the notional or fair value or the Standard Life policy should be 
treated as a past gain in line with the regulators guidance in policy statement PS22/13 and 
DISP App 4 when carrying out fair value  step one.
The total value of the sums produced by steps one and two is the combined fair value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Pi Financial Ltd must:
always calculate and offer Miss N redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Miss N before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the Scottish Widows pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Miss N receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Miss N accepts Pis offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Miss N for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Miss Ns end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Miss N as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits 
that would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Pi may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Miss N 
would otherwise pay on income from her pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Miss Ns likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
DISP App 4 sets out the mechanism for updating the loss amount for the lapse of time 
between the valuation and payment date. For the avoidance of doubt, this must be used for 
the combined loss resulting from the transfer of the DB and Standard Life benefits.
Again, for the avoidance of doubt, Ive made no assumption that Miss N would still have paid 
a fee if shed followed advice not to transfer. Pis argument is based on its client agreement 
which suggests it might have sought to charge what, in all likelihood ,would have been a 
reduced fee in cash. But Im looking here at the remedy for advice that was unsuitable. I 
dont consider its fair or reasonable to give credit for a fee Miss N might have paid in order 
to receive the clear fair and not misleading advice she was entitled to receive from Pi, but 
didnt in fact receive.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. 
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay 
Miss N the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that Pi  
Financial Ltd pays Miss N the balance.
If Miss N accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pi Financial Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Miss N can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss N may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman