DRN-3308510
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited avoided her life 
assurance policy and declined another application for further cover.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 16 May 2022, which forms part of this decision. It said:
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to 
some key events here.
On 2 June 2017 Mrs B applied for life cover with Legal and General through a third-
party firm. When applying for this policy, Mrs B disclosed that she was waiting to be 
seen at or attending hospital for a back condition relating to disc problems. Mrs B 
confirmed that she hadnt experienced bowel or bladder problems or persistent 
symptoms (such as pins and needles, weakness or numbness) in both legs due to 
the back condition. Further, she said she wasnt awaiting an operation or surgery for 
it and that the last symptoms were 15 years ago.
The policy was set up and provided £200,000 of cover over a 35-year term for 
monthly premiums of about £97. A few weeks later, amendments were made to Mrs 
Bs policy application which included:
The last symptom for her back problem was one month ago, not 15 years. 
And that occasional pain or stiffness most closely described her condition 
during the last two weeks.
Shed suffered from stomach pain in the last two years and that shed seen 
her GP or another doctor about it. The frequency of the symptoms in the last 
three months was less than weekly. But she wasnt waiting to see a 
specialist, or to have any tests or investigations by her GP or a hospital 
doctor, or to get the results of any tests or investigations.
I understand that, after Legal and Generals consideration of this additional 
information, the policy remained in place on the same terms.
In August 2021 Mrs B made another application for life cover  £500,000 over a 20-
year term - with Legal and General. As part of their consideration of this application, 
Legal and General obtained a patient health report (PHR) from Mrs Bs GP. After 
assessing this, they wrote to Mrs B explaining that they were unable to offer any 
cover due to a history of multiple joint pains with long term and ongoing opioid 
treatment.
Legal and General also wrote to Mrs B about her existing policy. They said that when 
she applied for this in 2017, she didnt tell them that she had multiple joint problems 
and long term and ongoing opioid treatment. Legal and General explained that had 
they been aware of this at the time, then they wouldnt have been able to offer cover. 
So, they avoided the 2017 policy and refunded the premiums she had paid.
Mrs B complained about Legal and Generals decision to avoid her existing policy 
and decline her 2021 application. She said that shed answered all aspects of the 
applications honestly.
Legal and General rejected the complaint. In short, they said:
They considered the medical information they received when considering the 
2021 application as it can potentially impact a persons future health. And, as 
result of this information, they were aware of the severity of Mrs Bs back pain 
and long-term use of opioid treatment. Because of this, they were unable to 
offer Mrs B any cover.
They also looked at the application for the 2017 policy and explained they 
offered cover to Mrs B in good faith based on the information she provided. 
They noted that they obtained a short medical report from the GP at that time, 
but this only contained limited health information. The report didnt seek any 
information about Mrs Bs back problems as, based on what was disclosed, 
they didnt require additional insight into them.
When they received the PHR for the 2021 application, this detailed the 
extensive back problems Mrs B had suffered prior to applying for cover in 
2017. In particular, they noted a hospital letter from August 2016 that 
confirmed Mrs B suffered from long standing leakage of urine for many years.
They considered this history to be relevant to the bladder problem part of the 
question asked in the 2017 application. And if theyd known about it, then 
further questions wouldve been asked. While its not possible to know how 
these questions wouldve been answered by Mrs B, it is clear relevant 
information wasnt disclosed in the application. 
Due to this theyre entitled to use the current medical evidence received on 
the recent application to revisit their previous decision to offer the 2017 policy. 
Having done this, had they known of Mrs Bs history of chronic pain and 
opioid use, they wouldnt have offered cover at that time. So, they avoided the 
policy and refunded the premiums paid  about £5,000.
They noted Mrs B said she disclosed all her relevant medical conditions and 
medication to the third-party adviser when applying. But the adviser was 
acting on Mrs Bs behalf and so they arent responsible for their conduct.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators but he didnt think Legal 
and General had acted unfairly. He thought Mrs B made a qualifying 
misrepresentation by not disclosing her bladder problems in the 2017 application. 
And that Legal and Generals underwriting criteria showed, had they known about it 
at the time, then they wouldnt have offered cover. So, he thought it was fair for Legal 
and General to avoid the policy and refund the premiums. Our investigator also noted 
that, while Mrs B said she didnt receive a checking your details (CYD) document 
(which sets out the answers she provided to the application questions), Legal and 
General had shown it was sent to her by both email and post.
Mrs B disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.I contacted Legal and General about their underwriting criteria to ensure it had been 
fairly applied to both Mrs Bs policy and her 2021 application. From what I received, I 
thought theyd fairly declined the 2021 application but I wasnt persuaded that Mrs 
Bs policy shouldve been avoided due to the misrepresentation relating to her 
bladder problems. I thought it wouldve most likely been offered, but at a higher 
premium.
Since then however, Legal and General has said Mrs B made a further 
misrepresentation in respect of investigations she was undergoing for stomach pain 
when she applied. Ive therefore taken this into consideration too.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease of reading, Ill explain my thoughts on the avoidance of Mrs Bs policy and 
declined application separately.
Avoidance of 2017 policy
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer 
fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - 
what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
As I earlier explained, Legal and General think Mrs B failed to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation in respect of two issues  her back problems and 
opioid treatment, and the investigations she was undergoing for her stomach pain.
The relevant questions Mrs B was asked  in respect of the stomach pain  when 
applying for the policy were:
Health  Last 2 years
When answering the following questions, if youre unsure whether to tell us 
about a medical condition, please tell us anyway.
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the 
last 2 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
any condition affecting your stomach, esophagus or bowel, for example 
Chrons disease, ulcerative colitis? Please ignore diarrhoea, food poisoning, 
sickness or vomiting, stomach bug or upset, provided no hospital 
investigation was adviser or completed.Mrs B  as part of the amendment of the application  answered this yes. She then 
selected from a list of conditions stomach pain and confirmed that she had seen her 
GP or another doctor about it. Mrs B was then asked the following question:
Are you awaiting to see a specialist, or to have any tests or investigations by 
your GP or a hospital doctor, or to get results of any tests or investigations?
Mrs B answered this no.
Based on Mr Bs medical records, I dont think she answered this question correctly. 
This is because her records show the following:
She was referred by a gastroenterologist consultant in May 2017 for a HIDA 
scan and liver function tests due to long-standing pain in her right side. And 
that Mrs B would be brought back to reassess things with the above-
mentioned investigations.
The HIDA scan took place on 24 May 2017. And a letter of 2 June 2017 
confirms that a follow up appointment has been requested.
Gastroenterologist consultant letters from September 2017 about Mrs B being 
referred to a consultant surgeon regarding this issue following the HIDA scan, 
which is abnormal showing variant dyskinesia and ultrasound suggesting 
impaired gallbladder filling. The letters also note that Mrs B continues to 
suffer from pain and that was greater during the fatty meal for the HIDA scan.
It therefore seems that when Mrs Bs application was both submitted and amended in 
June 2017, she was still awaiting further investigations into the cause of the stomach 
pain.
Im satisfied Legal and General asked Mrs B a clear and specific question about her 
health. And so, I think she ought to have answered this question differently. As she 
didnt disclose the ongoing investigations for stomach pain, I think she failed to take 
reasonable care when answering the above question.
I understand Mrs B says she didnt receive the CYD documents sent to her to be able 
to check the answers in the application. And, had she done, then she wouldve 
replied to Legal and General. I cant be sure what was received by Mrs B at the time. 
But Legal and General has shown that the CYD documents were sent to Mrs B by 
both email and in the post. So, I think its most likely she received a copy. But, even if 
she didnt, then I dont think I can fairly hold Legal and General responsible if there 
was an issue with the delivery as this wasnt in their control. Furthermore, Mrs B had 
the opportunity to answer the question accurately when applying through her 
financial adviser  preventing the need to correct it. At which point, I think its also 
worth noting that amendments were made to the policy application a few weeks after 
it was first submitted, which suggests Mrs B knew the importance of answering the 
questions accurately.
Im aware that Mrs B thinks Legal and General ought to have carried out a full 
medical history check rather than one that only contained limited health information. 
She said had they done so, they wouldve been aware of her health issues  
including the back problems and opioid treatment too. Although I appreciate Mrs Bs 
views on this, CIDRA places a responsibility on the consumer to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation  thereby disclosing information thats relevant to the insurer as part of their application process. Because of this, I dont think 
responsibility for this misrepresentation lies with Legal and General
Legal and General has provided their underwriting criteria which shows, had Mrs B
answered this question correctly, then they wouldnt have been able to offer cover at 
that time. This means Im satisfied Mrs Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Ive therefore looked at the actions Legal and General can take here in accordance 
with CIDRA.
CIDRA sets out the remedies an insurer can take when a qualifying 
misrepresentation has occurred. And the remedy depends on how the 
misrepresentation is classified  either deliberate or reckless or careless. Both 
classifications however allow an insurer to avoid the policy and refuse any claim 
when, had the correct information been disclosed in the application, cover wouldnt 
have been offered. The difference here though is that premiums should be refunded 
for careless misrepresentation whereas it can be retained by the insurer if classified 
as deliberate or reckless. Given Legal and General has refunded the premiums  
albeit they did so due to avoiding the policy for a different misrepresentation  Im 
satisfied Mrs B has received the most favourable remedy under CIDRA. I think this is 
fair.
Im therefore satisfied legal and General was entitled to avoid Mrs Bs policy in 
accordance with CIDRA. And that, as theyve already refunded the premiums, they 
dont need to do anything further.
2021 application
This application wasnt declined due a misrepresentation but, instead, because of the
medical information Legal and General received in the PHR. I understand Mrs B will 
be disappointed by this application being declined but insurers can decide what risk 
they are willing to accept  that being what cover they are willing to offer, if any, and 
at what cost.
In this case, having looked at Legal and Generals underwriting criteria, Im satisfied 
they considered Mrs Bs application in line with it. And unfortunately for Mrs B, they 
werent willing to offer her any cover. I think they acted fairly when considering her 
application. So, I dont think they need to do anything further in this respect either.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I invited both parties to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision.
Legal and General didnt add anything further.
Mrs B didnt agree and, in short, she added the following points:
She answered all the questions asked of her by the third-party firm (who Ill refer to 
as A) fully and honestly when applying for the cover. And she doesnt think A asked 
her a lot of the application questions that I referred to in my provisional decision.
She gave A details of her opioid medication at the time as she recalls stating it at the 
beginning of a medication list. She believes A failed to provide Legal and General information that she told them.
Legal and General shouldnt use third-party firms like A to collect information but they 
should do it themselves to avoid mistakes. They should also obtain a doctors report 
and not rely on third-party information from medical specialists as they often only 
refer back to the GP, not the patient. So, she wasnt informed about a lot of what I 
referred to. 
Now that both parties have had an opportunity to respond, I can proceed to making my final 
decision on Mrs Bs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs B is hoping for but I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Mrs B has raised various concerns about the role of A in setting up her policy with Legal and 
General. While Ive noted these, I think it would be helpful if I explained that A worked 
independently of Legal and General and on behalf of Mrs B. This means Legal and General 
arent responsible for their actions  including for example, if they didnt ask Mrs B all of the 
application questions or failed to accurately disclose the answers she provided to them when 
submitting it. 
I understand Mrs B thinks Legal and General shouldnt work with firms like A and that they 
should collate the (application) information themselves. The role of our service however isnt 
to tell firms  like Legal and General  who they can do business with. That it is a 
commercial decision for them to make and, in this case, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
them to accept Mrs Bs application from A as they were authorised by the regulator 
(Financial Conduct Authority) at the time. Furthermore, Mrs B had the option of applying 
directly to Legal and General, or using a different firm to assist her, if she was unhappy with 
A. I therefore dont think I can fairly hold Legal and General responsible for Mrs Bs decision 
to apply for life cover through A. 
Ive also considered Mrs Bs point that medical specialists often dont inform the patient 
about matters but refer it back to the GP instead. Because of this, she says she wasnt 
aware of some of the events I referred to in my provisional decision. But, while I appreciate 
patients may not always be fully aware of all of their medical information, Im satisfied in 
Mrs Bs case that she ought to have known that she was still undergoing investigation at the 
time of applying. Particularly given the scan that she underwent shortly before applying and 
the ongoing pain she was experiencing without a confirmed diagnosis being made. Because 
of this, I remain of the view that Mrs B ought to have disclosed this to Legal and General in 
her application.
It follows that I consider Mrs B made a qualifying misrepresentation when applying for her 
life cover. And that, by avoiding the policy and refunding premiums, Legal and General has 
acted fairly and in line with CIDRA. I therefore dont think they need to take any further action 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman