DRN-3185099
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
dealt with things when she contacted it for assistance under her Home Emergency policy to 
report a leak. The damage resulted in Mrs M making a claim under her home insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs M reported a leak to her insurer, LV under her Home Emergency (HE) policy. 
An engineer attended and identified the source of the leak from an overflow pipe to a header 
tank above and carried out a repair. However a week later Mrs M contacted LV as water was 
still escaping to the ceiling and causing damage.
A second engineer attended and found that the first engineer hadnt properly repaired the 
leak. They carried out further repairs. The second engineer mentioned a tear in the 
secondary tank which would require repairs in the future. But this wasnt related to the cause 
of the leak. 
Mrs M made a claim to LV under her home insurance policy. A specialist was needed to 
check for asbestos. Unfortunately LVs specialist wasnt available for two weeks. So it 
agreed for Mrs M to make alternative arrangements which it would cover under the claim. 
Mrs M was unhappy as she said the damage when the leak was first identified wouldnt have 
been to the extent that she needed to claim under her home insurance policy. But she said 
the subsequent damage when the leak wasnt properly repaired led to her having to make a 
claim. 
So Mrs M was unhappy about having to pay an excess in order to have the damaged areas 
of her home repaired. And she was unhappy about the claim having an impact on her 
premium at renewal. Mrs M said the risk of asbestos to the home wasnt treated as a priority 
by LV.
In July 2021 LV replied to Mrs Ms complaint. It accepted the first engineer hadnt properly 
repaired the leak. But it said as the water had started to leak gradually to the room below, it 
couldnt say that the engineers error resulted in the claim being made. 
LV therefore concluded that it was correct for Mrs M to pay the excess due when she 
claimed under her home insurance policy. And it said as a claim was made, this would be 
taken into account when recalculating the premium at renewal. 
For the first engineers poor repairs, LV paid Mrs M £150 compensation. It said it should 
have appointed a Loss Adjuster (LA) sooner  when it was made aware of the asbestos risk. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused, LV paid Mrs M £200. So it paid Mrs M a total 
compensation award of £350.
Mrs M remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She explained that she was 
recovering from a serious illness and surgery in the months before the leak happened and 
was awaiting the results of ongoing tests when the leak occurred. Mrs M said the damage 
from the first leak wasnt something that required them to make a claim  it was the ongoing 
damage from the leak for a further week. So she doesnt feel LV has done enough to put 
things right as she says the claim related damage was caused by poor repairs. Mrs M said 
the damage meant significant disruption as she works from home and also looks after her 
grandchildren part time. So alternative arrangements had to be made. 
Our investigator thought LV should pay Mrs M a further £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused as she felt it should have offered more support to Mrs M sooner 
when it was aware of the asbestos issue. However, she didnt think it was unreasonable for 
LV to have dealt with repairing the damage as a claim under the policy. And so she thought 
it was fair for LV to request the excess  and it was entitled to take the claim into account 
when calculating the cost of future premiums. 
LV accepted the investigators findings. Mrs M didnt agree. Shes unhappy that we havent 
taken into account the fact that they had to cancel a holiday because the works had to be 
carried out and the disruption caused by the repairs. Mrs M says she wasnt able to work 
from home on the day the asbestos was being removed as it wasnt safe. And so she feels 
her loss of earnings should be considered by LV. 
Mrs M says the water damage from the first leak was not the cause of the damage which led 
to having to make a claim. 
As Mrs M didnt agree, the case has been passed to me decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I intend to address the salient points of the complaint  but I have carefully considered what 
both parties have said  and Mrs Ms response to the investigators view. 
LV accepts that the first engineer didnt properly repair the leak to Mrs Ms property. 
However, a leak had occurred. And I dont have sufficient information to safely conclude that 
it was the poor repair carried out by the first engineer  and not the initial leak  that resulted 
in the damage which led to Mrs Ms claim. 
When a leak occurs in a home and a claim is made, unfortunately it will involve a degree of 
disruption, time and inconvenience while the damage is identified and repairs are carried 
out. Unfortunately this is inevitable. So while I understand Mrs Ms strength of feeling about 
the consequences of the leak and the claim, Ive taken an even handed approach when 
considering whether LVs service to Mrs M during this period caused distress and 
inconvenience over and above the disruption of the leak and claim.
LV accepts that there were times when its service fell short. Theres no dispute that the first 
engineer failed to properly repair the leak. And Mrs M was understandably unhappy when 
advised of a two week wait for a specialist to inspect for asbestos while living in the home. 
Ive no doubt that the timing of the leak and having to deal with the repairs came at an 
already difficult and worrying time for Mrs M and her family as she was in ill health. Mrs M 
explained she had to make many phone calls to LV. I appreciate that LVs service failings 
only added to Mrs Ms concerns at this time. But taking everything into account, I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for LV to pay Mrs 
M a further £200 compensation. This makes the total compensation award LV pays Mrs M 
£550 and this is in line with awards we give for circumstances similar to Mrs Ms. 
So I agree with the investigators recommendation and this is set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mrs M £200 compensation in addition to the £350 its already paid 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman