DRN-2322728
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy about American International Group UK Limited not paying his repair costs 
for his damaged mobile phone. The mobile phone insurance policy comes as part of a bank 
account benefits package.
What happened
Mr D made a claim after his phone was damaged. Mr D had gone ahead and got the repairs 
done prior to making the claim. Because of this AIG said it couldnt pay the claim as the 
correct process hadnt been followed. But it did accept there had been some service failings 
and paid Mr D £20 in compensation. It also refunded the £100 excess. Mr D remained 
unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the process for claiming was confirmed 
within the terms and conditions of the policy. Our investigator accepted that as Mr D got his 
phone repaired before he tried to claim on the policy this was outside the terms of the 
insurance. Our investigator felt the £20 for the mistake with call back and the refund of the 
£100 excess was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think AIG accepted that Mr Ds phone had been damaged. Its clear that when Mr D did 
contact AIG it reviewed his claim to see if it could do something outside of the usual 
procedure. AIG decided it couldnt pay for the repair as it was carried out outside of the 
terms and conditions of the policy. I think its fair that AIG did consider the claim. But its 
reasonable for it to expect to deal with claims within the process it has laid down. So, I dont 
think AIG acted unfairly.
Mr D was also unhappy with what he saw as a lack of clarity around the claim process. And 
he didnt get a call back from a manager when promised. He said it wasnt clear he needed 
to swap the phone or that accessories and data needed to be removed. He didnt think the 
online portal confirmed the need to call or log a claim online first. AIG confirmed the policy 
allowed for a walk in option or an exchange, although during the current time the walk in 
option would be understandably limited. 
Ive reviewed the details and what AIG has said in response to Mr D. AIG accepted that the 
call back didnt take place and it offered Mr D £20 for this service failing, and it apologised. 
But it did confirm that as Mr D hadnt followed the claim process there wasnt any more it 
would do. AIG said the correct claim options were offered to Mr D and as compensation it 
offered to refund back the £100 excess to Mr Ds card. I think this showed that AIG took Mr 
Ds complaint seriously and tried to reach a fair and reasonable outcome for him. In the 
circumstances I dont think AIG need to do anything more I think the claim process was 
clear.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against American International Group UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman