DRN-3276722
The complaint
Mr H and Ms M complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited is unreasonably refusing a 
terminal illness claim theyve made under their joint protection policy.  
To resolve their complaint, they want the claim payment to be made without further delay.   
What happened
Mr H and Ms M took out a term assurance policy with Aviva in 2003. It offers £100,000 of 
level life cover for a twenty year term to 1 April 2023. The policy also included terminal 
illness benefit until eighteen months before the end of the term  so, 1 October 2021.   
In May 2019, Ms M was sadly diagnosed with a type of secondary metastatic cancer. In 
September 2021, Mr H and Ms M made a claim to Aviva. 
In October 2021, Aviva refused the claim. It said whilst it appreciated that Ms Ms cancer 
was incurable, there wasnt enough information in the report from her treating consultant 
(Professor B) to show the terminal illness wording was met and so it couldnt pay a claim.
Mr H and Ms M complained. They said Ms M had been terminally ill for four years, and 
therefore the claim wasnt made within the last eighteen months of the policy, which was the 
time limit set by Aviva. She had been given a DS1500 form permitting special measures 
application for benefits  this is only issued to patients with a limited life expectancy. 
They also felt it was significant that the policy did not require repayment of funds if a 
policyholder didnt pass away, or a confirmed life expectancy of twelve months upon 
diagnosis. Ms M was receiving treatment, but they took the view that irrespective of the 
ability of chemotherapy to temporarily suspend active disease, the diagnosis Ms M received 
was of incurable advanced terminal cancer. 
Later in October 2021, Aviva rejected the complaint. It said the medical evidence showed Ms 
Ms cancer was stable, and its Chief Medical Officer (CMO) had said the results from the 
current trial of her treatment showed a survival of 35 months from commencement. It further 
commented that Ms M might be offered a further line of treatment in the future.  
Aviva also said it recognised that Ms M took some time before she and Mr H made the 
claim, having been diagnosed in 2019. If Ms M had contacted Aviva at that time, it said it 
would have discovered there were treatment options remaining that may have a positive 
influence on Ms Ms life expectancy. It therefore would have declined a claim and awaited 
the outcome of her current treatment. So, either way, Aviva couldnt have accepted a claim.  
Mr H and Ms M brought the complaint to this service. They made a number of detailed 
submissions on their complaint form. They said Aviva had unreasonably relied on the 
opinion of its CMO over Ms Ms treating Professor of Oncology. They had not been given 
any information as to whether Avivas CMO was selecting the best possible outcomes from 
data available and they felt this was unreasonable. They explained they had undertaken a 
subject access request to Aviva. 
Mr H and Ms M also said that they felt Aviva had been unreasonable in overlooking that Ms 
M was given a DS1500 form by Professor B  this was an established mechanism within the 
NHS to support terminally ill patients and not just a benefits form, as Aviva had said. 
They also said Ms M was informed that it is difficult to precisely determine a future date of 
death; despite this, she was told that if she did not elect to take any medication, she would 
die within months. Since there is no clause within the term assurance policy that makes 
accepting treatment a requirement, Ms M and Mr H said that Aviva ought to settle the claim. 
In summary, they submitted that it was unreasonable for Aviva to attempt to insert clauses 
that did not exist within the policy. They believed the CMO had unfairly set out that life 
expectancy had to be based upon an estimated response to treatment. In their view, the 
CMO had unreasonably challenged the view of Professor B and an entire multi-disciplinary 
team of specialists. Dealing with Aviva was taking a considerable toll upon Ms Ms health 
and using time which should be spent with her friends and family and fighting her cancer.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint but she did not think it should succeed. She said that 
when asked about life expectancy, Professor B had referred to median survival of 37.5 
months for patients such as Ms M on her line of treatment. This was in September 2021. 
She therefore did not believe the evidence showed Ms M had met the policy definition of less 
than twelve months life expectancy before 1 October 2021. 
Ms M made a number of further submissions in two detailed letters from January 2022. I will 
not repeat the letters in full, though I have read them in their entirety. In summary, Ms M said 
she and Mr H disagreed with the investigator and wanted the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. It was set out that:
it is their belief that Aviva has unfairly rejected the claim by applying terms that do not 
exist within the contract between the parties;
there is no clause within the policy to enable Aviva to insist upon a policyholder 
accepting medical intervention of any type;
there is no clause that enables Aviva to withhold payment of terminal illness benefit 
for any specified period of time;
there is no clause that enables Aviva to claw back monies had it been paid to any 
policy holder (irrespective of whether medical interventions were taken) if the life 
expectancy exceeded twelve months thereafter;
Professor B can confirm that in the absence of any further medical intervention at the 
time of Ms Ms terminal diagnosis in 2019, she would have met her demise within 
twelve months;
they submit that this is key to their claim;
had Ms M been in the mental state to have contacted Aviva in May 2019 and 
subsequently been informed that accepting medical interventions was a pre-requisite 
to payment of terminal illness benefit, they would have challenged that view;
Ms M says she also would have refused medical intervention  a stark option but one 
which would have at least guaranteed financial security for Mr H;
their view is that a life expectancy ought to have been sought from Professor B on 
the basis that Ms M had not undergone any medical interventions;
if Aviva is selling expensive policies to the public which include terminal illness 
benefit then at the point of a claim insist that payment will only be made where 
policyholders will accept medical treatment or interventions that may or may not 
increase life expectancy, this should have been clearly stated within the policy;
they believe that Avivas actions amount to breach of contract under relevant 
legislation;had Aviva intended to restrict terminal illness benefit payment to those policyholders 
who accepted medical interventions at the point of diagnosis, an appropriate clause 
should have been drafted and included within the contract;
they have viewed over 400 similar cases on the Financial Ombudsman Service 
website and many were considered months and years after the event;
the same approach should be applied here, had Ms M made a claim in 2019. 
Aviva didnt have any further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Ms Ms diagnosis. Id like to send my best wishes to Ms M and Mr H. I 
realise this is an incredibly difficult time for them, particularly during the current pandemic.  
I dont underestimate the severity of Ms Ms illness and I can see the impact it has had on 
Ms M and Mr H. Unfortunately, I am also of the view that this complaint should not succeed. 
Ill set out my reasons for my conclusions below.  
I have looked at what the parties' obligations are under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. That is the start point. The policy schedule under the section marked Life Cover 
Benefit says:
£100,000 Term Assurance - Without Profits Sum Assured
Payable on first death within the term of the policy or when a claim for Terminal 
Illness Benefit has been accepted by Norwich Union [Aviva].
The policy terms and conditions go further and define Terminal Illness Benefit. That says:
(a) Terminal Illness Benefit will be payable where, other than within the eighteen 
months prior to the Expiry Date, the Life Assured is diagnosed as suffering from an 
advanced or rapidly progressing and incurable condition (the Terminal Illness) which 
is, in the opinion of the Companys medical adviser, [is] such that the life expectancy 
of the Life Assured is no greater than twelve months from the date the condition is 
notified to the Company by the Policyholder.
There are further clauses (b) to (d) relating to application of the benefit, payment value and 
confirmation that the claim can only be made once; these are not disputed. 
As stated, the benefit will not be available during the last eighteen months of the policy so in 
Mr H and Ms Ms case that definition must be met by the evidence that exists (or is 
retrospectively measured) before 1 October 2021.  
So, for the purposes of a valid claim, terminal illness as set out above requires before 1 
October 2021, 1) evidence that the illness is incurable and either advanced or rapidly 
progressing and 2) the CMOs medical opinion confirming a life expectancy of less than 
twelve months from September 2021  the point at which a claim was made.
Clearly, Ms Ms condition is incurable, given the recurrence, advanced nature and spread of 
her type of secondary cancer and this is not disputed by Aviva. However, I dont believe the 
definition has been satisfied in full based on the information Ive seen.  I appreciate Mr H and Ms M have sent us detailed arguments explaining how the definition 
given above doesnt expressly set out that the estimate for life expectancy is inclusive of 
treatment options. However, I dont agree thats the fair way to look at the policy wording.
The intention of a terminal illness payment is an advance payment of a policys death
benefit. For a valid claim under these terms and conditions, it must be found that the 
policyholders condition is expected to lead to his or her death within twelve months and in 
this case, that must be before the final eighteen months of the policy term. If a treatment 
could reasonably be undertaken with a view to prolonging a persons life, I dont believe its 
fair to disregard that. This is because a treatment option may have an impact on the illness 
being one that is advanced or rapidly progressing, as defined by the policy terms. 
In my view, the definition ought to be read on the basis that that the policyholder is not likely 
going to survive for more than a further twelve months, irrespective of any treatment. That 
must be the case to account for conditions which on diagnosis may be terminal insofar as 
being an incurable illness which would sadly lead to death, but where life expectancies or 
disease progression could be altered - sometimes significantly - by prospective treatment. 
Im not saying that I think all available treatment options must be undertaken by a person 
with a terminal illness for the purposes of satisfying a terminal illness benefit claim. Each 
claim will depend on a policyholders specific condition and variables such as their
circumstances, the availability of any proposed treatment option, and the risks attached. It is 
a matter of choice for any claimant as to what, if any, available treatment is right for them. 
But I do think it is fair for an insurer to ask a policyholders consultant about any treatment, 
therapy or means of management for a condition which could have an impact upon his or 
her life expectancy, and notably where that treatment has commenced. That is what has 
happened here.
A CMOs opinion needs to be reasonably held, based on the evidence available. And it could 
conceivably be the case that there is a difference of professional opinion between a CMO 
and treating consultant. That notwithstanding, I dont find the CMO is disagreeing with 
Professor B. The CMO is also an oncologist. The CMO gave a view on the same clinical trial 
of Ms Ms treatment line as Professor B had referenced (albeit he quoted 35 months as a 
median survival rate). 
And Avivas justification for the refusal of the claim was based on the medical report from 
Professor B dated 24 September 2021. Professor B was asked to give a life expectancy for 
Ms M, referencing relevant data and her response to treatment in line with that data. 
He explained that metastatic cancer to these sites is incurable. The [NAME] trial has 
reported overall survival results, suggesting a mean or average overall survival of 37.5 
months from commencing the combination of [the two lines of therapy - a targeted cancer 
drug and hormone treatment]. Therefore, [Ms M] is doing slightly better than average at the 
current time, but could relapse soon.
Professor B provided imaging results from May 2021 and September 2021, where the latter 
confirmed that appearances [of the various sites of metastatic disease] are stable with no 
evidence of new disease. He stated how given Ms M remained stable at that time, her 
current WHO performance status is 0 i.e. excellent  but that would change when her 
disease relapses.   
As Ive said above, I find it fair for an insurer to consider evidence of any reasonable 
treatment option that may extend a terminally ill persons life expectancy. In order for Ms M and Mr H to make a valid claim, Professor B would need to have stated 
that before 1 October 2021, Ms M had less than twelve months to live - with that assessment 
including a consideration of the treatment she has had or could reasonably undergo in the 
future. As it stands, Professor Bs evidence does not give that confirmation.  
The policy terms above require the assessment of life expectancy at the date the condition 
is notified to the Company by the Policyholder  this was September 2021. Aviva is not 
unfair by taking the date at which Ms M and Mr H made the claim as the relevant date for the 
purposes of the terms. I realise Ms M feels this should be measured as at May 2019. But, 
even if I was to look at the matter retrospectively, the outcome would be the same given the 
median life expectancy Professor B has supplied from the reported clinical trial results, along 
with Ms Ms response to that treatment line. Aviva would therefore have refused the claim in 
2019, and the latest point it could revisit it would be 30 September 2021  which it has done. 
My remit is to determine if a business has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
In this case, that means whether Aviva has fairly interpreted the medical evidence before it 
when measuring that evidence against the terms of Mr H and Ms Ms insurance contract. I 
believe it has reached a reasonable outcome in concluding the terminal illness benefit 
definition hadnt been met at the time the claim was made. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr H and Ms M, I do not uphold their complaint for the reasons 
given above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman