DRN-2891097
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with the delays and service she received when she asked First Complete 
Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Networks mortgage adviser to arrange a re-mortgage.
What happened
Miss A had a fixed rate period on her existing mortgage which was due to come to an end on 
29 February 2020. She approached PRIMISs mortgage adviser in January 2020 with a view 
to re-mortgaging her property. And she had a meeting with the mortgage adviser on 4 
February 2020. Miss A says she provided everything required for an application to be 
submitted to the recommended lender for her re-mortgage at the beginning of February 
2020. But the adviser didnt submit the mortgage application until 4 June 2020.
In addition, when the offer was finally received Miss A realised that the product was not the 
one the adviser had previously recommended. 
The mortgage completed in July 2020.
Miss A complained to PRIMIS. She said in particular that shed chased repeatedly for 
updates from the mortgage adviser without success. And she said that the mortgage adviser 
had blamed the lender for the delays.
PRIMIS responded to Miss As complaint. It said, in summary:
it agreed that she had received poor service from the mortgage adviser which had 
led to significant delay in her re-mortgage being offered and completed and had 
caused her disappointment and stress;
While some of Miss As recollections were not the same as those of the mortgage 
adviser, it was clear that there had been a breakdown in communication from the firm 
during a time when Miss A thought the re-mortgage application had been submitted 
to the lender when it had not. And while Miss A had thought that some of the delays 
had been caused by the lender, its investigation showed this was not the case.
It was apparent that Miss A was aware on 4 June that the mortgage application had 
not been submitted in February 2020 as she had been led to believe up to that point. 
The adviser had confirmed that he had a discussion with her at that point regarding 
the changes to the best product for her on the day;
It was also apparent that once Miss A was aware that this was the case she agreed 
to continue with an application to the lender and accepted redress for the financial 
loss she had suffered up to that time from the firm. The mortgage adviser had paid 
her £318 in respect of the additional interest she was paying after her mortgage 
reverted to the standard variable rate from 1 March 2020. This was paid into her 
bank account in July. 
It calculated Miss A had suffered a further financial loss of £195 due to the difference 
in interest rates on her old and new mortgages. And it offered her the sum of £500 to 
take into consideration the additional interest and the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her. It also offered its sincere apologies for the experience she had 
suffered.
Miss A didnt agree with PRIMISs findings. She said that it was not apparent to her in June 
2020 that the mortgage adviser had not submitted her application to the lender and that he 
did not discuss the product applied for on that date. But PRIMIS didnt agree to increase the 
compensation offered to Miss A. It said in particular that as well as paying Miss A £318 
compensation the mortgage broker had also loaned her money to pay a tradesman, and he 
hadnt charged her for his services although his terms of business document noted he could 
charge up to £999.
Our investigator felt that PRIMIS had dealt with Miss As complaint fairly. She said, in 
summary:
It was clear from the correspondence between Miss A and the adviser that Miss A 
had believed that the delays in the process were caused by the lender. She felt that 
the adviser hadnt made it clear to her that this was not the case;
When Miss A received the mortgage offer on 16 June 2020 she noticed that the 
details didnt match the product she had discussed with the adviser on 4 February 
2020. The adviser said that hed had a discussion with her when the mortgage was 
offered in June 2020 about amending the term but Miss A said she had not. The 
investigator felt that the evidence Miss A had supplied supported her version of 
events. And she felt that the adviser should have been clear and direct with Miss A 
that the mortgage application was submitted in June 2020 rather than in February 
2020.
The adviser appeared to be embarrassed by the fact hed submitted the mortgage 
application so late. And hed made efforts to provide Miss A with redress prior to her 
complaint. He had paid her £318 for financial loss, had provided her with an interest 
free loan to pay her tradesman, and had not charged her for his services. 
Given the redress already provided the only outstanding loss was the remaining £195 
for financial loss, in respect of the difference in interest rates between Miss As old 
mortgage and the new one. 
In her opinion any distress or inconvenience caused to Miss A during her dealings 
with the adviser had been adequately compensated by the fact that she was not 
charged a fee for the service and by the £305 offered for distress and inconvenience. 
Miss A doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A has raised a large number of issues in relation to her complaint. Ive considered 
everything she has to say but have concentrated my decision on those issues which I find to 
be central to my decision.
Having carefully considered all the arguments and available evidence I have come to the 
same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the same reasons. I appreciate that this 
will come as a disappointment to Miss A so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
As our investigator has said, the adviser should have clearly explained to Miss A that the 
mortgage application was not submitted until June 2020. From the evidence Ive seen Im 
persuaded that Miss A believed that it was the lender causing at least some of the delays. 
This was not the case, and should have been clarified to Miss A earlier.In addition, although the adviser said that he spoke to Miss A about the changes to the 
product offered I also agree with our investigator that Miss As version of events is supported 
by the evidence she has supplied.
PRIMIS has accepted that its mortgage adviser didnt behave correctly. It apologised for the 
service Miss A received. And Miss A has received £318 compensation from the adviser for 
the difference between the higher interest rates payable to her previous lender from 1 March 
2020 and the rate she expected to pay had her new mortgage completed sooner. In addition, 
the adviser provided her with an interest free loan of £4,200 to enable her to pay her 
tradesman, and didnt charge her for his services. 
I note that Miss A says that the mortgage adviser never discussed a charge for his services 
with her. But Im satisfied that his terms and conditions of business allowed him to make a 
charge but he didnt do so.
PRIMIS has offered Miss A a further £500 redress. This comprises an additional £195 for 
financial loss in respect of the difference in interest rates and £305 for Miss As distress and 
inconvenience. 
I appreciate that Miss A feels that £305 isnt sufficient to compensate her for the trouble and 
upset she has suffered. But, while Ive carefully considered what she has to say, I find it to 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. In reaching this decision Ive taken 
account of the other compensation previously paid to Miss A. Ive also taken account of the 
fact that she was not charged a fee by the mortgage adviser.
I understand that Miss A says that she has had to spend a large amount of collating 
evidence in order to pursue her complaint. But, as our investigator has explained, we arent 
able to compensate consumers for their time in bringing their complaint. So this doesnt 
change my decision.
As I am persuaded that PRIMIS has dealt with Miss As complaint fairly I dont find it 
reasonable to ask it to do anything further. I will leave it to Miss A to decide whether to 
accept PRIMISs offer of £500 compensation (if she has not already done so).
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2021. 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman