DRN-3944477
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc returned a payment from an account he holds in his 
own name with another bank.
What happened
Mr S instructed a transfer of £100 from an account he holds in his name with another bank to 
his Santander account. However, Santander returned the payment to his other bank without 
explanation. Mr S wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Ss complaint. They explained that they hadnt found anything to 
suggest that there had been an error on their part but did apologise to Mr S for his 
experienced when trying to speak with Santander, including that a phone call had been cut 
off because of a system error. Mr S wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response Santander 
issued to Mr Ss complaint already represented a fair outcome. Mr S remained dissatisfied, 
so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Santander havent made an error here regarding Mr Ss 
attempted transfer. I say this because Santander have been able to confirm to my 
satisfaction that the Faster Payment ID provided by the sending bank didnt relate to Mr Ss 
Santander account. As such, Im satisfied that Santander shouldnt fairly or reasonably be 
considered as being responsible for the attempted payment not being successful. 
Mr S feels that it cant be the case that Santander werent provided with the correct 
information to enable to transfer to have been successful. I cant comment on the actions of 
the sending bank here, as this complaint is focussed on whether Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably. But as explained above, I am satisfied that Santander didnt receive the 
information necessary for them to successfully complete the transfer, and as such I remain 
satisfied that Santander havent acted unfairly here.
I also must note that there appears to have been relatively little tangible impact on Mr S as a 
result of the transfer not completing. And I say this because following the unsuccessful 
transfer attempt, Mr S was able to attempt the transfer again, which successfully went 
through. And while I appreciate that Mr S might feel that Santander should pay him 
compensation for his having to input the transfer for a second time, I wouldnt conclude that 
Mr S having to instruct the transfer for a second time would represent a level of 
inconvenience so as to merit any form of compensation here, even if I were to consider 
Santander to have acted unfairly  which as explained above, I do not.
Finally, Santander have also explained to my satisfaction that the reason a telephone call 
between themselves and Mr S was ended before it should have ended was because of a 
system error, which unfortunately also meant that Santanders agent was unable to call Mr S 
back. Santander have apologised to Mr S for his experience in this regard, and I dont think 
any further action beyond this apology is merited in this instance.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take 
any further action. I trust that Mr S will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman