DRN-3167336
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A on behalf of M and M are unhappy Starling Bank Limited (Starling) havent 
refunded them £59,000 they lost in an authorised push payment (APP) impersonation / 
email scam.
  
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary:
On 22 July 2020 Mr and Mrs A, after increasing their transfer / payment limit, made a 
transfer of £59,000 to the account of a scammer. 
They did so under the mistaken belief that they were transferring money to their 
solicitor. The funds were to be used for their companys first purchase of a property.
Unfortunately, the email that was sent to Mr A setting out the details of the account 
he should make the payment to hadnt been sent by the solicitor. It had been sent by 
a fraudster and made to look as if it were a legitimate email from the solicitor. 
On 23 July 2020, Mr and Mrs As genuine solicitor sent an email advising its 
customers that fraudsters had been impersonating its company. Mr A contacted the 
solicitors who advised that they had not requested or received the funds. Mr A 
reported the fraud to Starling straight away. Starling attempted to recover the money 
Mr and Mrs A had lost but were advised by the receiving bank that unfortunately no 
funds remained.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). 
This is a voluntary scheme Starling has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that 
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances.  
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse include (so far as they might 
be relevant to this complaint) where the firm can establish that: 
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. 
When assessing whether it can establish these things, the firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
On 7 August 2020 Starling provided an initial response to Mr and Mrs A where it offered to 
reimburse 66% of the loss. This was sent in error. Starling, on 11 August 2020, explained to 
Mr and Mrs A that an incorrect outcome letter had been sent and advised it wasnt upholding 
the complaint. It said it had sufficient fraud measures in place and considered Mr and Mrs A 
hadnt carried out any sufficient checks prior to making the payment.
Mr and Mrs A formally complained to Starling about the matter, with Starling issuing its final 
response on 4 September 2020. Starling remained of the opinion that it wasnt liable for 
Mr and Mrs As loss but offered £100 as compensation for providing an incorrect outcome 
letter on 7 August 2020.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs A referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. They considered the warnings 
Starling provided werent effective  and also found that Mr and Mrs A had a reasonable 
basis for belief when making the payment. So they didnt think it was reasonable for Starling 
to choose not to reimburse Mr and Mrs A under the provisions of the CRM Code.  
The investigator said Starling ought to refund the amount Mr and Mrs A lost as result of the 
scam and pay 8% simple interest on the amount from the date Starling should have 
reimbursed Mr and Mrs A under the CRM Code.
With regard to the compensation Starling offered for the service it provided in sending 
Mr and Mrs A an incorrect outcome letter, our investigator thought the £100 was fair. 
Starling disagreed with the investigators opinion and remained of the opinion that Mr and 
Mrs A hadnt carried out sufficient checks prior to making the payment.
In short, Starling had concerns about the email Mr and Mrs A received which led to them 
making the payment. They considered the tone wasnt personalised as per other email 
correspondence between Mr and Mrs A and the genuine solicitor, the reference had 
changed within the email subject and the fraudulent emails contained an incomplete footer 
with no contact details or link to the solicitors website. 
Starling also considered that the account name used for the payment was different to that 
which Mr and Mrs A had used when paying the genuine solicitors previously. They 
considered that a google search of the account name Mr and Mrs A were given would have 
shown that the company name was used in conjunction with a freight transport company.
Starling also pointed to a warning that was provided by the genuine solicitors on one of the 
emails it had sent previously  which advised that it would not change bank details during 
the course of a transaction. Starling argued that as Mr and Mrs A had made a payment to 
the genuine solicitors previously then Mr and Mrs A should have sought to verify the details. 
Our investigator reviewed Starlings response but remained of the opinion that Mr and Mrs A 
had a reasonable basis of belief when making the payment.
As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Starling should have refunded the money Mr and 
Mrs A lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Starling should fairly and reasonably refund the money 
Mr and Mrs A lost less any sums already recovered and refunded and;
Pay simple interest on this amount, from the date Mr and Mrs A should have been 
refunded under the CRM Code to the date of the settlement. The interest rate should 
be 8% a year. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Starling to take off tax from this interest. Starling must give Mr and 
Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
I have carefully considered Starlings representations about the warning(s) it gave and 
whether Mr and Mrs A had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. 
But they do not persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs A failed to take the requisite level of care required for Starling to choose not to 
reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met because:
The warning Mr and Mrs A were provided with upon adding and paying a new payee 
states: Could this be part of a scam? Always verify who you are sending money to 
as you may not be able to recover these funds. This warning is generic, and it 
doesnt bring to life that emails can be spoofed / intercepted, or businesses 
impersonated. Mr and Mrs A hadnt fallen victim to an impersonation / email scam 
before. So receiving the bank account details from whom they believed was their 
solicitor would have meant that Mr and Mrs A wouldnt have thought to further verify 
the details. 
Starling has explained a High risk payment warning was also given. Purchase was 
the option chosen for the payment and the following warning was provided which 
said:
Fraudsters often pretend to sell items online. Theyll take your money and send you
nothing in return. If you have not seen the item in person perform checks on the 
seller, including feedback from other purchases where possible. Have they asked 
you to pay quickly or requested payment via bank transfer instead of by card or 
PayPal, which could provide you with more protection?I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs A to select the payment purpose as 
Purchase. But the warning they were provided, and the previous warning when 
adding and paying a new payee, werent specific to the type of scam that Mr and 
Mrs A were unfortunately falling victim to that would have a meaningfully affected Mr 
and Mrs As decision making. They dont bring to life what an impersonation email 
scam looks or feels like. The warnings dont explain that emails can be intercepted or 
spoofed by fraudsters and that bank account details can be changed, and the 
Purchase warning doesnt explain what steps Mr and Mrs A could take to ensure the 
bank details are correct such as verbally confirming them with the genuine payee.
So, I dont think the warnings were impactful or specific enough here and I can see 
why it would not have had a material impact on preventing the fraud.
Im also mindful that the Purchase warning doesnt include steps to ensure that 
Mr and Mrs A reasonably understood the consequences of continuing with an 
irrevocable payment  which is a requirement of an effective warning under the CRM 
Code.
 
Im also satisfied that Starling has not shown that Mr and Mrs A lacked a reasonable basis of 
belief because:
First, it is important to note that Mr and Mrs A werent aware of how email 
impersonation / intercept scams worked and havent previously been a victim to this 
type of scam. They were expecting to make a payment in regard to the property they 
were purchasing. The email address cleverly included the name of the person they 
had been dealing with at the solicitors. The only difference between the two email 
addresses was that within the email address from the fraudster there was one letter 
difference. Instead of law.co.uk, Low.co.uk was used. I can see why, in the 
circumstances, that they reasonably believed that it was an email from their solicitor 
and wouldnt have been on the lookout for any minor subtle differences. As they were 
expecting to make a payment  and received an email which they believed had come 
from their solicitor, I think their focus would have moved swiftly to the payment 
instructions.
I have seen a copy of the emails from the genuine solicitor and the scammer. The 
email from the scammer providing the account details, in my opinion, is not too 
dissimilar in tone or style to that of the genuine solicitor. While there were some 
subtle differences  with the font and the layout of the signature at the bottom being 
slightly different, overall it does appear or have a similar feel to those emails sent by 
the genuine solicitors. Im mindful as stated above that the email address included 
the name of the representative they were dealing with at the solicitors alongside the 
name of the firm (albeit one letter out). It is important to remember that Mr and Mrs A 
received an email that on the face of it appeared to them as genuine  and the 
amount of time Mr and Mrs A looked at the email would have been more to focus on 
the instructions as opposed to looking out for any subtle differences. With hindsight 
and with time, the differences can be noted, such as the incomplete footer having no 
contact number or link to the solicitors website. But in my opinion, Mr and Mrs A 
looking at the email in real time, and believing it was an email from their solicitors 
wouldnt have spotted anything to give them concern. I dont think Mr and Mrs A 
acted unreasonably  so much so  to say that they didnt meet their requisite level of 
care under the CRM Code to not be reimbursed.Im also mindful, Mr and Mrs A were expecting to make a payment, and that they 
werent aware of how email intercept scams worked. Im satisfied they had no 
concern about whether the emails were legitimate when they received them and, in 
the circumstances, I think this was understandable.
While Starling has said the account name should have given Mr and Mrs A concerns 
and a google of the name used would have shown it was for a freight company, I 
disagree. The fraudulent email providing the payment instructions sets out that it is a 
client care account. I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs A, given they reasonably believed 
the email was form their genuine solicitor, to google an account name that had been 
provided to them. Mr and Mrs A have also said they thought paying a client care 
account was normal practice and they didnt think anything of it. I think this is 
understandable and reasonable. The email, in essence, provided the account details 
of where the payment was to be made to. Im mindful solicitors and / or businesses 
often have multiple accounts for a variety of reasons, and the accounts arent always 
necessarily in the name of said business and can be called something different. 
Overall, given the very genuine and plausible feel to the email, alongside Mr and 
Mrs A expecting to make a payment and being unaware of how email intercept 
scams worked, I cant say Mr and Mrs A should have had any cause for concern or 
reason to be suspicious.
Starling has also pointed to a warning the genuine solicitors provided in a footer of an 
email sent to Mr and Mrs A previously which advised that the solicitors wouldnt 
change bank details during the course of a transaction. But I am mindful that the 
warning was provided a considerable period of time before this scam. I dont think it 
was unreasonable or unsurprising for that to not have been in the forefront of Mr and 
Mrs As mind when making the payment. And in any event, it is arguable to suggest 
that the details werent changing during the course of the transaction. While Mr and 
Mrs A had paid the solicitors previously  the £59,000 payment was for purchase of 
the property, and to Mr and Mrs As mind, was being paid to the client care account. 
The warning Mr and Mrs A received from the solicitor warned against bank details 
changing during the course of a single transaction  so, a scenario whereby Mr and 
Mrs A received bank details from the solicitor and then promptly received a further 
email advising that the bank details had changed before any payment instruction had 
been given. Whereas in this case, Mr and Mrs A received instructions for the 
purchase itself and paid the account details they had been provided with. 
All things considered, Mr and Mrs A fell victim to a sophisticated scam.  Im not satisfied that 
Starling has shown that Mr and Mrs A ignored an effective warning or lacked a reasonable 
basis of belief when making the payment. So it follows that under the provisions of the CRM 
Code Mr and Mrs A should have been reimbursed for the funds they lost.
With regard to the £100 compensation Starling offered and paid for the incorrect outcome 
letter it sent Mr and Mrs A, I think this is a fair amount. I do acknowledge that it would have 
been distressing to receive an incorrect letter, but I note when Mr and Mrs A contacted 
Starling about it, it identified and apologised for its error and then provided the outcome, it 
should have sent initially, in a timely manner.My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about Starling Bank Limited  and I therefore require it to:
Refund the amount lost as a result of the scam within 28 days of receiving notification 
of acceptance of my final decision; plus
Pay simple interest on this amount, from the date Starling Bank Limited should 
reasonably have refunded the amount under the CRM Code to the date of the 
settlement. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Starling Bank Limited to take off tax from this interest. Starling 
Bank Limited must give Mr and Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A on 
behalf of M and M to accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman