DRN-1326764
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
dealt with her motor vehicle insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs W had a motor vehicle insurance policy with Advantage. The named driver on her policy 
was using the car on 26 July 2019 when it was, unfortunately, stolen from a car park. Mrs W 
submitted a claim the day after the theft of the car. 
Mrs W complained to Advantage in August 2019 about how her claim was being handled. 
Advantage responded on 22 August 2019 and said Mrs Ws complaint was about a 
substitute car not being provided quickly enough; that the substitute car wasnt like for like; 
that she needed to chase updates; that there were delays in relation to the collection of her 
car; and that she needed to provide Advantage with a theft report form. 
Advantage said there isnt a standard level agreement in relation to how quickly a substitute 
vehicle needs to be provided, but it said the vehicle provided wasnt like-for-like and it 
apologised for that. It agreed that Mrs W had to contact it an excessive number of times and 
that it took too long for it to collect her vehicle and so offered £100 compensation. In relation 
to the theft report form, Advantage said its vital that its provided with this form. 
Mrs Ws car was assessed as a total write off on 19 September 2019 and she was offered a 
settlement amount of £22,500, which she accepted. 
Mrs W then complained again to Advantage about the lack of communication from the 
claims department over a two-month period. And the delays in having her car removed from 
the police pound and the considerable difficulties around having it placed in a suitable 
garage. Mrs W also said she had to speak to various third-party companies involved with the 
claim and the provision of a substitute car, including speaking to them while she was on 
holiday with her family. 
Advantage responded to this complaint on 8 October 2019 and apologised for the overall 
service provided, as it said it fell well short of its own customer service standards. It said 
there was a lack of updates provided to Mrs W and a failure to respond to Mrs Ws requests. 
And it said this forced Mrs W to chase for updates and she had to deal with a number of 
outsourced companies, which is not acceptable. Advantage also said there were 
unnecessary delays in sourcing an approved repairer and returning vehicle keys. It 
acknowledged the stress and inconvenience caused to Mrs W and offered a further £400 
compensation.  
Mrs W was unhappy with the response from Advantage and complained to this service in 
October 2019. 
When our investigator contacted Advantage about the complaint it said that in addition to the 
£500 compensation already offered, it paid over £2,500 to hire a vehicle for Mrs W that she 
wasnt entitled to under the terms of the policy. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and said Mrs W had substitute vehicle cover on her 
policy and the incident met the requirements to use the cover. So Advantage should have 
instructed the administrators of the cover on the day the claim was registered, which was 27 
July 2019. But it didnt do this and Mrs W had to chase it up two days later. So Mrs W was 
without a courtesy car for two days. A substitute vehicle was then provided until 21 August 
2019. 
Our investigator said Mrs Ws car was not collected by Advantages salvage agents until 
around 15 days after it was recovered by police and was available for collection. She said 
Advantage accepted there were some delays in its approved repairer allocating a garage to 
repair Mrs Ws car and Mrs W wasnt provided with a courtesy car from 21 August 2019 to 
23 August 2019. Mrs W was due to go away on holiday and so Advantage arranged to 
provide a courtesy car from 23 August 2019 to 11 October 2019.
Our investigator said an in independent engineer assessed the car a write off (total loss) on 
19 September 2019. And Mrs W was not entitled to a courtesy car if the car has been 
deemed a total loss. So this means the courtesy car should have terminated on 19 
September 2019. Advantage said as a gesture of goodwill it had decided to keep Mrs W in 
the courtesy car until she received a pay-out for her vehicle on 27 September 2019. 
Advantage said it had kept Mrs W in the hire car for a further 2 weeks after it had settled the 
claim as a gesture of goodwill, to give her time to source a new vehicle.
Our investigator said Advantage has accepted there was poor communication and some 
delays during the claim process. It has apologised for the poor service and paid £500 in total 
as compensation for this. It also provided a courtesy car for an extended period when it 
didnt have to. Our investigator considered the impact this had on Mrs W, including the time 
spent dealing with this during her holiday, but said Advantage have done enough to 
compensate for this, so she didnt ask it to do anything more.
Our investigator said Advantage cant deal with certain aspects of Mrs Ws complaint about 
the substitute vehicle cover she purchased as an additional product  such as the delay in 
provision of a substitute vehicle, or the fact that the vehicle wasnt like for like  as the cover 
is administered by a different insurer. Our investigator provided Mrs W with information 
about how to make a separate complaint to that insurer. 
Mrs W didnt agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
But before I do, I wanted to clarify that Mrs Ws cover in relation to the provision of a 
substitute car is an add-on to her car insurance cover and a separate insurer, so not 
Advantage, is responsible for providing that cover. This decision is about the complaint 
against Advantage. If Mrs W wants to submit a complaint about the other insurer, she will 
need to make a separate complaint. And I can see our investigator has already provided Mrs 
W with the relevant information about how she can do that. By the time Mrs Ws complaint was brought to this service, her claim had been settled. So 
Mrs Ws complaint is about the various delays she experienced while Advantage was 
dealing with her claim, as well as the overall service she received from Advantage. 
Advantage has already agreed that it fell far short of its own customer service standards in a 
number of different ways, and so I am looking at whether the amount of compensation its 
already offered is enough. 
And before looking at whether Mrs W has received an appropriate amount of compensation, 
I should explain that when someone has cause to make a car insurance claim, its inevitable 
that they will experience some level of unavoidable inconvenience. So we wouldnt expect 
an insurer to compensate for any and all inconveniences experienced following a claim.   
Having said that, I can see that there were a number of what I think were avoidable delays  
in particular with arrangements being made to take Mrs Ws car to a suitable repairer  and 
so Mrs W felt she needed to chase both Advantage and the various third parties involved to 
check what was happening and to ensure all parties also knew what was happening. Mrs W 
felt that she had to get more involved than a consumer might ordinarily be during the claims 
process and I think its understandable why she felt this. The amount of toing and froing she 
did between the various parties was excessive and she shouldnt have needed to do this. 
I can also see that there were delays with Mrs W getting a substitute car, because 
Advantage waited until two days after the claim was submitted before it started the process 
to get this arranged for Mrs W. Its the case that the substitute policy cover doesnt, as 
Advantage suggested, have a service level agreement that is specific about how quickly a 
consumer should be given a substitute car after an insured event. But, regardless of that, I 
would expect Advantage to make the request for the car as soon as possible once the claim 
is made. And I see no reason why this couldnt have been done on the day the claim was 
made by Mrs W. And I can see there was a further two-day delay in August 2019, in making 
arrangements for a second substitute car. 
I know that Mrs W had her family holiday disturbed by having to make contact with various 
third parties. And Mrs W also said she had to leave earlier than planned on the last day of 
her holiday to check if her car had been delivered to the repairer. And Ive taken this into 
consideration when looking at what amount of compensation should be awarded. 
However, I dont intend to ask Advantage to increase the amount of compensation its 
already offered, as its in line with the amount this service would most likely have suggested 
had it not already been offered. I know that Mrs W has experienced a good deal of 
inconvenience during the claims process, and its not my intention to suggest otherwise 
when I say that the compensation already offered is enough. Its my understanding that 
Advantage has already paid the £500 compensation to Mrs W. 
After our investigator had issued her assessment, Mrs W asked her to look into what 
happened after Advantage paid the claim settlement amount and sold her car. She felt 
Advantage had recouped some of its losses by selling her car through auction and she 
wanted the sale of her car to be looked into in more detail. But we arent able to look into 
this. Once a car is written off and the settlement amount has been paid, the car belongs to 
the insurance company and not the consumer. So a consumer cant make a complaint about 
a vehicle that no longer belongs to them. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman