DRN-2778940
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a 
claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F and Mrs F contacted Aviva to make a claim for storm damage when render came off 
their chimney during a storm. Aviva declined the claim because it said wind would only have 
been able to get under the render if there were already issues with the render. It said it 
thought the damage was most likely due to wear and tear.
When Mr F and Mrs F complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. He 
said he didnt think Aviva had done enough to show the damage was the result of pre-
existing damage. He said Aviva should reassess the claim.
As Aviva did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
I issued my provisional decision on 4 May 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning not to uphold this complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at the weather conditions for the date the damage 
happened and can see that there were wind speeds that would be regarded as storm 
conditions. I also note that Aviva doesnt dispute that there was a storm on that date.
For the second question, Ive looked at the description of the damage provided by both Mr F 
and Mrs F and their builder who quoted for the work. This was that the render was damaged 
and needed to be repaired. In my view, I dont think that if render is in good condition that a 
storm would typically cause it to detach from brickwork. Such damage normally happens 
gradually, so is generally a sign of wear and tear. So, I think the answer to this question and 
the third question is no. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to decide that the main cause of 
the damage was more likely to be wear and tear, which was highlighted by the storm.
However, Im aware there was also an issue with Aviva sending out a surveyor. So Ive also 
thought about this. Aviva didnt send a surveyor to inspect the damage. When our 
investigator was looking at the complaint, Aviva told him that it had offered to send a 
surveyor, but that Mrs F had refused the visit.
Avivas claim notes said: Asked of we could send someone out, advised no (as original). 
Ive listened to that phone call and, in my view, that call note inaccurately, or at least 
ambiguously, describes what was discussed. I didnt hear any discussion about whether 
Aviva would send a surveyor to assess the claim. However, Mrs F asked if Aviva could 
suggest someone who could quote for the work because she was finding it difficult to find 
anyone to do this. The call handler said that he wasnt able to recommend anyone. So, I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr F and Mrs F refused to allow a surveyor to visit. 
So, Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for Aviva not to send anyone and whether 
it would have made a difference if it had. An insurer isnt obliged to send a surveyor to 
assess every claim. The onus is also on the policyholder to show they have a valid claim. 
The only damage reported by Mr F and Mrs F was to the render. Ive also read the quote 
from Mr F and Mrs Fs builder and this only listed work to repair the render. So, I think its 
more likely than not that if Aviva had sent a surveyor that all they would have found was 
damage to the render. As Ive already said above, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to say 
that render in good condition wouldnt normally be damaged by a storm in the way 
described. So, even if Aviva has sent a surveyor, I think its more likely than not that Aviva 
would still have concluded that the damage was caused by wear and tear, rather than by a 
storm. 
As a result, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or require Aviva to do anything 
further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 3 June 2021. Both parties replied before that date.
Aviva had nothing further to add.
Mr F and Mrs F said if the issue had been tiles coming off a roof during a storm that would 
have been dealt with as an insurance issue, even if there were signs of wear and tear or 
maintenance issues. They said it was a slippery slope for insurers to be able to use 
maintenance issues as a reason not to pay a claim. They also said they thought it was 
unreasonable that Aviva didnt send a surveyor and that although they might have concluded 
that it was wear and tear, the surveyor also might not have done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my decision not to uphold this complaint. As part of 
that I considered Mr F and Mrs Fs comments and I understand their strength of views about 
their claim. Exclusions for wear and tear and maintenance issues are common in insurance 
policies, so it isnt unusual that these were in the policy. These exclusions would also 
commonly apply to any claim, including where roof tiles had been damaged during a storm. 
So, a claim for damaged roof tiles could also be turned down on the grounds of maintenance 
or wear and tear, depending on the circumstances of that specific claim.
Ive also thought about what Mr F and Mrs F said about sending a surveyor. As I previously 
explained, Aviva wasnt obliged to send a surveyor to assess the claim. It is also standard in 
insurance for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. So, I 
think it was reasonable for Aviva to assess the claim based on the evidence provided, which 
was that the only damage was to the render, and for it to consider the factors that commonly 
cause such damage, which is normally wear and tear. I cant say for certain what would have 
happened if a surveyor had visited and it now isnt possible for that to happen, as the repairs have been carried out. However, based on the evidence Ive seen I think it was reasonable 
for Aviva to decide the damage was the result of wear and tear, which isnt an insured event.
My final decision 
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman