DRN-4420069
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Startline 
Motor Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Startline. He paid a deposit of £1,200 and the agreement was for £13,045 over 58 months; 
with 57 monthly payments of £339.77 and a final payment of £349.77. At the time of supply, 
the car was around eight years old, and had done 98,355 miles.
Mr C started to have problems with the car shortly after it was supplied to him, and the 
supplying dealership repaired the fuel injectors. The car broke down on multiple occasions 
after this, and each time a further repair was completed. Mr C raised his complaint with 
Startline, and they arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer.
In a report dated 28 March 2023, the engineer said, it was obvious that two [fuel] injectors 
have not been fitted / sealed correctly  and hot gasses permitted to leak as a result [which] 
have burnt the outer areas of the injectors and cylinder head. 
The engineer went on to conclude that the evidence of long term incorrect sealing of the 
injectors has led us to conclude that the vehicle has undergone a poor repair previously; it is 
unclear when the repair was carried out, but [the evidence supplied by Mr C] does indicate 
this was pre-existing, prior to the date of purchase.
As a result of this, Startline agreed to unwind the agreement and take back the car. They 
also said they would keep back ten payments for Mr Cs usage of the car, that theyd refund 
him the remaining payments hed made, and pay him an additional £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr C wasnt happy with Startlines offer, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that Startline should refund Mr C the £1,200 deposit he paid, plus any 
payments hed paid after September 2022 (when Mr C stopped using the car), along with 
statutory interest. He also said that Startline should reimburse Mr C the £2,455.19 costs hed 
incurred trying to repair the car, and pay him a total of £200 compensation for the trouble 
and inconvenience hed been caused.
I issued a provisional view on 11 October 2023, where I explained my intention to uphold the 
complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Startline are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Startline can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr C to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr C took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Startline to put this right.
In this instance, its not disputed there was a problem with the fuel injectors, nor that this 
fault was present when the car was supplied to Mr C. As such, Im satisfied that I dont need 
to consider the merits of this issue within my decision. Instead, Ill focus on what I think 
Startline should do to put things right.
The investigator said that Mr C had use of the car until September 2022, after which point it 
wasnt working as expected, or it wasnt on the road. So, he recommended that Startline 
refund all the payments made after September 2022.
Mr C had an engineer inspect the car in September 2022, November 2022, and February 
2023. The report dated 28 February 2023 shows repairs had been carried out to the car, and 
that Mr C continued to use the car after these repairs. It wasnt until February 2023 that Mr C 
was told to stop using the car.
Ive seen a paid invoice for £1,894.52, dated 7 November 2022. This is for an investigation 
into the fuel injector issue, as well as for a service, and an issue with the radio that Mr C 
acknowledges occurred after hed been supplied with the car. From what Ive seen, it doesnt 
seem to be disputed that only £340.01 of the costs relate to the fuel injector problem. The 
invoice also shows the car had done 105,785 miles.
Ive also seen a paid invoice for £2,099.18, dated 2 December 2022, for the investigation 
and attempted repair of an issue with the fuel injectors. This invoice shows the cars mileage 
to be 106,608 miles.
Mr C has confirmed the car was in for repair between 27 September and 3 November 2022 
(6 days), between 22 and 30 November 2022 (8 days), and between 2 February and 31 May 
2023.
Finally, the independent engineers report of 28 March 2023, referred to above, shows the 
car had done 108,293 miles at this point.
Based on what Ive seen, Mr C did 7,430 miles between 21 January and 7 November 2022  
about 825 miles a month. In the roughly a month between 7 November and 2 December 
2022 he did 823 miles. And between 2 December 2022 and 2 February 2023 (when the car 
went in for a diagnostic that resulted in him being told not to drive the car), Mr C did 1,685 
miles  about 840 miles a month.Based on this, Im satisfied that Mr C continued to use the car, at the same rate he always 
had done, until it went in for a diagnostic and repair on 2 February 2023. As such I think he 
should only be refunded any payments hes made from February 2023 onwards.
However, Mr C has provided evidence of the costs hes incurred in having the fuel injector 
issue with the car inspected, and repairs attempted. Given that the car wasnt of a 
satisfactory quality when supplied, I think its only fair that Startline reimburse these costs.
Finally, its clear that Mr C has been inconvenienced by having to arrange for the car to be 
repaired, and by any repairs being unsuccessful, as well as being without a car for short 
periods while it was being repaired. So, I think Startline should compensate him for this. The 
investigator had recommended Startline pay him a total of £200, which is in line with what I 
wouldve directed had no recommendation been made. So, I see no compelling reason not 
to adopt this as part of my final decision.
Therefore, if they havent already done so, I think that Startline should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr C;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Cs credit file;
refund the £1,200 deposit Mr C paid;
refund any payments Mr C made from February 2023 onwards;
reimburse Mr C with the £2,455.19 he paid in having the car inspected, and repairs 
attempted;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds/reimbursements, calculated from the 
date Mr C made the payments to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr C a total of £200 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to take off tax from this interest. Startline must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
Responses
Startline didnt respond to my provisional view.
Mr C said hed already received some compensation from Startline, but he thought it was 
unfair for them to withhold ten monthly payments and refund him a different amount to what 
hed originally been quoted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Startline havent said anything to the contrary, Im taking their lack of comments to mean 
they dont object to my provisional view.
Ive noted Mr Cs comments about the ten months payments being retained by Startline. 
However, as explained in my provisional view, Mr C continued to use the car until 2 February 
2023. So, I think its only fair that he pays for this usage. As such, I dont think he should be 
refunded any payments hed made before this date.I also appreciate that Startline mayve told Mr C they were paying him one amount, and then 
paid him a different amount. While this shouldnt have happened, my provisional view lays 
out what I think is fair compensation for Startline to pay.
As such, the comments Ive received dont change my view that Mr C should be allowed to 
reject the car. And, given this, I see no compelling reason why I shouldnt now adopt my 
provisional view as my final decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons already given, if they havent already done so, Startline should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr C;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Cs credit file;
refund the £1,200 deposit Mr C paid;
refund any payments Mr C made from February 2023 onwards;
reimburse Mr C with the £2,455.19 he paid in having the car inspected, and repairs 
attempted;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds/reimbursements, calculated from the 
date Mr C made the payments to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr C a total of £200 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to take off tax from this interest. Startline must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
If Startline have already paid Mr C some compensation, this should be deducted from the 
total compensation as detailed above, and the difference should be paid to Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint about Startline Motor Finance Limited. 
And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman