DRN-4496128
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Revolut Ltd has decided not to refund her after she was the victim of 
an authorised push payment scam.
 
What happened
Miss F applied for a number of jobs online and received a response via text message, to say 
shes been shortlisted for a commission-based role earning £80-£200 a day. Thinking it was 
for a well-known international airline, she agreed. 
She was told she needed to open a new e-money account with Revolut as well an account 
with a crypto-currency trading platform (which Ill refer to as B). She was told she needed to 
deposit money into these accounts, which she would later be able to withdraw out again (this 
all formed part of the job she thought she was doing). Miss F opened the Revolut account 
on 27 October 2023. 
In total, Miss F made eight card payments and one bank transfer from her Revolut account, 
totalling £3,806.34.
Miss F made three card payments to B on 27 and 28 October 2023. She reported these as 
unauthorised transactions to Revolut, using its online chat feature. She said she hadnt 
made the transactions and didnt recognise them. Revolut asked a few questions and raised 
chargebacks, but these were unsuccessful as Revolut concluded the transactions had been 
authorised by Miss F. Revolut asked Miss F further questions on 29 and 30 October 2023 
but Miss F didnt respond. 
Between 29 and 30 October 2023, Miss F continued to make card payments to B. Revoluts 
systems intervened with card payments three and six, declining them initially, saying it 
detected a potential scam. It asked Miss F to review the risks of making the payments and if 
she thought they were legitimate she could retry the payments and they wouldnt be 
declined. Miss F continued with the payments. The seventh transaction was a bank transfer 
to a named individual. Revoluts automated systems asked Miss F what the payment 
purpose was, Miss F selected paying friends and family and the payment reason as paying 
back for something they purchased on my behalf. Revolut says Miss F received a warning 
which said do you know and trust this payee? If youre unsure, dont pay them, as we may 
not be able to help you get your money back. Revolut says Miss F acknowledged this 
warning and continued with the payment.
Revolut looked into Miss Fs complaint. It said it wouldnt be refunding her in the instance 
and went on to explain why: 
- For the bank transfer  Miss F was given a warning at the time - which was 
proportionate. 
- For the card payments  fraud chargeback claims were raised and declined. Miss F 
originally claimed the initial payments as unauthorised which it found she had 
authorised. And a claim about a dispute would be for situations where the goods 
and/or services were not supplied. Here neither chargeback would have been 
successful. 
- This was an electronic money account which is typically used for crypto, so the 
payments from Miss Fs account werent unusual.
- Miss F authorised the payments from her account despite her saying initially they 
were unauthorised.
The payments from Miss Fs Revolut account are in part funded by card payments from Miss 
Fs bank account (held elsewhere). Whilst we havent been provided with the full statements 
Miss F has been at least partially refunded for some of those payments by her bank.
Miss F said this has had a huge impact on her well-being and health. She says Revolut 
havent handled her complaint properly, they didnt ask her what happened and wants 
Revolut to properly investigate, so the scammers dont get away with it and she is 
compensated for her losses. 
Unhappy with this outcome Miss F brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things. She concluded that Revolut may have made an 
error for the chargeback reason that it raised, but in any event, a chargeback wouldnt have 
been successful as Miss F paid for and received the crypto-currrency. So, these were 
genuine payments and receipt of goods transactions.
She also went on to say that Revolut provided warnings and questioned the reasoning for 
the transfer as it was raised as suspicious. The warning wasnt relevant to the scam Miss F 
had fallen victim to, but the investigator said that intervention was proportionate. And 
although Revolut said there had been a call back request on two occasions, which wasnt 
fulfilled, she was satisfied this hadnt made a difference to the overall outcome of events. 
She concluded Revolut had attempted to be helpful and provided clear communication. 
Overall, she didnt recommend that Revolut was responsible to refund Miss F for her losses 
in this instance. 
Miss F didnt accept that outcome. She said although she agreed that Revolut had asked 
what the payment was for, her other bank account provider had refunded her, so she 
thought Revolut ought to do the same. She complained the same day the money left her 
account and if Revolut had a telephone number she could have called and Revolut could 
have responded more quickly. And she added she would be happy with a partial refund to 
resolve the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F attempted to raise chargebacks for the debit card payments made to B  in relation to 
this scam.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder. Such arbitration is 
subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited grounds and limited forms 
of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be considered valid, and potentially 
succeed. Time limits also apply.Miss F was dealing with someone pretending to offer her a job, which involved her making 
card payments to B and then transactions from that platform on to the scammers. But, she 
paid a separate cryptocurrency trading platform (B). This is important because Revolut was 
only to process chargeback claims against the merchant she paid (B), not another party. The 
service provided by B would have been to convert or facilitate the conversion of Miss Fs 
payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, B provided the service that was requested; that 
being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt 
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Miss F paid. As B provided the 
requested service to Miss F any chargeback attempt would likely fail. And the chargeback 
reason of fraud was not successful because Miss F authorised the payments and the fraud 
chargeback reason is for payments the consumer didnt make, which wasnt the case here.
Despite initially saying she didnt recognise and authorise the first payments to B, Miss F has 
now accepted she authorised all the payments. So, the starting point here is that Miss F is 
responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty 
to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on 
large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Revolut should have been aware of the scam and stepped in. 
And if it had stepped in, would it have been able to prevent the scam.
The investigator thought that the intervention by Revolut here was proportionate and I agree. 
Miss F set up a new account with Revolut and made small value card payments to B. 
Although she reported the first three card payments as fraudulent Revolut was able to 
determine that Miss F had in fact authorised them. Revolut intervened with card payments 
three and six with a warning. And although that warning wasnt specific to Miss Fs 
circumstances, Im satisfied the intervention was proportionate given the value and nature of 
the payments. Miss F wasnt truthful in her responses to the additional questions asked 
about the payment purpose for the bank transfer. But again, Im satisfied that Revoluts 
responses here were proportionate given what it knew about the value and nature of the 
payments, and Miss Fs responses to the questions she was asked.
Theres an argument that Revolut ought to have been concerned that Miss F initially 
reported the first three card payments as unauthorised and before that matter was fully 
resolved she then carried on making payments to the same merchant  B. But I think given 
Miss Fs actions and responses to the questions she was asked, its unlikely further or better 
intervention, would have made a difference. Im not persuaded Revolut would have exposed 
the scam with further proportionate intervention or questioning.  
Miss F argues that Revolut ought to have acted sooner when she reported the matter. But 
ultimately Miss Fs card payments to B were for the purchase of cryptocurrency. So even if 
Revolut had been able to act sooner its unlikely that it would have made a difference. That 
part of the overall scam involved a genuine purchase and wasnt of itself fraudulent. 
Miss F received a partial refund from her bank account provider which included payments 
made into her Revolut account. So those funds in part have already been considered and 
refunded by another bank and Miss F wouldnt be entitled to a refund of those same funds 
with Revolut in any event. 
Miss F was also unhappy with the service she received from Revolut. And I can see she has 
expressed how this issue has impacted her well-being. Ultimately the distress was caused 
by the scammers rather than Revolut. And I think Revolut did address her concerns at the 
time she raised them. I agree with investigator that the call-backs, although requested, didnt 
go ahead, but that wouldnt have changed the outcome of the overall complaint here and Im satisfied that Revolut didnt make an error in its overall consideration of Miss Fs losses. So, 
Im not making any compensation award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman