DRN-4036996
The complaint
Mr M complains PayrNet Limited, trading as Pockit, blocked and closed his account. And it 
hasnt returned the withheld funds to him.
Mr M adds the funds derived from government benefits, and not having access to them has 
caused him substantive distress and inconvenience.
What happened
To keep things simple, Ill refer to Pockit in my decision.
In August 2021, Pockit blocked Mr Ms account while it carried out a review. Mr M contacted 
Pockit on several occasions to ask it to release the money saying it derived from his benefits 
 and without it he was unable to meet his rent, financial commitments and buy food for 
himself and his child.
Mr M also told Pockit he suffered with acute mental health issues, and this matter had 
exacerbated it.
Pockit asked Mr M to provide documents to prove his identity, where he was living and the 
source of funds in the account. Mr M says he provided this, but his money wasnt released to 
him.
Pockit closed Mr Ms account in September 2021 and said it had returned Mr Ms funds back 
to source. That is, they were returned to the relevant government department responsible for 
paying Mr M his benefit payments.
Mr M says the money wasnt returned to source. Unhappy with Pockits actions, Mr M 
referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. 
In summary they said:
- Pockit complied with its obligations by blocking and closing the account
- But Mr Ms funds should have been returned to him. So, Pockit should return the 
funds of £733.36 and pay 8% interest from the date they were blocked until theyre 
returned
- Pockits request for information was reasonable, but it should have been more 
specific as to the information it required
- Pockit should compensate Mr M by paying him £150
Pockit did not agree with what our Investigator said. It said it had confirmed the funds were 
returned to source. And that its offer of £150 compensation stills stands, but it wont return 
the funds to Mr M as he will benefit from the funds twice.
Pockit added that if the funds were legitimately from government benefits, Mr M should be 
able to obtain them. Our Investigator responded that they had not seen evidence enough to 
show the funds had been returned to source. 
They said if Pockit could provide enough evidence, they could amend their suggestion of 
what it needs to do to put things right. Pockit then said its treasury team confirmed the funds 
were returned in October 2022.
The complaint was then passed to me to decide. I then sent both parties my provisional 
decision.
My provisional decision 
This is what I told Mr M and Pockit that I was planning to decide, and why: 
Financial business in the UK, like Pockit, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they 
need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at Pockits reasons for blocking and subsequently reviewing Mr Ms account, 
Im satisfied it acted in line with the obligations it must follow.
Pockit is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Pockit and Mr M had to comply with, say that 
it could close the account by giving them at least 60 days notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Im not persuaded that Pockit have shown me enough information, or that it carried out 
enough of an investigation based on the concerns it had. The reasons its given would be 
enough, but this needs to be backed up with stronger evidence. That would mean Pockit 
shouldnt have closed the account with immediate effect. But given Mr M was able to get 
another account relatively quickly, and he had no other funds than those from his benefits in 
the account, I dont think Pockit closing the account in this way caused detriment. So this 
isnt something that Ill be awarding any compensation for.
Having said that, I do think Pockit should either have returned Mr M his benefit money as 
soon as this was brought to its attention  or given him access whilst it carried out its review, 
or when closing the account. Mr M says he provided Pockit with information which showed 
the funds were from his benefits. Unfortunately I havent seen what was given to Pockit in 
relation to this point. But Pockit confirm the funds were returned to the requisite department 
that pay such benefits. So, Im satisfied the funds were Mr Ms benefits.
Given such benefits are paid by the government as income to support individuals, Mr M 
should have been given access to them without undue delay. Pockit say these funds have 
been returned, Mr M says they havent. Our Investigator asked Mr M more recently if he had 
now received the benefits that were returned. Mr M hasnt responded, and a reasonable time 
has passed.
Given this ambiguity, Im currently minded on placing greater weight on Pockits response 
that its treasury team returned the funds in October 2022. I will of course reconsider this 
point if Mr M can show through conclusive evidence, he hasnt had these funds returned to 
him by the benefits agency.Having said that, Pockit say it returned the funds in October 2022, and not in 
September 2021 when it originally said it had. As Mr M has been deprived of these funds for 
much longer than he should have, Ill be directing Pockit to pay 8% simple interest on 
£733.36 from when the account was blocked up until the funds were returned on 
13 October 2022.
Ive closely reviewed a large amount of Mr Ms messages to Pockit. In them he describes in 
detail the significant impact of not having access to these funds were having on him, his 
mental health and family. Pockit at times responded with irrelevant responses about limits on 
Mr Ms account.
So, given Pockit should have returned the benefit funds to Mr M when it first blocked the 
account, Im persuaded its actions have caused considerable distress, inconvenience and 
worry to Mr M. Having carefully considered the mental health impact as well any 
inconvenience caused by having to repeatedly chase the matter with Pockit, Im minded to 
decide Pockit should pay Mr M £500 in compensation.
So to summarise what I think Pockit should do to put things right:
-Pay 8% simple interest from when it blocked Mr Ms account until 13 October 2022 
when it says the funds were returned; unless
-Mr M can show he hasnt received the funds from the benefits agency. In which case, 
Pockit will need to return the funds of £733.36 and pay 8% simple interest on them 
from the account block until settlement
-Pay Mr M £500 for the considerable distress and inconvenience it has caused
The deadline for responses has now passed. Mr M has not responded, whilst Pockit have. 
Pockit says it accepts the compensation of £150 and paying 8% statutory interest  but it will 
not return the funds again. Pockit also said it would get its payment provider to give me a 
receipt to show the £733.36 had been returned. 
A reasonable period has now passed, and I have had no further response to consider. So, it 
follows Ill now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. The reasons for doing so are 
above. But Ill summarise the key points here. 
- Pockit acted in line with obligations it must follow when blocking and reviewing 
Mr Ms account 
- Pockit have not shown me enough evidence to show closing Mr Ms account 
immediately was in line with its terms or that it was fair and reasonable. But as Mr M 
was able to get another account elsewhere quickly, Pockits decision has caused him 
little or no detriment. So I wont be awarding any compensation for this point 
- Im satisfied the funds were from Mr Ms benefits, and that Pockit should have 
returned them to him without undue delay. But as I still havent seen evidence from Mr M to show they had not been returned to him from the relevant benefits 
department, I wont be asking Pockit to refund him the £733.36
- But Pockit should pay 8% simple interest on £733.36 from when the account was 
blocked up until the funds were returned on 13 October 2022
- Pockit should also pay Mr M £500 for the compensation for the significant impact its 
actions had on his mental health and family
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. PayrNet Limited must now put things 
right by paying Mr M £500 compensation and 8% statutory interest as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman